Supported by By The Associated Press JAKARTA, Indonesia — Tens of thousands of Indonesians flocked to presidential campaign rallies Saturday ahead of a final debate between the two candidates, four days before the country heads to the polls. Supporters of President Joko "Jokowi" Widodo filled a stadium in central Jakarta, while the vice presidential running mate of challenger Prabowo Subianto held a rally in a satellite city. Speaking to a crowd of more than 100,000, Widodo emphasized the importance of his big ticket infrastructure policy and education for the country's future development. He said pluralism is non-negotiable in Muslim-majority Indonesia, addressing supporters' fears about the aims of a conservative Islamic movement that backs Subianto. "People in a developing nation must be optimistic because we still have big jobs to do and face big challenges," Widodo said. Widodo and Subianto appeared in the final of five televised debates between the presidential and vice presidential candidates on Saturday evening. About 193 million Indonesians are eligible to vote Wednesday in presidential and legislative elections. Widodo, who narrowly defeated Subianto in the 2014 election, is Indonesia's first president from outside the Jakarta elite. Subianto is an establishment figure from a wealthy family who was a special forces general during the Suharto dictatorship that ended amid social and economic chaos in 1998. Subianto's running mate, Sandiaga Uno, told a crowd of thousands in Tangerang that a government led by them would focus on ensuring Indonesians had good jobs and a lower cost of living. "We will be able to unite the country and make this country very strong," said Uno, a businessman who has spent more than $100 million on the campaign. Subianto supporter Akhirudin Konsi said he wants a "president who will fight for our rights and stand behind people, who will lower prices, especially education, fuel and basic needs." Polls show Widodo has maintained a big lead over Subianto for months, but some analysts say the race is tighter than it appears. Businessman Sahala Panjaitan said he and four family members came to Jakarta for Widodo's rally from Pontianak in West Kalimantan province on the island of Borneo. "We came from across the island because we want to show that Jokowi's support was far greater," Panjaitan said. "He is the nation's best son."

Supported by By The Associated Press JAKARTA, Indonesia — Tens of thousands of Indonesians flocked to presidential campaign rallies Saturday ahead of a final debate between the two candidates, four days before the country heads to the polls. Supporters of President Joko "Jokowi" Widodo filled a stadium in central Jakarta, while the vice presidential running mate of challenger Prabowo Subianto held a rally in a satellite city. Speaking to a crowd of more than 100,000, Widodo emphasized the importance of his big ticket infrastructure policy and education for the country's future development. He said pluralism is non-negotiable in Muslim-majority Indonesia, addressing supporters' fears about the aims of a conservative Islamic movement that backs Subianto. "People in a developing nation must be optimistic because we still have big jobs to do and face big challenges," Widodo said. Widodo and Subianto appeared in the final of five televised debates between the presidential and vice presidential candidates on Saturday evening. About 193 million Indonesians are eligible to vote Wednesday in presidential and legislative elections. Widodo, who narrowly defeated Subianto in the 2014 election, is Indonesia's first president from outside the Jakarta elite. Subianto is an establishment figure from a wealthy family who was a special forces general during the Suharto dictatorship that ended amid social and economic chaos in 1998. Subianto's running mate, Sandiaga Uno, told a crowd of thousands in Tangerang that a government led by them would focus on ensuring Indonesians had good jobs and a lower cost of living. "We will be able to unite the country and make this country very strong," said Uno, a businessman who has spent more than $100 million on the campaign. Subianto supporter Akhirudin Konsi said he wants a "president who will fight for our rights and stand behind people, who will lower prices, especially education, fuel and basic needs." Polls show Widodo has maintained a big lead over Subianto for months, but some analysts say the race is tighter than it appears. Businessman Sahala Panjaitan said he and four family members came to Jakarta for Widodo's rally from Pontianak in West Kalimantan province on the island of Borneo. "We came from across the island because we want to show that Jokowi's support was far greater," Panjaitan said. "He is the nation's best son."Supported by By The Associated Press LAS VEGAS — Democrat Kimi Cole is tired of excuses from presidential candidates who say it's too expensive and time-consuming to visit areas of rural Nevada like her town of Minden, population 3,400. To get there from Washington, D.C., however, would likely mean at least a seven-hour, multi-stop flight to Reno, followed by an hour's drive. It's a unique challenge for Nevada, which sits much farther west than the other two early voting states. To overcome the logistical challenges and ensure those living in rural communities play a key role in vetting candidates, Cole told The Associated Press that she and other Nevada Democrats are setting up a series of virtual visits with the presidential campaigns. They hope to launch the first series of online video conferences with the 2020 contenders within a month. It could be a nationwide model as presidential candidates expand the traditional campaign map to seek support in places where Democrats have struggled, including rural America. "You can drive 300 miles and 400 miles (480 to 640 kilometers) across the state and you may not get in front of very many people," said Cole, chairwoman of the Rural Nevada Democratic Caucus. "I understand all that, and I'm respectful of all that. But doggone it, we have modern technology." Cole said she's working with other organizers to ensure their internet connections can handle the virtual visits. The cyber-campaigning could give presidential candidates a chance to reach thousands of scattered Nevada Democrats whose votes they need to court to gain an advantage in a crowded field. "I know so many people, especially out in rural counties, that feel like they're not being heard, that they're not being represented," Cole said. "This is a step to meet in the middle." The videoconferences allow rural residents to ask about issues like natural resources, water rights and gun rights that may not get as much attention in Las Vegas or Reno. Judy Zabolocky, chairwoman of the Lyon County Democrats who lives in the small community of Dayton, said many Democrats in her county might have to drive an hour or more to Reno if they want to see a candidate. "In the past years, if they're really, really hot on a particular candidate, they will make an attempt to go see them. But most of them don't," she said. Nevada, which votes third in the U.S. on a Democratic presidential nominee, is already farther away than the other early nominating states. In South Carolina, where most areas can be reached within a few hours' drive, candidates have made a point to visit rural areas. Iowa is much more spread out, but almost all the Democratic presidential candidates have made a point of hitting rural areas before its first-in-the-nation caucuses. Cole said organizers are aiming to set up simultaneous video conferences in eight to 10 far-flung locations across Nevada. One after the other, Democratic presidential candidates would hop on a video conference and speak with a couple hundred people gathered in libraries or other community centers hundreds of miles apart. At least six candidates have expressed interest in participating, including Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren and New Jersey Sen. Cory Booker, whose campaigns confirmed they have been in talks with Cole. Andrew Yang, an entrepreneur seeking the presidential nomination, also has floated a novel technological approach to overcome limited time and resources. He told the Carroll Times Herald in Iowa last week that he's working to start campaigning virtually with a 3D hologram. "Rural engagement via video conference strikes me as a great idea and something that candidates should do more of," said David Cohen, who served as Nevada director for Barack Obama's presidential campaign in 2007 and 2008. "Primary candidates need the exposure and Nevadans need to kick the tires. But they've also go to get out there to meet folks in person." Nevada Democrats allocate their delegates based on congressional districts, giving those living in sparsely populated areas a prominent voice. In addition to facilitating the virtual visits, Cole is working to persuade campaigns to visit rural Nevada in person. Booker on Friday will become the first candidate to make that journey, stopping in Cole's town of Minden during a three-day swing through the state. Cole said she hopes it will set a precedent for other 2020 Democratic candidates. "We want to meet you, and we want to hear from you. Ignore us at your own risk," Cole said. ___ Associated Press writers Alexandra Jaffe in Des Moines, Iowa and Meg Kinnard in Charleston, South Carolina, contributed to this report.

Supported by By The Associated Press LAS VEGAS — Democrat Kimi Cole is tired of excuses from presidential candidates who say it's too expensive and time-consuming to visit areas of rural Nevada like her town of Minden, population 3,400. To get there from Washington, D.C., however, would likely mean at least a seven-hour, multi-stop flight to Reno, followed by an hour's drive. It's a unique challenge for Nevada, which sits much farther west than the other two early voting states. To overcome the logistical challenges and ensure those living in rural communities play a key role in vetting candidates, Cole told The Associated Press that she and other Nevada Democrats are setting up a series of virtual visits with the presidential campaigns. They hope to launch the first series of online video conferences with the 2020 contenders within a month. It could be a nationwide model as presidential candidates expand the traditional campaign map to seek support in places where Democrats have struggled, including rural America. "You can drive 300 miles and 400 miles (480 to 640 kilometers) across the state and you may not get in front of very many people," said Cole, chairwoman of the Rural Nevada Democratic Caucus. "I understand all that, and I'm respectful of all that. But doggone it, we have modern technology." Cole said she's working with other organizers to ensure their internet connections can handle the virtual visits. The cyber-campaigning could give presidential candidates a chance to reach thousands of scattered Nevada Democrats whose votes they need to court to gain an advantage in a crowded field. "I know so many people, especially out in rural counties, that feel like they're not being heard, that they're not being represented," Cole said. "This is a step to meet in the middle." The videoconferences allow rural residents to ask about issues like natural resources, water rights and gun rights that may not get as much attention in Las Vegas or Reno. Judy Zabolocky, chairwoman of the Lyon County Democrats who lives in the small community of Dayton, said many Democrats in her county might have to drive an hour or more to Reno if they want to see a candidate. "In the past years, if they're really, really hot on a particular candidate, they will make an attempt to go see them. But most of them don't," she said. Nevada, which votes third in the U.S. on a Democratic presidential nominee, is already farther away than the other early nominating states. In South Carolina, where most areas can be reached within a few hours' drive, candidates have made a point to visit rural areas. Iowa is much more spread out, but almost all the Democratic presidential candidates have made a point of hitting rural areas before its first-in-the-nation caucuses. Cole said organizers are aiming to set up simultaneous video conferences in eight to 10 far-flung locations across Nevada. One after the other, Democratic presidential candidates would hop on a video conference and speak with a couple hundred people gathered in libraries or other community centers hundreds of miles apart. At least six candidates have expressed interest in participating, including Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren and New Jersey Sen. Cory Booker, whose campaigns confirmed they have been in talks with Cole. Andrew Yang, an entrepreneur seeking the presidential nomination, also has floated a novel technological approach to overcome limited time and resources. He told the Carroll Times Herald in Iowa last week that he's working to start campaigning virtually with a 3D hologram. "Rural engagement via video conference strikes me as a great idea and something that candidates should do more of," said David Cohen, who served as Nevada director for Barack Obama's presidential campaign in 2007 and 2008. "Primary candidates need the exposure and Nevadans need to kick the tires. But they've also go to get out there to meet folks in person." Nevada Democrats allocate their delegates based on congressional districts, giving those living in sparsely populated areas a prominent voice. In addition to facilitating the virtual visits, Cole is working to persuade campaigns to visit rural Nevada in person. Booker on Friday will become the first candidate to make that journey, stopping in Cole's town of Minden during a three-day swing through the state. Cole said she hopes it will set a precedent for other 2020 Democratic candidates. "We want to meet you, and we want to hear from you. Ignore us at your own risk," Cole said. ___ Associated Press writers Alexandra Jaffe in Des Moines, Iowa and Meg Kinnard in Charleston, South Carolina, contributed to this report.Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — Former Vice President Joe Biden is expected to join the crowded 2020 Democratic presidential field next week. The decision answers one of the most significant outstanding questions of the early presidential primary season, which has already seen announcements from 18 other Democrats. Biden, 76, would be the most experienced politician in the race, and the second oldest, after 77-year-old Bernie Sanders. His plans were confirmed by three people with knowledge of them. They were not authorized to discuss the plans publicly and spoke to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity. The announcement is expected as early as Wednesday and would cap months of deliberation over his political future. Already, supportive donors have begun trying to raise money on his behalf. "A number of us in San Francisco have begun organizing for Vice President Joe Biden and his nascent organization as he prepares to make his announcement later this month," wrote California-based attorney Thomas McInerney this week in an email obtained by the AP. He continued: "If you are interested and able to get in on the ground floor of his presidential campaign and help the Vice President make a splash when he announces, please consider sending a check now made out to, 'Biden for President.'" The specific launch date and location is unclear. Biden is likely to soon start making visits to early voting states. One person said Biden's advisers are also considering an early event in Charlottesville, Virginia, the site of a deadly clash between white supremacists and counterprotesters in 2017. The location would be intended to draw a contrast between Biden and President Donald Trump, who said there were some "very fine people on both sides" of the violent confrontation. Biden has been particularly outspoken against the rise of white supremacy in the Trump era. One of the most recognizable names in U.S. politics, Biden served for two terms as Barack Obama's vice president after nearly four decades as a senator from Delaware. His high-profile, working-class background and connection to the Obama years would help him enter the race as a front-runner, though he faces questions about his age and whether his more moderate record fits with a party that has become more liberal. With a record in elected office that stretches half a century, Biden faces multiple challenges. Last month he struggled to respond to a complaint from Lucy Flores, a 2014 lieutenant governor nominee in Nevada, that he made her uncomfortable by touching her shoulders and kissing the back of her head before a campaign event. A few other women have made similar claims, though none has alleged sexual misconduct. The incident is just a taste of the harsh vetting from both Democrats and Republicans expected for Biden, who has run for president twice before but never from such a strong political starting point. His first White House bid in 1988 ended after a plagiarism scandal. And in recent weeks, he was repeatedly forced to explain his 1991 decision, as Senate Judiciary Committee chairman, to allow Anita Hill to face questions about her allegations of sexual harassment against Clarence Thomas, then a nominee for the Supreme Court. Biden has since apologized for his role in the hearing. But in the #MeToo era, it's another example of why critics believe he may struggle to catch on with the Democratic primary voters of 2020. On paper, however, he may be well positioned to take on Trump in a general election. The Republican president's allies have privately warned that Biden might be the biggest threat to Trump's reelection given Biden's potential appeal among the white-working class in the Midwest, the same region that helped Trump win the presidency. ___ Associated Press writers Steve Peoples and Jonathan Lemire in New York and Brian Slodysko in Washington contributed to this report. ___ This story has been corrected to show that Biden would be the second oldest Democrat in the race, not the oldest, and that the last name of the California-based attorney who sent an email soliciting donations for Biden is McInerney, not McInerny.

Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — Former Vice President Joe Biden is expected to join the crowded 2020 Democratic presidential field next week. The decision answers one of the most significant outstanding questions of the early presidential primary season, which has already seen announcements from 18 other Democrats. Biden, 76, would be the most experienced politician in the race, and the second oldest, after 77-year-old Bernie Sanders. His plans were confirmed by three people with knowledge of them. They were not authorized to discuss the plans publicly and spoke to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity. The announcement is expected as early as Wednesday and would cap months of deliberation over his political future. Already, supportive donors have begun trying to raise money on his behalf. "A number of us in San Francisco have begun organizing for Vice President Joe Biden and his nascent organization as he prepares to make his announcement later this month," wrote California-based attorney Thomas McInerney this week in an email obtained by the AP. He continued: "If you are interested and able to get in on the ground floor of his presidential campaign and help the Vice President make a splash when he announces, please consider sending a check now made out to, 'Biden for President.'" The specific launch date and location is unclear. Biden is likely to soon start making visits to early voting states. One person said Biden's advisers are also considering an early event in Charlottesville, Virginia, the site of a deadly clash between white supremacists and counterprotesters in 2017. The location would be intended to draw a contrast between Biden and President Donald Trump, who said there were some "very fine people on both sides" of the violent confrontation. Biden has been particularly outspoken against the rise of white supremacy in the Trump era. One of the most recognizable names in U.S. politics, Biden served for two terms as Barack Obama's vice president after nearly four decades as a senator from Delaware. His high-profile, working-class background and connection to the Obama years would help him enter the race as a front-runner, though he faces questions about his age and whether his more moderate record fits with a party that has become more liberal. With a record in elected office that stretches half a century, Biden faces multiple challenges. Last month he struggled to respond to a complaint from Lucy Flores, a 2014 lieutenant governor nominee in Nevada, that he made her uncomfortable by touching her shoulders and kissing the back of her head before a campaign event. A few other women have made similar claims, though none has alleged sexual misconduct. The incident is just a taste of the harsh vetting from both Democrats and Republicans expected for Biden, who has run for president twice before but never from such a strong political starting point. His first White House bid in 1988 ended after a plagiarism scandal. And in recent weeks, he was repeatedly forced to explain his 1991 decision, as Senate Judiciary Committee chairman, to allow Anita Hill to face questions about her allegations of sexual harassment against Clarence Thomas, then a nominee for the Supreme Court. Biden has since apologized for his role in the hearing. But in the #MeToo era, it's another example of why critics believe he may struggle to catch on with the Democratic primary voters of 2020. On paper, however, he may be well positioned to take on Trump in a general election. The Republican president's allies have privately warned that Biden might be the biggest threat to Trump's reelection given Biden's potential appeal among the white-working class in the Midwest, the same region that helped Trump win the presidency. ___ Associated Press writers Steve Peoples and Jonathan Lemire in New York and Brian Slodysko in Washington contributed to this report. ___ This story has been corrected to show that Biden would be the second oldest Democrat in the race, not the oldest, and that the last name of the California-based attorney who sent an email soliciting donations for Biden is McInerney, not McInerny.Supported by The U.S. president needs to keep cooperating closely with Mexico, steer clear of any military action in Venezuela and refrain from bullying his partners and allies in the region. By Michael Shifter Mr. Shifter is an expert on United States-Latin American relations. The 2020 United States presidential campaign is already in full swing in Latin America. Four hot-button issues that helped propel President Trump to the White House in 2016 are already coming into play in his approach with the region, and they are being driven by two parallel electoral strategies: appeals to his political base nationwide on immigration, drugs and trade, and a hard sell directed at South Florida on Cuba and Venezuela. Since he announced his candidacy in 2015, Mr. Trump has treated Mexico as a proxy and scapegoat, particularly on immigration and trade, two issues on which he promised a radical policy shift. Calls to build “the wall” on the United States-Mexico border became shorthand for a tough, aggressive stance on these issues that reliably rallies and excites Mr. Trump’s hard-core supporters. But closing down the border, as the president threatened to do recently, would hurt both countries and cause irreparable damage to what is arguably the United States’ most crucial relationship. On Thursday, under pressure from Republicans in Congress, he backed off that threat, only to issue another one: “We’re going to give them a one-year warning, and if the drugs don’t stop or largely stop, we’re going to put tariffs on Mexico and products, particularly cars.” Until now, President Andrés Manuel López Obrador of Mexico has done a great deal to accommodate Mr. Trump, including working out an updated Nafta agreement and allowing Central American refugees to remain in Mexico while their asylum claims are being adjudicated. The move to close the border will test the limits of Mr. López Obrador’s forbearance. On March 29, the Mexican foreign minister, Marcelo Ebrard, said on Twitter: “Mexico does not act on the basis of threats. We are a great neighbor.” Perhaps just as outrageous, Mr. Trump also announced that he would cut aid to the three countries of Central America’s so-called “Northern Triangle” — Guatemala, El Salvador and Honduras — citing their failure to curb the continuing mass outflow of migrants headed for the United States.  This move has led some to speculate that Mr. Trump is seeking to deepen the crises in these countries, which could result in exploding migration flows and that could pose a “real” national security crisis on the United States-Mexico border, thus justifying the president’s hard-line policies and providing a powerful campaign issue. It remains to be seen whether Mr. Trump even has the authority to cut off congressionally appropriated funding, or if he’ll follow through on these threats. But the announcement understandably left the governments of Guatemala, Honduras and El Salvador bewildered, having done everything to accommodate the United States.  The Guatemalan and Honduran governments sought to curry favor with the Trump administration by moving, or considering moving, their embassies in Israel to Jerusalem. Mr. Trump’s announcement is particularly insulting to El Salvador’s incoming president, Nayib Bukele. On a recent visit to Washington, Mr. Bukele unveiled a much tougher policy on Venezuela and pledged to review the outgoing government’s decision to break with Taiwan and recognize China — both diplomatic wins for the Trump administration. Moreover, there is evidence that United States assistance is helping reduce migration from El Salvador. On the drug question, too, the president is posturing to shore up his political base for the campaign. The Colombian president, Ivan Duque, recently met with Mr. Trump and vowed to pursue a United States-backed strategy to bring down rising levels of coca production. But that wasn’t enough. Mr. Duque was reportedly taken aback when Mr. Trump told reporters, “he (Duque) said how he was going to stop drugs. More drugs are coming out of Colombia right now than before he was president — so he has done nothing for us.” The title of an article that ran in the Colombian weekly magazine, Semana, was telling: “With Friends Like These.” The Colombian president deserves better treatment. Mr. Duque has been the Trump administration’s most steadfast regional partner in pressuring the regime in neighboring Venezuela. His government is struggling to cope with over 1.3 million Venezuelans who have fled to Colombia. As the United States presidential campaign picks up steam, United States-Colombia ties are in danger of becoming “re-narcotized,” which would undermine efforts in recent years to broaden the bilateral agenda. The Trump administration’s approach toward Venezuela and Cuba should be distinguished from issues of nationwide concern such as immigration, drugs, and trade. Still, there is little question that domestic politics, largely focused on South Florida, is a key element helping to shape policy. More ideological factors, advanced less by Mr. Trump himself and more by his national security adviser, John Bolton, and Marco Rubio, the Florida senator, are also relevant.  The Trump administration’s sustained pressure on the Venezuelan dictatorship, carried out in concert with hemispheric and European allies, has rightly provided badly needed support for a democratic transition to a beleaguered Venezuela. But the United States’ agenda in Venezuela is tightly linked to the administration’s pursuit of regime change in Cuba, as Mr. Bolton has repeatedly made clear. Though in Latin America there is no love lost for the Cuban regime, the region is more cautious about Cuba than Venezuela. Most Latin Americans consider the past six decades of United States policy toward Cuba (aside from the two-year opening under Obama) to be a failure and strongly oppose any new threats and punishments. To be sure, infelicitous phrases by Mr. Trump and other senior administration officials like, “All options are on the table,” and, “I wish Nicolás Maduro and his top advisers a long, quiet retirement, living on a nice beach somewhere,” may draw cheers, help deliver votes, and generate money in a critical swing state in 2020. But they also evoke possible military action and, as a result, risk weakening or dividing the broad coalition that has been forged on Venezuela.  To preserve this coalition — a major asset for the United States’ Venezuela policy — the Trump administration needs to keep its posturing for electoral purposes in check. Invoking the “socialism” boogeyman in Venezuela as a way to attack the Democratic Party for its health care and New Green Deal proposals shows how the hemisphere’s worst crisis could be used in the presidential campaign. It would be naïve to call for a moratorium on theatrics as November 2020 looms. Playing on domestic politics with Latin American issues may work for President Trump as he pursues a second term. Still, it is crucial not to completely lose sight of the national interest, which means investing wisely in Central America and cooperating closely with Mexico. Mr. Trump needs to stick with the broad coalition on Venezuela, eschew any suggestion of military action there and any reference to regime change in Cuba.  These issues should command bipartisan support. If not handled well, they could have consequences for the United States policy in the region for decades to come.  Michael Shifter is the president of the inter-American Dialogue, a Washington-based think tank focused on Western Hemisphere affairs. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported by The U.S. president needs to keep cooperating closely with Mexico, steer clear of any military action in Venezuela and refrain from bullying his partners and allies in the region. By Michael Shifter Mr. Shifter is an expert on United States-Latin American relations. The 2020 United States presidential campaign is already in full swing in Latin America. Four hot-button issues that helped propel President Trump to the White House in 2016 are already coming into play in his approach with the region, and they are being driven by two parallel electoral strategies: appeals to his political base nationwide on immigration, drugs and trade, and a hard sell directed at South Florida on Cuba and Venezuela. Since he announced his candidacy in 2015, Mr. Trump has treated Mexico as a proxy and scapegoat, particularly on immigration and trade, two issues on which he promised a radical policy shift. Calls to build “the wall” on the United States-Mexico border became shorthand for a tough, aggressive stance on these issues that reliably rallies and excites Mr. Trump’s hard-core supporters. But closing down the border, as the president threatened to do recently, would hurt both countries and cause irreparable damage to what is arguably the United States’ most crucial relationship. On Thursday, under pressure from Republicans in Congress, he backed off that threat, only to issue another one: “We’re going to give them a one-year warning, and if the drugs don’t stop or largely stop, we’re going to put tariffs on Mexico and products, particularly cars.” Until now, President Andrés Manuel López Obrador of Mexico has done a great deal to accommodate Mr. Trump, including working out an updated Nafta agreement and allowing Central American refugees to remain in Mexico while their asylum claims are being adjudicated. The move to close the border will test the limits of Mr. López Obrador’s forbearance. On March 29, the Mexican foreign minister, Marcelo Ebrard, said on Twitter: “Mexico does not act on the basis of threats. We are a great neighbor.” Perhaps just as outrageous, Mr. Trump also announced that he would cut aid to the three countries of Central America’s so-called “Northern Triangle” — Guatemala, El Salvador and Honduras — citing their failure to curb the continuing mass outflow of migrants headed for the United States.  This move has led some to speculate that Mr. Trump is seeking to deepen the crises in these countries, which could result in exploding migration flows and that could pose a “real” national security crisis on the United States-Mexico border, thus justifying the president’s hard-line policies and providing a powerful campaign issue. It remains to be seen whether Mr. Trump even has the authority to cut off congressionally appropriated funding, or if he’ll follow through on these threats. But the announcement understandably left the governments of Guatemala, Honduras and El Salvador bewildered, having done everything to accommodate the United States.  The Guatemalan and Honduran governments sought to curry favor with the Trump administration by moving, or considering moving, their embassies in Israel to Jerusalem. Mr. Trump’s announcement is particularly insulting to El Salvador’s incoming president, Nayib Bukele. On a recent visit to Washington, Mr. Bukele unveiled a much tougher policy on Venezuela and pledged to review the outgoing government’s decision to break with Taiwan and recognize China — both diplomatic wins for the Trump administration. Moreover, there is evidence that United States assistance is helping reduce migration from El Salvador. On the drug question, too, the president is posturing to shore up his political base for the campaign. The Colombian president, Ivan Duque, recently met with Mr. Trump and vowed to pursue a United States-backed strategy to bring down rising levels of coca production. But that wasn’t enough. Mr. Duque was reportedly taken aback when Mr. Trump told reporters, “he (Duque) said how he was going to stop drugs. More drugs are coming out of Colombia right now than before he was president — so he has done nothing for us.” The title of an article that ran in the Colombian weekly magazine, Semana, was telling: “With Friends Like These.” The Colombian president deserves better treatment. Mr. Duque has been the Trump administration’s most steadfast regional partner in pressuring the regime in neighboring Venezuela. His government is struggling to cope with over 1.3 million Venezuelans who have fled to Colombia. As the United States presidential campaign picks up steam, United States-Colombia ties are in danger of becoming “re-narcotized,” which would undermine efforts in recent years to broaden the bilateral agenda. The Trump administration’s approach toward Venezuela and Cuba should be distinguished from issues of nationwide concern such as immigration, drugs, and trade. Still, there is little question that domestic politics, largely focused on South Florida, is a key element helping to shape policy. More ideological factors, advanced less by Mr. Trump himself and more by his national security adviser, John Bolton, and Marco Rubio, the Florida senator, are also relevant.  The Trump administration’s sustained pressure on the Venezuelan dictatorship, carried out in concert with hemispheric and European allies, has rightly provided badly needed support for a democratic transition to a beleaguered Venezuela. But the United States’ agenda in Venezuela is tightly linked to the administration’s pursuit of regime change in Cuba, as Mr. Bolton has repeatedly made clear. Though in Latin America there is no love lost for the Cuban regime, the region is more cautious about Cuba than Venezuela. Most Latin Americans consider the past six decades of United States policy toward Cuba (aside from the two-year opening under Obama) to be a failure and strongly oppose any new threats and punishments. To be sure, infelicitous phrases by Mr. Trump and other senior administration officials like, “All options are on the table,” and, “I wish Nicolás Maduro and his top advisers a long, quiet retirement, living on a nice beach somewhere,” may draw cheers, help deliver votes, and generate money in a critical swing state in 2020. But they also evoke possible military action and, as a result, risk weakening or dividing the broad coalition that has been forged on Venezuela.  To preserve this coalition — a major asset for the United States’ Venezuela policy — the Trump administration needs to keep its posturing for electoral purposes in check. Invoking the “socialism” boogeyman in Venezuela as a way to attack the Democratic Party for its health care and New Green Deal proposals shows how the hemisphere’s worst crisis could be used in the presidential campaign. It would be naïve to call for a moratorium on theatrics as November 2020 looms. Playing on domestic politics with Latin American issues may work for President Trump as he pursues a second term. Still, it is crucial not to completely lose sight of the national interest, which means investing wisely in Central America and cooperating closely with Mexico. Mr. Trump needs to stick with the broad coalition on Venezuela, eschew any suggestion of military action there and any reference to regime change in Cuba.  These issues should command bipartisan support. If not handled well, they could have consequences for the United States policy in the region for decades to come.  Michael Shifter is the president of the inter-American Dialogue, a Washington-based think tank focused on Western Hemisphere affairs. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Supported by By Alexander Burns and Shane Goldmacher Former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. has begun accepting financial donations for a 2020 presidential campaign, an unambiguous sign that he intends to begin his challenge to President Trump within days. Several Democratic donors and party fund-raisers received emails in recent days encouraging them to write sizable checks to support Mr. Biden’s planned candidacy, and to mail them to a Democratic consulting firm in Northern Virginia. Two fund-raising solicitations, circulated by Democratic donors in California and Pennsylvania, said Mr. Biden’s campaign committee would be called “Biden for President.” The pre-emptive push for large donations stands in sharp contrast to the effort many Democratic candidates have made to court small donors as a sign of their appeal to the party’s grass-roots base. In the emails reviewed by The New York Times, Mr. Biden’s allies acknowledged he was not yet able to accept online contributions because he has not become a candidate. He is expected to announce his campaign next week. [Who’s in? Who’s out? Keep up with the 2020 field with our candidate tracker.] Thomas M. McInerney, an employment litigator in San Francisco, wrote in one solicitation on Wednesday that he was part of a group of Democratic donors who think Mr. Biden “would be a very strong candidate well-positioned to take on Trump.” “We are trying to assess what kind of hard financial commitments we would have on day one, in support of his presidential candidacy,” Mr. McInerney wrote. He urged recipients to help Mr. Biden “make a splash” when he announces. Mr. McInerney confirmed in an interview that he was supportive of Mr. Biden and had spoken with a Biden adviser about stirring early financial support for him in the Bay Area. “He’s been, I think, a strong progressive on most if not all issues, and he would be able to take the fight to Trump,” Mr. McInerney said of Mr. Biden. The donation drive by Mr. Biden’s allies is the latest indication that he expects to rely on the backing of some of the Democratic Party’s wealthiest contributors, many of whom have held off on donating to other contenders in anticipation of Mr. Biden’s entry. The pursuit of big donors could be politically risky for Mr. Biden in a Democratic primary already infused with outrage about the influence of the wealthy in politics. Some of Mr. Biden’s rivals, including Senators Bernie Sanders of Vermont and Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, have effectively sworn off high-dollar fund-raising altogether. [Keep track of the latest politics news with our newsletter.] In an email to Democratic donors in the Philadelphia area earlier this week, David Cohen, a former party operative who is now a Comcast executive, outlined plans for a major fund-raising event in the city shortly after Mr. Biden’s announcement, likely in the middle of next week, and encouraged potential attendees to mail their checks to Mr. Biden’s operation even before he joins the race. Mr. Cohen’s email suggested that potential donors should raise $14,000 each, in increments of $2,800, the maximum contribution allowed, and listed a number of party leaders planning to support Mr. Biden, including former Gov. Ed Rendell of Pennsylvania and former Mayor Michael Nutter of Philadelphia. Plans for a Philadelphia fund-raising event were first reported by the radio station WHYY. A spokesman for Mr. Biden declined to comment on the fund-raising activity or the timing of his entry into the race. Mr. Cohen did not respond to an email, but a spokeswoman for Comcast said he declined to comment. Stephen A. Cozen, a Philadelphia-based lawyer and a longtime friend of Mr. Biden, confirmed he was helping to organize the Philadelphia-based event next week, laying the groundwork for what Mr. Biden’s backers hope will be a significant financial show of force. “You can actually start raising money,” Mr. Cozen said, adding that they hoped but were not certain that Mr. Biden would attend the fund-raising gathering. Both Mr. McInerney and Mr. Cohen assured donors in their emails that their checks would be returned if Mr. Biden did not ultimately join the presidential race. Mr. Cozen, however, said he had no doubt of Mr. Biden’s plans. “He’s going to run,” Mr. Cozen said.    

Supported by By Alexander Burns and Shane Goldmacher Former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. has begun accepting financial donations for a 2020 presidential campaign, an unambiguous sign that he intends to begin his challenge to President Trump within days. Several Democratic donors and party fund-raisers received emails in recent days encouraging them to write sizable checks to support Mr. Biden’s planned candidacy, and to mail them to a Democratic consulting firm in Northern Virginia. Two fund-raising solicitations, circulated by Democratic donors in California and Pennsylvania, said Mr. Biden’s campaign committee would be called “Biden for President.” The pre-emptive push for large donations stands in sharp contrast to the effort many Democratic candidates have made to court small donors as a sign of their appeal to the party’s grass-roots base. In the emails reviewed by The New York Times, Mr. Biden’s allies acknowledged he was not yet able to accept online contributions because he has not become a candidate. He is expected to announce his campaign next week. [Who’s in? Who’s out? Keep up with the 2020 field with our candidate tracker.] Thomas M. McInerney, an employment litigator in San Francisco, wrote in one solicitation on Wednesday that he was part of a group of Democratic donors who think Mr. Biden “would be a very strong candidate well-positioned to take on Trump.” “We are trying to assess what kind of hard financial commitments we would have on day one, in support of his presidential candidacy,” Mr. McInerney wrote. He urged recipients to help Mr. Biden “make a splash” when he announces. Mr. McInerney confirmed in an interview that he was supportive of Mr. Biden and had spoken with a Biden adviser about stirring early financial support for him in the Bay Area. “He’s been, I think, a strong progressive on most if not all issues, and he would be able to take the fight to Trump,” Mr. McInerney said of Mr. Biden. The donation drive by Mr. Biden’s allies is the latest indication that he expects to rely on the backing of some of the Democratic Party’s wealthiest contributors, many of whom have held off on donating to other contenders in anticipation of Mr. Biden’s entry. The pursuit of big donors could be politically risky for Mr. Biden in a Democratic primary already infused with outrage about the influence of the wealthy in politics. Some of Mr. Biden’s rivals, including Senators Bernie Sanders of Vermont and Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, have effectively sworn off high-dollar fund-raising altogether. [Keep track of the latest politics news with our newsletter.] In an email to Democratic donors in the Philadelphia area earlier this week, David Cohen, a former party operative who is now a Comcast executive, outlined plans for a major fund-raising event in the city shortly after Mr. Biden’s announcement, likely in the middle of next week, and encouraged potential attendees to mail their checks to Mr. Biden’s operation even before he joins the race. Mr. Cohen’s email suggested that potential donors should raise $14,000 each, in increments of $2,800, the maximum contribution allowed, and listed a number of party leaders planning to support Mr. Biden, including former Gov. Ed Rendell of Pennsylvania and former Mayor Michael Nutter of Philadelphia. Plans for a Philadelphia fund-raising event were first reported by the radio station WHYY. A spokesman for Mr. Biden declined to comment on the fund-raising activity or the timing of his entry into the race. Mr. Cohen did not respond to an email, but a spokeswoman for Comcast said he declined to comment. Stephen A. Cozen, a Philadelphia-based lawyer and a longtime friend of Mr. Biden, confirmed he was helping to organize the Philadelphia-based event next week, laying the groundwork for what Mr. Biden’s backers hope will be a significant financial show of force. “You can actually start raising money,” Mr. Cozen said, adding that they hoped but were not certain that Mr. Biden would attend the fund-raising gathering. Both Mr. McInerney and Mr. Cohen assured donors in their emails that their checks would be returned if Mr. Biden did not ultimately join the presidential race. Mr. Cozen, however, said he had no doubt of Mr. Biden’s plans. “He’s going to run,” Mr. Cozen said.    Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — U.S. Senator Elizabeth Warren has hired the largest campaign staff in the run-up to the 2020 presidential election, quickly building a payroll that far exceeds her Democratic rivals, according to disclosures filed with the Federal Elections Commission. Warren spent more than $1 million on payroll in the first quarter of 2019, more than double that of rivals such as U.S. Senators Bernie Sanders and Kamala Harris, the two who raised the most money in the first quarter. The total does not include other payroll-related expenses. She spent about $566,000 on payroll taxes and $114,000 on health insurance.  Warren has said she intends to build a "grassroots" campaign. She has sworn off expensive fundraisers and is relying almost entirely on online donations to fund her campaign.  Building a large campaign staff can create challenges. If a campaign begins to run short on cash, it is often more difficult to cut back on staff compared to trimming other expenses, such as advertising. Warren had 161 employees already on her staff by the end of the first quarter, according to the disclosures she filed. About half of the staff, her campaign said, are positioned in early primary states of Iowa, New Hampshire, South Carolina and Nevada. By comparison, Sanders' campaign had 86 people on its payroll by the end of the quarter, during which he spent $417,209 on salaries. Harris spent $477,108 on salaries on the 44 people she had on her payroll in the first quarter.  Warren has also outpaced Republican President Donald Trump's campaign hiring. Trump spent about $408,000 on staff in the first quarter, although the Republican National Committee is already working to help his reelection and has hundreds on staff. Warren isn't without cash to pay her employees - she raised $6 million in the first quarter and had an additional $10.4 million from her Senate campaign. She finished the quarter with $11 million in cash. However, her campaign disclosures revealed that she may be making tradeoffs. Warren spent about $905,000 on online advertising. Sanders spent about $1.6 million and Harris $1 million.  (Reporting by Ginger Gibson; Additional reporting by Amanda Becker and Grant Smith; Editing by Paul Tait)

Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — U.S. Senator Elizabeth Warren has hired the largest campaign staff in the run-up to the 2020 presidential election, quickly building a payroll that far exceeds her Democratic rivals, according to disclosures filed with the Federal Elections Commission. Warren spent more than $1 million on payroll in the first quarter of 2019, more than double that of rivals such as U.S. Senators Bernie Sanders and Kamala Harris, the two who raised the most money in the first quarter. The total does not include other payroll-related expenses. She spent about $566,000 on payroll taxes and $114,000 on health insurance.  Warren has said she intends to build a "grassroots" campaign. She has sworn off expensive fundraisers and is relying almost entirely on online donations to fund her campaign.  Building a large campaign staff can create challenges. If a campaign begins to run short on cash, it is often more difficult to cut back on staff compared to trimming other expenses, such as advertising. Warren had 161 employees already on her staff by the end of the first quarter, according to the disclosures she filed. About half of the staff, her campaign said, are positioned in early primary states of Iowa, New Hampshire, South Carolina and Nevada. By comparison, Sanders' campaign had 86 people on its payroll by the end of the quarter, during which he spent $417,209 on salaries. Harris spent $477,108 on salaries on the 44 people she had on her payroll in the first quarter.  Warren has also outpaced Republican President Donald Trump's campaign hiring. Trump spent about $408,000 on staff in the first quarter, although the Republican National Committee is already working to help his reelection and has hundreds on staff. Warren isn't without cash to pay her employees - she raised $6 million in the first quarter and had an additional $10.4 million from her Senate campaign. She finished the quarter with $11 million in cash. However, her campaign disclosures revealed that she may be making tradeoffs. Warren spent about $905,000 on online advertising. Sanders spent about $1.6 million and Harris $1 million.  (Reporting by Ginger Gibson; Additional reporting by Amanda Becker and Grant Smith; Editing by Paul Tait)Supported by By Matt Flegenheimer and Jonathan Martin [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join our conversation about the 2020 presidential race.] BURLINGTON, Iowa — Beto O’Rourke, the 46-year-old former Texas congressman whose near-miss Senate run last year propelled him to Democratic stardom, announced on Thursday that he was running for president, betting that a broad message of national unity and generational change will lift him above a slate of committed progressives offering big-ticket policy ideas. His decision jolts an early election season already stuffed with contenders, adding to the mix a relentless campaigner with a small-dollar fund-raising army, the performative instincts of a former punk rocker and a pro-immigrant vision to counteract President Trump’s. Yet Mr. O’Rourke also comes to the 2020 race with few notable legislative accomplishments after three terms in the House representing El Paso. And in a primary so far defined by bedrock policy positions, like the economic agendas of Senators Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren, Mr. O’Rourke enters without a signature proposal that might serve as the ideological anchor of his bid. “This moment of peril produces perhaps the greatest moment of promise for this country and for everyone inside it,’’ Mr. O’Rourke said in a video announcing his candidacy, released hours before a three-day tour of Iowa began on Thursday morning. Shortly after 8 a.m. Thursday, Mr. O’Rourke stepped into a coffee shop on Main Street in Keokuk and began introducing himself to a state he had never visited before. “Hey, nice to meet you. Beto O’Rourke,” he said, squeezing between news cameras and caffeine-seekers. “Good morning, good morning to you,” he said to people in the southeastern Iowa town of Keokuk — a county where Donald J. Trump beat Hillary Clinton by 16 percentage points in 2016 but where former President Barack Obama won four years earlier. Soon, he was standing on a chair taking questions, perched between paintings of flowers and musical instruments. “This is democracy,” he said. Mr. O’Rourke was planning on spending much of the next three days in similar communities across eastern Iowa, the historically Democratic part of the state where so many voters swung to Mr. Trump three years ago. Keeping with the do-it-yourself spirit of his Senate race, the new candidate did not release a full schedule of stops. Details of his appearances spread by social media and word of mouth. His Democratic rivals quickly sent notice, however, that they were not going to let his long-anticipated launch go unimpeded. Former Mayor Julian Castro of San Antonio released a list of 30 new endorsements from Texas, including one state lawmaker from Mr. O’Rourke’s hometown. Mr. Sanders of Vermont, Ms. Warren of Massachusetts and Senator Kamala Harris of California emailed fund-raising appeals noting Mr. O’Rourke’s entry into the race — with Ms. Harris citing the historic diversity in the field, which she represents. And President Trump also swiftly weighed in, using a photo opportunity in the Oval Office to ridicule Mr. O’Rourke’s gesticulations. “I think he’s got a lot of hand movement,’’ the president said. “I’ve never seen so much hand movement. I said, ‘Is he crazy or is that just the way he acts?’’’ Unlike many of his 14 Democratic rivals for the nomination, Mr. O’Rourke has spent little time until recently even considering a White House run, let alone building an operation that would sustain one. Some voters and activists have also wondered aloud if a white man is the best fit for this Democratic moment, particularly after midterm successes powered often by female and nonwhite candidates. [Check out our tracker of the 2020 Democratic candidate field.] With Mr. O’Rourke’s entry, the primary field appears close to settled more than 10 months before the Iowa caucuses; former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., the only holdout among the expected major candidates, seems poised to join the race next month. Early polls have shown Mr. Biden and Mr. Sanders on top. Mr. O’Rourke, three decades their junior, hopes to supply an unsubtle contrast, particularly given Mr. Sanders’s success with the kinds of young voters who flocked to Mr. O’Rourke in Texas. Advisers to other Democratic candidates have watched Mr. O’Rourke’s plans with concern, recognizing that the kind of face-to-face politicking that fueled his campaign to unseat Senator Ted Cruz in Texas should suit him well in early voting states like Iowa and New Hampshire, where voters crave personal interaction with candidates. Mr. O’Rourke made his town hall forums the centerpiece of his Senate candidacy, turning the race into a national cause — the underdog liberal running in a famously red state — trailed by a documentary film crew and endorsed by celebrities from Beyoncé to Willie Nelson. He made a point of visiting each of the 254 counties in Texas, helping him bulldoze fund-raising records and come within about 200,000 votes of Mr. Cruz on Election Day. The Democratic presidential field is more crowded than usual. Here’s how it compares with past cycles. [Where Beto O’Rourke stands on the issues] Mr. O’Rourke also attracted many fans outside the state, drawing them into a perpetual social media live-stream capturing not only his political events but unscripted moments on the road: late-night burger stops, skateboarding in a parking lot, reminiscing with a former bandmate behind the wheel. For many politically obsessed liberals, his inevitably upbeat musings offered a welcome online antidote to Mr. Trump’s Twitter rampaging. On the eve of his announcement, Vanity Fair released a cover story on Mr. O’Rourke with photographs by Annie Leibovitz. Yet his boast in that interview — “I’m just born to do this” — and off-the-cuff comments he made Thursday about only sporadically helping his wife raise their children, quickly drew criticism and illustrated the peril of taking his unplugged style to the crucible of a presidential race. Admirers, however, believe it is this ability to generate his own narrative orbit that could separate him from his peers. “In a political environment where it’s so hard to break through, he has an ability to pique people’s interest and to drive a narrative on his own,” said Jesse Ferguson, a Democratic strategist who worked for Mrs. Clinton in 2016, and is not advising any candidate in 2020. “He isn’t just shadowboxing with the president’s Twitter handle.” On one central issue, though, Mr. Trump has provided Mr. O’Rourke with a useful foil. This year, when the president traveled to El Paso to press for a wall on the border with Mexico, the two headlined dueling rallies. Subsequently, he even said he would support tearing down the existing border wall in the El Paso area, a declaration that Republicans have suggested they will use against him should he make the general election. But the Democratic primary could present unique challenges to Mr. O’Rourke. It is an open question whether he will be able to scale up his skeletal organization and hand over control to the sort of political professionals he largely shunned in his Senate race. The lead-up to Mr. O’Rourke’s official announcement Thursday has been highly improvisational, in part because he was personally directing much of the planning. On Wednesday night, he was texting supporters in early nominating states to share his plans and to tell them he would have advisers get in touch with them about his schedule. And for weeks, he has been meeting and talking on the telephone with a number of Democratic strategists to gauge their interest in working for him, finding encouragement but also a reluctance to move to El Paso, where he is planning to base his operations. Mr. O’Rourke discussed the campaign manager job for 90 minutes with one strategist, Jennifer O’Malley Dillon, at the South by Southwest festival in Austin, but even on the eve of his announcement it was uncertain who would be at the helm of his organization. Yet he enjoys the support of many of Mr. Obama’s aides, some tacitly and others more full-throated, and he has relied on advice from a number of Mr. Obama’s strategists, including the 2008 campaign manager, David Plouffe. (Mr. Plouffe is not, however, planning to formally participate in the race on behalf of any candidate.) But unlike Mr. Obama, who ran in a year when the Iraq war was the single overriding policy issue in the Democratic race, Mr. O’Rourke is seeking the presidency at a moment his party is lurching left on issues across the board. He will be immediately under pressure to expand upon the sometimes-vague liberalism that has colored his public life. Already, allies of Mr. Sanders in particular have questioned Mr. O’Rourke’s commitment to progressive priorities. (Mr. O’Rourke has declined to call himself a progressive, saying he was “not big on labels.”) In 2016, he supported a centrist challenger to Nancy Pelosi to lead House Democrats. In 2018, he frustrated Texas activists by refusing to endorse Gina Ortiz Jones, a prized Democratic recruit for a House seat, because she was facing Mr. O’Rourke’s Republican friend, Representative Will Hurd, who eventually won by fewer than 1,000 votes. Mr. O’Rourke should have little trouble pulling in enough money to get a presidential campaign off the ground, though it is possible that some of his fund-raising success in 2018 owed to his opponent, Mr. Cruz, whom liberals love to loathe. Some in the party have questioned whether a Senate-race-losing candidate  should even be running for president so soon. Senate Democrats aggressively lobbied him to take on Texas’s other Republican senator, John Cornyn, who is up for re-election next year, even dispatching senior party officials to El Paso to make the case. In the months since his defeat, Mr. O’Rourke himself seemed to be casting about for answers, discussing a possible run with advisers but appearing genuinely conflicted — seeking clarity at one point by making a solo road trip to meet Americans in unrehearsed settings. On Thursday, any lingering apprehension was well concealed. “This is the moment,” he said, standing atop a coffeehouse counter in Burlington, hands flying, “for the leadership of the indispensable country.” He left little doubt which leader he had in mind for the top job.   

Supported by By Matt Flegenheimer and Jonathan Martin [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join our conversation about the 2020 presidential race.] BURLINGTON, Iowa — Beto O’Rourke, the 46-year-old former Texas congressman whose near-miss Senate run last year propelled him to Democratic stardom, announced on Thursday that he was running for president, betting that a broad message of national unity and generational change will lift him above a slate of committed progressives offering big-ticket policy ideas. His decision jolts an early election season already stuffed with contenders, adding to the mix a relentless campaigner with a small-dollar fund-raising army, the performative instincts of a former punk rocker and a pro-immigrant vision to counteract President Trump’s. Yet Mr. O’Rourke also comes to the 2020 race with few notable legislative accomplishments after three terms in the House representing El Paso. And in a primary so far defined by bedrock policy positions, like the economic agendas of Senators Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren, Mr. O’Rourke enters without a signature proposal that might serve as the ideological anchor of his bid. “This moment of peril produces perhaps the greatest moment of promise for this country and for everyone inside it,’’ Mr. O’Rourke said in a video announcing his candidacy, released hours before a three-day tour of Iowa began on Thursday morning. Shortly after 8 a.m. Thursday, Mr. O’Rourke stepped into a coffee shop on Main Street in Keokuk and began introducing himself to a state he had never visited before. “Hey, nice to meet you. Beto O’Rourke,” he said, squeezing between news cameras and caffeine-seekers. “Good morning, good morning to you,” he said to people in the southeastern Iowa town of Keokuk — a county where Donald J. Trump beat Hillary Clinton by 16 percentage points in 2016 but where former President Barack Obama won four years earlier. Soon, he was standing on a chair taking questions, perched between paintings of flowers and musical instruments. “This is democracy,” he said. Mr. O’Rourke was planning on spending much of the next three days in similar communities across eastern Iowa, the historically Democratic part of the state where so many voters swung to Mr. Trump three years ago. Keeping with the do-it-yourself spirit of his Senate race, the new candidate did not release a full schedule of stops. Details of his appearances spread by social media and word of mouth. His Democratic rivals quickly sent notice, however, that they were not going to let his long-anticipated launch go unimpeded. Former Mayor Julian Castro of San Antonio released a list of 30 new endorsements from Texas, including one state lawmaker from Mr. O’Rourke’s hometown. Mr. Sanders of Vermont, Ms. Warren of Massachusetts and Senator Kamala Harris of California emailed fund-raising appeals noting Mr. O’Rourke’s entry into the race — with Ms. Harris citing the historic diversity in the field, which she represents. And President Trump also swiftly weighed in, using a photo opportunity in the Oval Office to ridicule Mr. O’Rourke’s gesticulations. “I think he’s got a lot of hand movement,’’ the president said. “I’ve never seen so much hand movement. I said, ‘Is he crazy or is that just the way he acts?’’’ Unlike many of his 14 Democratic rivals for the nomination, Mr. O’Rourke has spent little time until recently even considering a White House run, let alone building an operation that would sustain one. Some voters and activists have also wondered aloud if a white man is the best fit for this Democratic moment, particularly after midterm successes powered often by female and nonwhite candidates. [Check out our tracker of the 2020 Democratic candidate field.] With Mr. O’Rourke’s entry, the primary field appears close to settled more than 10 months before the Iowa caucuses; former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., the only holdout among the expected major candidates, seems poised to join the race next month. Early polls have shown Mr. Biden and Mr. Sanders on top. Mr. O’Rourke, three decades their junior, hopes to supply an unsubtle contrast, particularly given Mr. Sanders’s success with the kinds of young voters who flocked to Mr. O’Rourke in Texas. Advisers to other Democratic candidates have watched Mr. O’Rourke’s plans with concern, recognizing that the kind of face-to-face politicking that fueled his campaign to unseat Senator Ted Cruz in Texas should suit him well in early voting states like Iowa and New Hampshire, where voters crave personal interaction with candidates. Mr. O’Rourke made his town hall forums the centerpiece of his Senate candidacy, turning the race into a national cause — the underdog liberal running in a famously red state — trailed by a documentary film crew and endorsed by celebrities from Beyoncé to Willie Nelson. He made a point of visiting each of the 254 counties in Texas, helping him bulldoze fund-raising records and come within about 200,000 votes of Mr. Cruz on Election Day. The Democratic presidential field is more crowded than usual. Here’s how it compares with past cycles. [Where Beto O’Rourke stands on the issues] Mr. O’Rourke also attracted many fans outside the state, drawing them into a perpetual social media live-stream capturing not only his political events but unscripted moments on the road: late-night burger stops, skateboarding in a parking lot, reminiscing with a former bandmate behind the wheel. For many politically obsessed liberals, his inevitably upbeat musings offered a welcome online antidote to Mr. Trump’s Twitter rampaging. On the eve of his announcement, Vanity Fair released a cover story on Mr. O’Rourke with photographs by Annie Leibovitz. Yet his boast in that interview — “I’m just born to do this” — and off-the-cuff comments he made Thursday about only sporadically helping his wife raise their children, quickly drew criticism and illustrated the peril of taking his unplugged style to the crucible of a presidential race. Admirers, however, believe it is this ability to generate his own narrative orbit that could separate him from his peers. “In a political environment where it’s so hard to break through, he has an ability to pique people’s interest and to drive a narrative on his own,” said Jesse Ferguson, a Democratic strategist who worked for Mrs. Clinton in 2016, and is not advising any candidate in 2020. “He isn’t just shadowboxing with the president’s Twitter handle.” On one central issue, though, Mr. Trump has provided Mr. O’Rourke with a useful foil. This year, when the president traveled to El Paso to press for a wall on the border with Mexico, the two headlined dueling rallies. Subsequently, he even said he would support tearing down the existing border wall in the El Paso area, a declaration that Republicans have suggested they will use against him should he make the general election. But the Democratic primary could present unique challenges to Mr. O’Rourke. It is an open question whether he will be able to scale up his skeletal organization and hand over control to the sort of political professionals he largely shunned in his Senate race. The lead-up to Mr. O’Rourke’s official announcement Thursday has been highly improvisational, in part because he was personally directing much of the planning. On Wednesday night, he was texting supporters in early nominating states to share his plans and to tell them he would have advisers get in touch with them about his schedule. And for weeks, he has been meeting and talking on the telephone with a number of Democratic strategists to gauge their interest in working for him, finding encouragement but also a reluctance to move to El Paso, where he is planning to base his operations. Mr. O’Rourke discussed the campaign manager job for 90 minutes with one strategist, Jennifer O’Malley Dillon, at the South by Southwest festival in Austin, but even on the eve of his announcement it was uncertain who would be at the helm of his organization. Yet he enjoys the support of many of Mr. Obama’s aides, some tacitly and others more full-throated, and he has relied on advice from a number of Mr. Obama’s strategists, including the 2008 campaign manager, David Plouffe. (Mr. Plouffe is not, however, planning to formally participate in the race on behalf of any candidate.) But unlike Mr. Obama, who ran in a year when the Iraq war was the single overriding policy issue in the Democratic race, Mr. O’Rourke is seeking the presidency at a moment his party is lurching left on issues across the board. He will be immediately under pressure to expand upon the sometimes-vague liberalism that has colored his public life. Already, allies of Mr. Sanders in particular have questioned Mr. O’Rourke’s commitment to progressive priorities. (Mr. O’Rourke has declined to call himself a progressive, saying he was “not big on labels.”) In 2016, he supported a centrist challenger to Nancy Pelosi to lead House Democrats. In 2018, he frustrated Texas activists by refusing to endorse Gina Ortiz Jones, a prized Democratic recruit for a House seat, because she was facing Mr. O’Rourke’s Republican friend, Representative Will Hurd, who eventually won by fewer than 1,000 votes. Mr. O’Rourke should have little trouble pulling in enough money to get a presidential campaign off the ground, though it is possible that some of his fund-raising success in 2018 owed to his opponent, Mr. Cruz, whom liberals love to loathe. Some in the party have questioned whether a Senate-race-losing candidate  should even be running for president so soon. Senate Democrats aggressively lobbied him to take on Texas’s other Republican senator, John Cornyn, who is up for re-election next year, even dispatching senior party officials to El Paso to make the case. In the months since his defeat, Mr. O’Rourke himself seemed to be casting about for answers, discussing a possible run with advisers but appearing genuinely conflicted — seeking clarity at one point by making a solo road trip to meet Americans in unrehearsed settings. On Thursday, any lingering apprehension was well concealed. “This is the moment,” he said, standing atop a coffeehouse counter in Burlington, hands flying, “for the leadership of the indispensable country.” He left little doubt which leader he had in mind for the top job.   Supported by By Trip Gabriel SOUTH BEND, Ind. — Pete Buttigieg, the young Midwestern mayor whose presidential bid has been an unlikely early focus of attention from Democratic voters and donors, kicked off his campaign on Sunday and proclaimed his hometown’s revival was the answer to skeptics who ask how he has the “audacity” to see himself in the White House. At a rally inside a partly rebuilt factory, once owned by the automaker Studebaker and now being turned into glass-sheathed offices for tech and other businesses, Mr. Buttigieg said, “I ran for mayor in 2011 knowing nothing like Studebaker would ever come back, but that we would, our city would, if we had the courage to reimagine our future.” If elected, Mr. Buttigieg, a 37-year-old Rhodes scholar and veteran of the war in Afghanistan, would represent a series of historic firsts: the youngest president ever and the first who is openly gay. He said he was motivated to run despite his youth because of an urgency to correct the course of the Trump administration on climate change, health care and immigration. “This is one of those rare moments between whole eras in the life of our nation,” Mr. Buttigieg said, adding, “The moment we live in compels us to act.’’ [Pete Buttigieg’s college writings reveal the roots of his 2020 campaign.] He painted a picture of a hopeful future rooted in Midwestern values, contrasting his focus on a better life in 2030, 2040 and 2054 — the year he would be the same age as President Trump is today — with what he called Mr. Trump’s appeal to “resentment and nostalgia.” And he invoked his marriage to his husband, Chasten Buttigieg, as one of the blessings of American freedom, but one that feels fragile in the current climate. “Our marriage exists by the grace of a single vote on the U.S. Supreme Court,’’ Mr. Buttigieg told a crowd of several thousand people. “Nine men and women sat down in a room and took a vote, and they brought me the most important freedom in my life.” Though Mr. Buttigieg is a political progressive, his main message is the claim to leadership of millennial Americans, those he says will be on “the business end” of climate change, who grew up with school shootings and who supplied most of the troops in America’s wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. Little known just two months ago, Mr. Buttigieg has won support and financial backing through a blitz of television interviews in which he has given earnest, nuanced responses that make liberal points without raising the temperature. But he has also engaged some of the left’s big targets, accusing Vice President Mike Pence of religious hypocrisy for standing faithfully behind Mr. Trump and for seeking to erode gay rights. And he makes much of the fact that he has more military experience than any president since George H. W. Bush. Mr. Buttigieg took a seven-month leave during his first mayoral term to serve as a Navy Reserves intelligence officer in Afghanistan. He mentioned “the 119 trips I took outside the wire” guarding or driving a vehicle. The men and women he escorted “cared about whether my M-4 was locked and loaded,’’ he said, “not whether I was going home to a girlfriend or a boyfriend.’’ Videos showcasing his assorted talents have been online hits, including him speaking in Norwegian and playing piano with the singer Ben Folds and the South Bend Symphony. By some measures, his candidacy has generated more social media interest than any other 2020 Democratic hopeful. [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join our conversation about the 2020 presidential race.] Once considered the longest of long shots, he has seen a surge in fund-raising and in polls. His campaign reported raising $7 million in the first quarter of the year, a more than respectable figure. Last week, polls of Iowa and New Hampshire showed Mr. Buttigieg trailing only Senator Bernie Sanders and former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., and ahead of better-known candidates including Senator Elizabeth Warren and former Representative Beto O’Rourke. As he ascends from flavor-of-the-month to widely visible contender for the Democratic nomination, Mr. Buttigieg’s record as a two-term mayor is beginning to come under scrutiny. Apart from his biography — he has credentials from Harvard, Oxford and McKinsey consulting — Mr. Buttigieg’s candidacy rests on his claim of reversing economic free fall in South Bend, once an industrial powerhouse that in 2011 was named by Newsweek one of America’s top 10 “dying cities.” Today, businesses and pedestrians have returned to parts of downtown, including the new offices in the former Studebaker factory. “I’m glad you can see this for yourself, because this city’s story is a big part of why I am doing this,’’ he said, speaking in an unrestored part of the factory where the vaulted roof leaked on a rainy day. Not everyone has benefited from the city’s post-recession growth. Some black and Hispanic residents, who account for 40 percent of the population, feel left out. “It’s hard for me to say this is a turnaround city,” said Regina Williams-Preston, who is running in municipal elections to replace Mr. Buttigieg. “We’re all excited about what’s happening downtown — the black community, poor folks, Hispanic people,” she said. But prosperity has not flowed equally. “Over half the people in our community who are working — it’s their dollars that you’re investing — are not feeling a return on their investment.” An earlier version of this article stated incorrectly that Pete Buttigieg was the only 2020 presidential candidate to have served in the military. Representative Tulsi Gabbard, another candidate, is also a veteran.   

Supported by By Trip Gabriel SOUTH BEND, Ind. — Pete Buttigieg, the young Midwestern mayor whose presidential bid has been an unlikely early focus of attention from Democratic voters and donors, kicked off his campaign on Sunday and proclaimed his hometown’s revival was the answer to skeptics who ask how he has the “audacity” to see himself in the White House. At a rally inside a partly rebuilt factory, once owned by the automaker Studebaker and now being turned into glass-sheathed offices for tech and other businesses, Mr. Buttigieg said, “I ran for mayor in 2011 knowing nothing like Studebaker would ever come back, but that we would, our city would, if we had the courage to reimagine our future.” If elected, Mr. Buttigieg, a 37-year-old Rhodes scholar and veteran of the war in Afghanistan, would represent a series of historic firsts: the youngest president ever and the first who is openly gay. He said he was motivated to run despite his youth because of an urgency to correct the course of the Trump administration on climate change, health care and immigration. “This is one of those rare moments between whole eras in the life of our nation,” Mr. Buttigieg said, adding, “The moment we live in compels us to act.’’ [Pete Buttigieg’s college writings reveal the roots of his 2020 campaign.] He painted a picture of a hopeful future rooted in Midwestern values, contrasting his focus on a better life in 2030, 2040 and 2054 — the year he would be the same age as President Trump is today — with what he called Mr. Trump’s appeal to “resentment and nostalgia.” And he invoked his marriage to his husband, Chasten Buttigieg, as one of the blessings of American freedom, but one that feels fragile in the current climate. “Our marriage exists by the grace of a single vote on the U.S. Supreme Court,’’ Mr. Buttigieg told a crowd of several thousand people. “Nine men and women sat down in a room and took a vote, and they brought me the most important freedom in my life.” Though Mr. Buttigieg is a political progressive, his main message is the claim to leadership of millennial Americans, those he says will be on “the business end” of climate change, who grew up with school shootings and who supplied most of the troops in America’s wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. Little known just two months ago, Mr. Buttigieg has won support and financial backing through a blitz of television interviews in which he has given earnest, nuanced responses that make liberal points without raising the temperature. But he has also engaged some of the left’s big targets, accusing Vice President Mike Pence of religious hypocrisy for standing faithfully behind Mr. Trump and for seeking to erode gay rights. And he makes much of the fact that he has more military experience than any president since George H. W. Bush. Mr. Buttigieg took a seven-month leave during his first mayoral term to serve as a Navy Reserves intelligence officer in Afghanistan. He mentioned “the 119 trips I took outside the wire” guarding or driving a vehicle. The men and women he escorted “cared about whether my M-4 was locked and loaded,’’ he said, “not whether I was going home to a girlfriend or a boyfriend.’’ Videos showcasing his assorted talents have been online hits, including him speaking in Norwegian and playing piano with the singer Ben Folds and the South Bend Symphony. By some measures, his candidacy has generated more social media interest than any other 2020 Democratic hopeful. [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join our conversation about the 2020 presidential race.] Once considered the longest of long shots, he has seen a surge in fund-raising and in polls. His campaign reported raising $7 million in the first quarter of the year, a more than respectable figure. Last week, polls of Iowa and New Hampshire showed Mr. Buttigieg trailing only Senator Bernie Sanders and former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., and ahead of better-known candidates including Senator Elizabeth Warren and former Representative Beto O’Rourke. As he ascends from flavor-of-the-month to widely visible contender for the Democratic nomination, Mr. Buttigieg’s record as a two-term mayor is beginning to come under scrutiny. Apart from his biography — he has credentials from Harvard, Oxford and McKinsey consulting — Mr. Buttigieg’s candidacy rests on his claim of reversing economic free fall in South Bend, once an industrial powerhouse that in 2011 was named by Newsweek one of America’s top 10 “dying cities.” Today, businesses and pedestrians have returned to parts of downtown, including the new offices in the former Studebaker factory. “I’m glad you can see this for yourself, because this city’s story is a big part of why I am doing this,’’ he said, speaking in an unrestored part of the factory where the vaulted roof leaked on a rainy day. Not everyone has benefited from the city’s post-recession growth. Some black and Hispanic residents, who account for 40 percent of the population, feel left out. “It’s hard for me to say this is a turnaround city,” said Regina Williams-Preston, who is running in municipal elections to replace Mr. Buttigieg. “We’re all excited about what’s happening downtown — the black community, poor folks, Hispanic people,” she said. But prosperity has not flowed equally. “Over half the people in our community who are working — it’s their dollars that you’re investing — are not feeling a return on their investment.” An earlier version of this article stated incorrectly that Pete Buttigieg was the only 2020 presidential candidate to have served in the military. Representative Tulsi Gabbard, another candidate, is also a veteran.   Supported by By Stephanie Saul EL PASO — Beto O’Rourke officially kicked off his campaign for the Democratic presidential nomination Saturday morning, quoting the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., raising populist themes and praising the way immigration has enriched El Paso and the nation. Speaking at a downtown rally near the border with Mexico, Mr. O’Rourke said that his hometown, El Paso, its embrace of immigration and its rich ties with Mexico represented the best of the American experience, adding that the challenges facing the country presented “a moment of truth.” Quoting Dr. King, he said El Paso and its Mexican neighbor of Ciudad Juárez were “caught in an inescapable network of mutuality, tied in a single garment of destiny.” He added, “This is a campaign for America, for everyone in America.” [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join our conversation about the 2020 presidential race.] His words and the setting on the street that connects El Paso with Ciudad Juárez symbolized what his campaign said would be one of Mr. O’Rourke’s themes — a “unifying vision for bridging divides” to unite Americans from all walks of life. But the speech by Mr. O’Rourke, a former three-term member of Congress, comes at a time of extraordinary discord over immigration, with a surge of migrants trying to enter the United States and President Trump threatening to seal off the border next week. El Paso has been a flash point for much of that unrest, with hundreds of migrants now being held in a makeshift encampment under a bridge near where Mr. O’Rourke was speaking. The encampment, where immigration officials are detaining people behind razor wire with little hot food, was set up last week when El Paso’s main border processing center reached overflow capacity following the largest influx of migrants in years. Acknowledging the plight of the migrants, Mr. O’Rourke said, “Let us remember that every single one of us, including those who are just three or four blocks from here detained under the international bridge — behind chain-link fence and barbed wire — they are our fellow human beings and deserve to be treated like our fellow human beings.” Mr. O’Rourke, who also held rallies Saturday in Houston and outside the state’s capitol in Austin, stressed not only immigration but also health care, education, climate change, criminal justice reform, the economy, voting rights and racial inequality. All are topics that have emerged as major issues in the effort by Democrats to unseat Mr. Trump in 2020. [Check out our tracker of the 2020 Democratic candidate field.] “This is our moment of truth and we cannot be found wanting,” he told the enthusiastic crowd. “The challenges before us are the greatest of our lifetimes. An economy that works too well for too few and not at all for too many more. A health care system where millions are unable to see a doctor or be well enough to live to their full potential and the last, best hope of averting the catastrophe that will follow climate change, fading before our very inaction. We must overcome these challenges.” Mr. O’Rourke was introduced by his wife, Amy O’Rourke, an educator. The couple’s three children also attended. Mr. O’Rourke has been campaigning for two weeks, often in impromptu sessions in cafes or intimate town halls. But this was billed as his first major public event and opportunity to present the broad themes of his campaign. Speaking extemporaneously for 34 minutes, gesticulating as he walked around a stage set in the middle of the street, Mr. O’Rourke hit particularly hard on access to health care and prescription drug costs. “When one of the largest providers of mental health care services is a county jail system, and in a nation that is in the midst of a maternal mortality crisis — three times as deadly for women of color — let us ensure that universal health care means we can see a primary care provider, all of us can get mental health care, and that universal health care means that every woman makes her own decisions about her own body,” he said. He also called for better pay for teachers — “let’s pay them what they’re worth” — and a “world-class public school system from pre-K to 12.” The crowd of several thousand supporters included Marta Lopez, 71, a retired state worker from El Paso, who had come wearing a black-and-white BETO T-shirt. “We’ve lived here all our lives, and I feel we don’t need a wall,” said Ms. Lopez, adding that she admires Mr. O’Rourke’s positions on immigration as well as his pledge not to accept PAC money. Several supporters of Mr. O’Rourke said they were intimidated by a gantlet of pro-Trump protesters blocking their way to the rally. “They were just very confrontational and yelling scary stuff at us,’’ said Thelma Ramos, 38, of El Paso, who came with her 13-year-old daughter. Mr. O’Rourke, 46, grew up in this Texas border city, the son of a local political figure and a furniture store operator. He had little name recognition until last year, when he became a national figure during his unsuccessful effort to unseat Senator Ted Cruz, a Republican. With a progressive sheen and grass-roots appeal, Mr. O’Rourke set fund-raising records in that Senate campaign. He continued that record-setting pace in the 24 hours after announcing his White House ambitions two weeks ago, raising more than $6.1 million online in one day. That outpaced the $5.9 million collected by Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont in his first day. Some recent polls place Mr. O’Rourke third in popularity among Democrats expected to be in the race, behind former Vice President Joe Biden, who has not yet announced his intentions, and Mr. Sanders. And if his style is entirely different from Mr. Sanders, he hit many similar themes. “For too long in this country, the powerful have maintained their privilege at the expense of the powerless,” he said. “They have used fears and division in the same way that our current president uses fear and division.”   

Supported by By Stephanie Saul EL PASO — Beto O’Rourke officially kicked off his campaign for the Democratic presidential nomination Saturday morning, quoting the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., raising populist themes and praising the way immigration has enriched El Paso and the nation. Speaking at a downtown rally near the border with Mexico, Mr. O’Rourke said that his hometown, El Paso, its embrace of immigration and its rich ties with Mexico represented the best of the American experience, adding that the challenges facing the country presented “a moment of truth.” Quoting Dr. King, he said El Paso and its Mexican neighbor of Ciudad Juárez were “caught in an inescapable network of mutuality, tied in a single garment of destiny.” He added, “This is a campaign for America, for everyone in America.” [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join our conversation about the 2020 presidential race.] His words and the setting on the street that connects El Paso with Ciudad Juárez symbolized what his campaign said would be one of Mr. O’Rourke’s themes — a “unifying vision for bridging divides” to unite Americans from all walks of life. But the speech by Mr. O’Rourke, a former three-term member of Congress, comes at a time of extraordinary discord over immigration, with a surge of migrants trying to enter the United States and President Trump threatening to seal off the border next week. El Paso has been a flash point for much of that unrest, with hundreds of migrants now being held in a makeshift encampment under a bridge near where Mr. O’Rourke was speaking. The encampment, where immigration officials are detaining people behind razor wire with little hot food, was set up last week when El Paso’s main border processing center reached overflow capacity following the largest influx of migrants in years. Acknowledging the plight of the migrants, Mr. O’Rourke said, “Let us remember that every single one of us, including those who are just three or four blocks from here detained under the international bridge — behind chain-link fence and barbed wire — they are our fellow human beings and deserve to be treated like our fellow human beings.” Mr. O’Rourke, who also held rallies Saturday in Houston and outside the state’s capitol in Austin, stressed not only immigration but also health care, education, climate change, criminal justice reform, the economy, voting rights and racial inequality. All are topics that have emerged as major issues in the effort by Democrats to unseat Mr. Trump in 2020. [Check out our tracker of the 2020 Democratic candidate field.] “This is our moment of truth and we cannot be found wanting,” he told the enthusiastic crowd. “The challenges before us are the greatest of our lifetimes. An economy that works too well for too few and not at all for too many more. A health care system where millions are unable to see a doctor or be well enough to live to their full potential and the last, best hope of averting the catastrophe that will follow climate change, fading before our very inaction. We must overcome these challenges.” Mr. O’Rourke was introduced by his wife, Amy O’Rourke, an educator. The couple’s three children also attended. Mr. O’Rourke has been campaigning for two weeks, often in impromptu sessions in cafes or intimate town halls. But this was billed as his first major public event and opportunity to present the broad themes of his campaign. Speaking extemporaneously for 34 minutes, gesticulating as he walked around a stage set in the middle of the street, Mr. O’Rourke hit particularly hard on access to health care and prescription drug costs. “When one of the largest providers of mental health care services is a county jail system, and in a nation that is in the midst of a maternal mortality crisis — three times as deadly for women of color — let us ensure that universal health care means we can see a primary care provider, all of us can get mental health care, and that universal health care means that every woman makes her own decisions about her own body,” he said. He also called for better pay for teachers — “let’s pay them what they’re worth” — and a “world-class public school system from pre-K to 12.” The crowd of several thousand supporters included Marta Lopez, 71, a retired state worker from El Paso, who had come wearing a black-and-white BETO T-shirt. “We’ve lived here all our lives, and I feel we don’t need a wall,” said Ms. Lopez, adding that she admires Mr. O’Rourke’s positions on immigration as well as his pledge not to accept PAC money. Several supporters of Mr. O’Rourke said they were intimidated by a gantlet of pro-Trump protesters blocking their way to the rally. “They were just very confrontational and yelling scary stuff at us,’’ said Thelma Ramos, 38, of El Paso, who came with her 13-year-old daughter. Mr. O’Rourke, 46, grew up in this Texas border city, the son of a local political figure and a furniture store operator. He had little name recognition until last year, when he became a national figure during his unsuccessful effort to unseat Senator Ted Cruz, a Republican. With a progressive sheen and grass-roots appeal, Mr. O’Rourke set fund-raising records in that Senate campaign. He continued that record-setting pace in the 24 hours after announcing his White House ambitions two weeks ago, raising more than $6.1 million online in one day. That outpaced the $5.9 million collected by Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont in his first day. Some recent polls place Mr. O’Rourke third in popularity among Democrats expected to be in the race, behind former Vice President Joe Biden, who has not yet announced his intentions, and Mr. Sanders. And if his style is entirely different from Mr. Sanders, he hit many similar themes. “For too long in this country, the powerful have maintained their privilege at the expense of the powerless,” he said. “They have used fears and division in the same way that our current president uses fear and division.”   Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — Congress will receive Special Counsel Robert Mueller's report on alleged Russian interference in the 2016 U.S. presidential campaign on Thursday between 11 a.m. and noon, a senior Justice Department official said on Wednesday. Copies of the report will be delivered to Capitol Hill on disks and a link to the document will be posted on the special counsel's website after it is delivered to Congress, the official said.  (Reporting by Sarah N. Lynch; Writing by Eric Beech; Editing by Mohammad Zargham)

Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — Congress will receive Special Counsel Robert Mueller's report on alleged Russian interference in the 2016 U.S. presidential campaign on Thursday between 11 a.m. and noon, a senior Justice Department official said on Wednesday. Copies of the report will be delivered to Capitol Hill on disks and a link to the document will be posted on the special counsel's website after it is delivered to Congress, the official said.  (Reporting by Sarah N. Lynch; Writing by Eric Beech; Editing by Mohammad Zargham)Supported by By Matt Flegenheimer There is no discernible mass groundswell for an Eric Swalwell presidential campaign. The case against: He is a 38-year-old California congressman of little legislative distinction. He would appear to have minimal running room in a deep and accomplished Democratic field expected to grow to 20 or so — large enough to fill two baseball starting lineups, with another contender or two left to heckle from the dugout. The case for: Why not? “We don’t have time for vanity things,” Mr. Swalwell insisted in an interview this past week, the morning after he announced his candidacy on “The Late Show With Stephen Colbert,” pledging to anchor his bid in a call for greater gun control. “We’re doing big things.” That remains to be seen. But at the very least, if recent history is a guide, a run is likely to yield better things, perpetuating the victory-in-defeat incentive structure endemic to modern presidential politics. Today’s primaries tend to produce one nominee but many winners. Beyond the long-shot candidates effectively auditioning for cabinet positions or building a profile (and donor base) for future races, there are prospective books to sell and television contracts to sign, boards to join and paid speeches to paid-speak. Any setback is temporary, any embarrassment surmountable. [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] “There’s just absolutely no downside and only upside,” Antonia Ferrier, a longtime Republican strategist and former senior aide to Senator Mitch McConnell, said of quixotic presidential runs. “It is an industry of self-promotion. What better way to self-promote than run for president?” The Democratic presidential field is more crowded than usual. Here’s how it compares with past cycles. Mike Huckabee, the former Arkansas governor, has leveraged two losing presidential campaigns into an empire of folksy conservative ubiquity across television, radio and print. Ben Carson transitioned from renowned neurosurgeon to national hero of the right during a 2016 run that included an extended midcampaign hiatus to promote his book. His efforts were rewarded with a job in President Trump’s cabinet. Newt Gingrich, the former Republican House speaker, clawed back to national prominence seven years ago despite posing little threat to take the nomination, turning the protagonist of his wife’s children’s book — a fictional elephant named Ellis — into a kind of campaign mascot available for voter consumption. “It gives you a certain stature the rest of your life, kind of like having once been speaker of the House,” Mr. Gingrich said in an interview. “They introduce you, and then they say, ‘... and former presidential candidate!’ It’s not bad.” It is not. And underdog entrants have grown skilled at presenting their campaigns in altruistic terms, suggesting that finding a platform for a worthy cause is a reward tantamount to winning. [Who’s running for president in 2020? Keep up with who’s in and who’s out with our candidate tracker.] Tulsi Gabbard, a Hawaii congresswoman barely registering in most polls, has presented herself as the “peace” candidate opposed to military intervention overseas, though her willingness to visit President Bashar al-Assad of Syria has attracted wide scrutiny. Andrew Yang, a businessman and political newcomer, has found a semi-viral following with a focus on automation and a “universal basic income.” The Rev. Al Sharpton, who sought the Democratic nomination in 2004, said the experience aided his civil rights advocacy and increased his personal clout, expanding his opportunities even though he never approached serious electoral strength. “It opened doors. I was taken more seriously and what I represented was taken more seriously,” Mr. Sharpton said. He recalled hosting “Saturday Night Live” just before the primaries and later securing an invitation to meet with President George W. Bush. “No one in New York, when I was a tracksuit-wearing local activist, would ever dream I would sit down with a Republican president or host ‘Saturday Night Live,’” Mr. Sharpton said. Of course, it was Mr. Trump’s belief in the branding powers of a presidential campaign that pulled him into the 2016 race — and his triumph that has helped inspire successors. But Mr. Trump was already famous when he declared his intentions. And his blistering campaign style revealed a potential complication for those who see only benefits in running: Some of the top-tier contenders in 2016 — like Jeb Bush, appraised as “low energy” on Mr. Trump’s Twitter feed — came away plainly diminished as national figures. (Others, like Rick Perry and Mr. Carson, joined Mr. Trump’s administration.) Severe humiliation seems less likely among these Democrats, without a leading candidate who revels in savaging others in the party. In fact, for those with little to lose but an election, a national campaign appears to have grown only more attractive, even in a primary contest now teeming with 18 candidates. Many politicians look in the mirror and see a president. But at least as many look at the television, see peers with equivalent qualifications succeeding and reason that they should wander onto the set themselves. If Beto O’Rourke, a Senate-race-loser little known before last year, can shoot to the top tier of the Democratic field, what is stopping others? If Pete Buttigieg — a millennial mayor of a barely midsize city who was an also-ran in a 2017 bid to head the Democratic National Committee — can achieve national celebrity, why can’t anyone? “I don’t think anyone who runs for president does it just to boost their careers,” said Steve Israel, the former chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. “At the back of your mind is the constant calculation that you can catch some wave.” Mr. Swalwell, explaining his decision to run, cited Mr. Buttigieg’s success as evidence of his own viability. “We’re seeing generational cases being made here and they’re landing,” Mr. Swalwell said. “It’s completely reaffirmed to me that a generational candidate can connect.” This Democratic cycle does afford uncommon courtesies to nonfavorites. Sensitive to any perception of party meddling from on high, the D.N.C. does not plan to place front-runners and long shots on separate debate stages, opting against the so-called undercard debate format used for low-polling Republicans in 2016. Democrats who reach a minimum (and not especially stringent) threshold for polling or fund-raising will be slotted randomly into one of two debates on consecutive nights; some lesser-known contenders, including Mr. Yang, already seem poised to qualify. Rick Santorum, a Republican presidential candidate in 2012 and 2016 who has since become a political commentator on CNN, noted that his network was inviting Democratic candidates on air for hourlong town hall forums, whether or not they have gained much traction. “There’s just so many more opportunities to break through,” he said. “I don’t know anybody who has a quasi-legitimate shot at running for president who should pass it up.” But Mr. Santorum, a former Pennsylvania senator who won 11 states in 2012 as the primary runner-up to Mitt Romney, cautioned candidates against expecting lasting personal dividends from an unsuccessful run. “I was on the national stage before,” he said, suggesting that his presidential campaigns had little effect on his future prospects. “I did Fox for five years after I left the Senate. I did books. If you’re someone who’s relatively obscure, who’s not had a national profile, I don’t know. You can ask them.” This warning was bipartisan. Lincoln Chafee, the former Rhode Island governor who sought the Democratic nomination in 2016, said his professional life had not appreciably changed since a campaign that was most closely associated with his pitch to convert national measurements to the metric system (and that ended after only four months). He still believes he deserved a longer look. “I was in favor of bringing Snowden home, stopping drone strikes, ending capital punishment,” Mr. Chafee said. “But everyone screamed about metric.” He contends that the instincts that led him into the 2016 contest, despite Hillary Clinton’s overwhelming advantages, were validated by Senator Bernie Sanders’s strong showing. “I always thought there was room for somebody to take off,” Mr. Chafee said. “I was right. It just wasn’t me.”   

Supported by By Matt Flegenheimer There is no discernible mass groundswell for an Eric Swalwell presidential campaign. The case against: He is a 38-year-old California congressman of little legislative distinction. He would appear to have minimal running room in a deep and accomplished Democratic field expected to grow to 20 or so — large enough to fill two baseball starting lineups, with another contender or two left to heckle from the dugout. The case for: Why not? “We don’t have time for vanity things,” Mr. Swalwell insisted in an interview this past week, the morning after he announced his candidacy on “The Late Show With Stephen Colbert,” pledging to anchor his bid in a call for greater gun control. “We’re doing big things.” That remains to be seen. But at the very least, if recent history is a guide, a run is likely to yield better things, perpetuating the victory-in-defeat incentive structure endemic to modern presidential politics. Today’s primaries tend to produce one nominee but many winners. Beyond the long-shot candidates effectively auditioning for cabinet positions or building a profile (and donor base) for future races, there are prospective books to sell and television contracts to sign, boards to join and paid speeches to paid-speak. Any setback is temporary, any embarrassment surmountable. [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] “There’s just absolutely no downside and only upside,” Antonia Ferrier, a longtime Republican strategist and former senior aide to Senator Mitch McConnell, said of quixotic presidential runs. “It is an industry of self-promotion. What better way to self-promote than run for president?” The Democratic presidential field is more crowded than usual. Here’s how it compares with past cycles. Mike Huckabee, the former Arkansas governor, has leveraged two losing presidential campaigns into an empire of folksy conservative ubiquity across television, radio and print. Ben Carson transitioned from renowned neurosurgeon to national hero of the right during a 2016 run that included an extended midcampaign hiatus to promote his book. His efforts were rewarded with a job in President Trump’s cabinet. Newt Gingrich, the former Republican House speaker, clawed back to national prominence seven years ago despite posing little threat to take the nomination, turning the protagonist of his wife’s children’s book — a fictional elephant named Ellis — into a kind of campaign mascot available for voter consumption. “It gives you a certain stature the rest of your life, kind of like having once been speaker of the House,” Mr. Gingrich said in an interview. “They introduce you, and then they say, ‘... and former presidential candidate!’ It’s not bad.” It is not. And underdog entrants have grown skilled at presenting their campaigns in altruistic terms, suggesting that finding a platform for a worthy cause is a reward tantamount to winning. [Who’s running for president in 2020? Keep up with who’s in and who’s out with our candidate tracker.] Tulsi Gabbard, a Hawaii congresswoman barely registering in most polls, has presented herself as the “peace” candidate opposed to military intervention overseas, though her willingness to visit President Bashar al-Assad of Syria has attracted wide scrutiny. Andrew Yang, a businessman and political newcomer, has found a semi-viral following with a focus on automation and a “universal basic income.” The Rev. Al Sharpton, who sought the Democratic nomination in 2004, said the experience aided his civil rights advocacy and increased his personal clout, expanding his opportunities even though he never approached serious electoral strength. “It opened doors. I was taken more seriously and what I represented was taken more seriously,” Mr. Sharpton said. He recalled hosting “Saturday Night Live” just before the primaries and later securing an invitation to meet with President George W. Bush. “No one in New York, when I was a tracksuit-wearing local activist, would ever dream I would sit down with a Republican president or host ‘Saturday Night Live,’” Mr. Sharpton said. Of course, it was Mr. Trump’s belief in the branding powers of a presidential campaign that pulled him into the 2016 race — and his triumph that has helped inspire successors. But Mr. Trump was already famous when he declared his intentions. And his blistering campaign style revealed a potential complication for those who see only benefits in running: Some of the top-tier contenders in 2016 — like Jeb Bush, appraised as “low energy” on Mr. Trump’s Twitter feed — came away plainly diminished as national figures. (Others, like Rick Perry and Mr. Carson, joined Mr. Trump’s administration.) Severe humiliation seems less likely among these Democrats, without a leading candidate who revels in savaging others in the party. In fact, for those with little to lose but an election, a national campaign appears to have grown only more attractive, even in a primary contest now teeming with 18 candidates. Many politicians look in the mirror and see a president. But at least as many look at the television, see peers with equivalent qualifications succeeding and reason that they should wander onto the set themselves. If Beto O’Rourke, a Senate-race-loser little known before last year, can shoot to the top tier of the Democratic field, what is stopping others? If Pete Buttigieg — a millennial mayor of a barely midsize city who was an also-ran in a 2017 bid to head the Democratic National Committee — can achieve national celebrity, why can’t anyone? “I don’t think anyone who runs for president does it just to boost their careers,” said Steve Israel, the former chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. “At the back of your mind is the constant calculation that you can catch some wave.” Mr. Swalwell, explaining his decision to run, cited Mr. Buttigieg’s success as evidence of his own viability. “We’re seeing generational cases being made here and they’re landing,” Mr. Swalwell said. “It’s completely reaffirmed to me that a generational candidate can connect.” This Democratic cycle does afford uncommon courtesies to nonfavorites. Sensitive to any perception of party meddling from on high, the D.N.C. does not plan to place front-runners and long shots on separate debate stages, opting against the so-called undercard debate format used for low-polling Republicans in 2016. Democrats who reach a minimum (and not especially stringent) threshold for polling or fund-raising will be slotted randomly into one of two debates on consecutive nights; some lesser-known contenders, including Mr. Yang, already seem poised to qualify. Rick Santorum, a Republican presidential candidate in 2012 and 2016 who has since become a political commentator on CNN, noted that his network was inviting Democratic candidates on air for hourlong town hall forums, whether or not they have gained much traction. “There’s just so many more opportunities to break through,” he said. “I don’t know anybody who has a quasi-legitimate shot at running for president who should pass it up.” But Mr. Santorum, a former Pennsylvania senator who won 11 states in 2012 as the primary runner-up to Mitt Romney, cautioned candidates against expecting lasting personal dividends from an unsuccessful run. “I was on the national stage before,” he said, suggesting that his presidential campaigns had little effect on his future prospects. “I did Fox for five years after I left the Senate. I did books. If you’re someone who’s relatively obscure, who’s not had a national profile, I don’t know. You can ask them.” This warning was bipartisan. Lincoln Chafee, the former Rhode Island governor who sought the Democratic nomination in 2016, said his professional life had not appreciably changed since a campaign that was most closely associated with his pitch to convert national measurements to the metric system (and that ended after only four months). He still believes he deserved a longer look. “I was in favor of bringing Snowden home, stopping drone strikes, ending capital punishment,” Mr. Chafee said. “But everyone screamed about metric.” He contends that the instincts that led him into the 2016 contest, despite Hillary Clinton’s overwhelming advantages, were validated by Senator Bernie Sanders’s strong showing. “I always thought there was room for somebody to take off,” Mr. Chafee said. “I was right. It just wasn’t me.”   Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — Certain members of Congress will be able to see a less-redacted version of Special Counsel Robert Mueller's report after the initial public release on Thursday of a more heavily edited version of the document, a U.S. prosecutor said on Wednesday. U.S. Attorney General Barr is expected to publicly release a redacted version of Mueller's investigation into suspected Russian interference in the 2016 U.S. presidential campaign and possible collusion between President Donald Trump's campaign and Russia.  Barr said he would blacken out secret grand jury information, intelligence-gathering sources and methods, information relating to active cases, and information could affect the privacy of "peripheral third parties" who were not charged. Jessie Liu, the U.S. attorney for the District of Columbia, said in a court filing on Wednesday that some U.S. lawmakers will be able to see a less-redacted version of the report. "The Justice Department plans to make available for review by a limited number of Members of Congress and their staff a copy of the Special Counsel’s report without certain redactions," Liu said. "The Justice Department intends to secure this version of the report in an appropriate setting that will be accessible to a limited number of Members of Congress and their staff," she said.  (Reporting by Eric Beech; editing by David Alexander and Grant McCool)

Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — Certain members of Congress will be able to see a less-redacted version of Special Counsel Robert Mueller's report after the initial public release on Thursday of a more heavily edited version of the document, a U.S. prosecutor said on Wednesday. U.S. Attorney General Barr is expected to publicly release a redacted version of Mueller's investigation into suspected Russian interference in the 2016 U.S. presidential campaign and possible collusion between President Donald Trump's campaign and Russia.  Barr said he would blacken out secret grand jury information, intelligence-gathering sources and methods, information relating to active cases, and information could affect the privacy of "peripheral third parties" who were not charged. Jessie Liu, the U.S. attorney for the District of Columbia, said in a court filing on Wednesday that some U.S. lawmakers will be able to see a less-redacted version of the report. "The Justice Department plans to make available for review by a limited number of Members of Congress and their staff a copy of the Special Counsel’s report without certain redactions," Liu said. "The Justice Department intends to secure this version of the report in an appropriate setting that will be accessible to a limited number of Members of Congress and their staff," she said.  (Reporting by Eric Beech; editing by David Alexander and Grant McCool)Supported by Or is that question beside the point in the Trump era? By Thomas B. Edsall Mr. Edsall contributes a weekly column from Washington, D.C. on politics, demographics and inequality. In the current election cycle, bets on moderation have few takers. Leading Democratic candidates are supporting bold progressive policy initiatives that are supported by liberal primary voters but may prove to be a tough sell to the general electorate. President Trump and his Republican allies will certainly try to use these initiatives against their Democratic rivals. They have in fact already begun to do so. A number of Democratic presidential candidates, for example, are calling for the elimination of the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency and they have declared themselves in favor of such multibillion dollar programs as Medicare for all and a Green New Deal. Growing numbers are supportive of reparations to compensate black Americans for the costs of slavery and segregation. Why are these candidates willing to buck political tradition and heighten the risk of defeat on Nov. 3, 2020? Here is one answer, from Julie Wronski, a political scientist at the University of Mississippi: Democrats contain much more heterogeneity across social groups than the more homogeneous white, Christian conservative Republican Party. To the extent the Democratic Party needs to entice and accommodate African-Americans, Latinos, environmentalists, etc. as voters, their candidates need to start embracing boutique policies for these groups that may not align with a general election “median voter” model of espousing moderate national policies. The issue of reparations illuminates the heterogeneity of the Democratic electorate. There are two surveys on reparations, a May 2016 Marist Poll and a July 2018 poll by the liberal group Data for Progress. Both produced similar results. The Marist survey found overwhelming opposition among whites in response to the question  As a way to make up for the harm caused by slavery and other forms of racial discrimination, do you think the United States should or should not pay reparations, that is, should or should not pay money to African-Americans who are descendants of slaves? Whites were opposed 81-15. Latinos were split, with 46 percent in support and 47 percent opposed. African-American voters support reparations, 58-35. The Data for Progress survey found sharp partisan divisions on the issue of reparations. Democrats supported reparations across the board: whites 37.8 to 30.5 percent; blacks 58.5 to 15.0 percent; Hispanics, 49.9 to 18.3 percent. Independents were opposed, 41.0 to 22.8 percent. Republicans were decisively in opposition, 77.1 to 8.9 percent. Among all voters, opposition to reparations was nearly twice as large as support, 47.1 to 26.4 percent. For the Democrats running for president, African-American backing is crucial both in the primaries and in the general election. Nationally, black voters in 2016 cast about one of every four ballots in Democratic primaries. In four states, African-Americans cast the majority of votes: 71 percent in Mississippi, 61 percent in South Carolina, 54 percent in Alabama and 51 percent in Georgia. Let’s look at another progressive initiative. In August 2018, AP-NORC asked voters if they support or oppose “abolishing the Immigration and Customs Enforcement, known as ICE?” 41 percent opposed abolition and 24 percent supported it. Medicare for all and the Green New Deal pose a subtler dilemma for Democratic candidates. In the abstract, voters are supportive; the problems arise when the same voters are told key details, including costs. The best example of this is Medicare for all. In March, a Kaiser Family Foundation poll found that a majority supported “a national health plan or Medicare-for-all plan,” 56-39, but support vacillates in both directions depending on how the program is portrayed. If, for example, Democrats posit that Medicare for all would eliminate health care premiums and reduce out of pocket costs, support rises to 67 percent with 30 percent opposed. Conversely, if Republicans succeed in portraying the program as leading to delays in getting medical treatment, or to the elimination of current private coverage, or to higher taxes, support collapses to the mid-20s and mid-30s, with opposition shooting up to the 60 to 70 percent range. Bold progressive stands may be risky in general elections, but recent research suggests that policy radicalism pays off in primaries. In a forthcoming paper, “Policy Over Party: Comparing the effects of candidate ideology and party on affective polarization,” Yphtach Lelkes, a political scientist at the University of Pennsylvania, reports that voters in primary elections prefer candidates who are willing to take more extreme positions. “Partisans are reacting most favorably toward ideological extremists,” Lelkes wrote in an email: In fact, moderates are punished for the policies. Extreme politicians in the vein of Mike Lee and Elizabeth Warren, are rated roughly 20-25 points higher (on a 0 to 100 scale) by party identifiers than ideologically moderate politicians in the vein of Susan Collins and Joe Manchin. These effects are even larger among ideologically extreme respondents — the kind that vote in primary elections. Lelkes conducted experiments that asked participants to rate a number of hypothetical candidates, including a moderate Democrat, an “ideologically extreme” liberal Democrat, a moderate Republican and an “ideologically extreme” conservative Republican. He found that the most ideologically committed voters — who are disproportionately represented in primaries and caucuses — strongly preferred more extreme candidates: The impact of policy cues was particularly strong among respondents who themselves held strong policy positions. If a respondent was told that candidate held extreme in-party views, ideologically extreme respondents registered feeling thermometer ratings 35.89 points warmer than ideologically neutral respondents. Lelkes’s conclusion? If we are to decrease affective polarization in the United States, we need politicians that are politically moderate. Unfortunately, voters prefer politicians of their own party that are politically extreme. This incentivizes extreme political candidates, which will only exacerbate current tensions. There are dangers for both parties is these trends, Lelkes argues, citing a 2015 study of House elections, “What Happens When Extremists Win Primaries?” by Andrew Hall, a political scientist at Stanford. Hall found that when a more extreme candidate beats a moderate in the primary the party’s general-election vote share decreases on average by approximately 9—13 percentage points, and the probability that the party wins the seat decreases by 35—54 percentage points. Gallup data shows the steady ascendance within Democratic ranks of self-identified ideological liberals and a parallel decline in the share of Democrats who say they are moderate or conservative. From 1973 to 2018, as I have noted before, the percentage of Democrats who say they are liberal has grown from 25 to 51 percent, while the share of moderates has fallen from 48 to 31 percent, and the share of conservatives has dropped from 25 to 13 percent. A 2014 Pew study showed a steady process of ideological consolidation among both Republicans and Democrats since 1994, although consolidation accelerated most rapidly on the left: The share of Democrats who are liberal on all or most value dimensions has nearly doubled from just 30 percent in 1994 to 56 percent today. The share who are consistently liberal has quadrupled from just 5 percent to 23 percent over the past 20 years. In a reflection of their importance in primaries, “consistently liberal” Democrats turned out in elections at a 70 percent rate, compared with 47 percent for “mostly liberal” Democrats and 41 percent for Democrats with “mixed views,” according to Pew data. These and other trends, according to Lee Drutman, a senior fellow at the liberal New America think tank, represent the changing the mind-set of the Democratic electorate. In an email, Drutman wrote: Two related dynamics are operative. One, Democratic voters have moved to the left in response to Trump, and are eager for policies that signal transformative change, not just incrementalism. There is no return to normalcy, because the past is now seen as more flawed. This dynamic has intensified because the most engaged Democrats, Drutman writes, have bought into an argument that Hillary Clinton lost in 2016 because she was too incrementalist, and had she gone a little bolder and promised something more exciting than her competence and experience, she might have won. The second dynamic, Drutman continued, is that in a crowded field, candidates are seeking to distinguish themselves with grass-roots energy. A very effective way of generating grass-roots energy is attaching to transformative changes these policies signal. Incrementalism and moderation doesn’t generate much excitement among the activists or in coverage from journalists who are responsible for driving candidate buzz in these early stages. In a similar analysis, John Sides, a political scientist at George Washington University, argues that On race and immigration in particular, I think Trump is pushing Democrats to the left. To be clear, Hillary Clinton was already to Obama’s left even in 2016. But I think Trump’s rhetoric and agenda has made conservative positions on race and immigration even more anathema to Democrats. Sides also pointed out that the incentives for Democratic candidates have shifted: It used to be the case that Democratic candidates had to moderate on racial issues to maintain a Democratic coalition that included both blacks and some racially conservative whites. But the Democratic coalition has changed: it is increasingly made up of not only nonwhites but whites who espouse racially liberal attitudes. In an argument elaborating on a point made by Drutman, Edward Carmines, a political scientist at Indiana University, made the case that the 2016 defeat of Hillary Clinton fostered the shift to the left: If a moderate policy agenda cannot guarantee electoral victory why downplay your leftward policy orientations in the unlikely event that it will jeopardize your electoral success? Carmines added: Trump’s success has reinforced this perspective. He won with a very right-wing policy agenda. Perhaps a left-wing set of proposals can lead Democrats to similar success. Carmines believes that “both of these premises are mistaken and could very well lead Democrats to electoral defeat when victory is within sight.” Leonie Huddy, a political scientist at Stony Brook University, argues that the liberal tilt of the Democratic candidates is, in fact, a rational political strategy. “There is real change afoot with the most recent generations,” she wrote, citing a Pew study released in January: Young Republicans are especially different from older Republicans and the Democratic Party is likely to regard such findings as an invitation to poach more liberal young Republicans. Strong partisans, however, Huddy writes, “are unlikely to defect from the party in 2020 regardless of its issue agenda,” and political independents are younger, on average, than partisans. Appealing to young voters thus makes political sense when it comes to the general 2020 presidential election. Gary Jacobson, a political scientist at the University of California-San Diego, has a somewhat different take on the changing character of the Democratic electorate and the party’s presidential candidates. The candidates, Jacobson wrote by email, “are playing to their activist base whose enthusiasm helped produce their House victory in 2018.” He warned, however, that “leaning left does carry risks; there are not enough liberals (or progressives, if you prefer) to form a majority nationally or in the Electoral College.” In contemporary presidential campaigns, according to Jacobson, the tricky thing is that in an era of extremely high party line voting, turnout becomes enormously important. Trump has proven to be a great mobilizer of Democrats, but they still have to consider how enthusiastic ordinary Democrats will be about their nominee. Trump, Jacobson noted, will try to mobilize his base by ranting about “socialism” and of course some potential Democratic candidates will be more vulnerable to that charge than others. The strategic choices facing prospective Democratic nominees are, in the view of Lynn Vavreck, a political scientist at U.C.L.A., even more complex and subtle than those described by Jacobson. Taking very liberal stands on contested issues, she wrote me, might not pose “significant risks” if you think your minimum winning coalition of voters is made up of people who either share your preferences on these things, or for whom these policies are not pivotal in their vote decision. She elaborated: There are people for whom these issues are important, but for whom there’s no position a Democrat could take that would make them decide not to vote for that Democrat. There are other people, presumably, for whom these issues are so important and their preferences so intense, that any Democrat who takes a position far from their own is a Democrat for whom they won’t vote. It depends which type of people you think are in your winning coalition as to whether you stake out positions on these things. Matthew Nisbet, a professor of communication, public policy and urban affairs at Northeastern and editor in chief of the journal Environmental Communication, addressed only the support for a Green New Deal by some Democratic candidates. His view is pessimistic. In an email, he wrote: The Green New Deal has done damage to the Democratic Party’s chances heading into the 2020 elections, while hurting efforts to build momentum on behalf of climate and energy policy options capable of passing during an era of enduring divided government. In an article in the spring edition of Issues in Science and Technology, Nisbet contends that the goal of Green New Dealers is not to broker cross-alliances between the center-right, center-left, and left wing, drawing on the best ideas that those factions can offer, but rather to build progressive power. In an interesting development, the momentum behind the more radical Democratic agenda has turned both Barack Obama and Nancy Pelosi into defenders of the party’s old guard. Pelosi, who has been trying with mixed success to tamp down the left wing of the House Democratic caucus, recently described her views on Medicare for all in an interview with The Washington Post. At first she said, “I’m agnostic. Show me how you think you can get there.” But then she cautioned: So we’ll have hearings, again, let’s see what it is. Right now it’s a $30 trillion price tag. What do people get for that in terms of care, and what do they pay for that along the way? Implicit in her comment is the belief that $30 trillion is not acceptable to the American public. Obama, speaking at a town hall in Germany earlier this month, warned of the dangers of uncompromising ideology for the progressive wing of his party: One of the things I do worry about sometimes among progressives in the United States — maybe it’s true here as well — is a certain kind of rigidity where we say, ‘Uh, I’m sorry, this is how it’s going to be,’ and then we start sometimes creating what’s called a ‘circular firing squad,’ where you start shooting at your allies because one of them has strayed from purity on the issues. And when that happens, typically the overall effort and movement weakens. For the moment, both Obama and Pelosi are having minimal influence as far as the leftward thrust of the Democratic presidential nomination goes. Three years ago, Trump threw out conventional wisdom and went on to win the nomination and the presidency. Maybe, this time around, Democrats can gamble successfully on a similar strategy and win. Or maybe not.  The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Thomas B. Edsall has been a contributor to The Times Opinion section since 2011. His column on strategic and demographic trends in American politics appears every Wednesday. He previously covered politics for The Washington Post.   @edsall 

Supported by Or is that question beside the point in the Trump era? By Thomas B. Edsall Mr. Edsall contributes a weekly column from Washington, D.C. on politics, demographics and inequality. In the current election cycle, bets on moderation have few takers. Leading Democratic candidates are supporting bold progressive policy initiatives that are supported by liberal primary voters but may prove to be a tough sell to the general electorate. President Trump and his Republican allies will certainly try to use these initiatives against their Democratic rivals. They have in fact already begun to do so. A number of Democratic presidential candidates, for example, are calling for the elimination of the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency and they have declared themselves in favor of such multibillion dollar programs as Medicare for all and a Green New Deal. Growing numbers are supportive of reparations to compensate black Americans for the costs of slavery and segregation. Why are these candidates willing to buck political tradition and heighten the risk of defeat on Nov. 3, 2020? Here is one answer, from Julie Wronski, a political scientist at the University of Mississippi: Democrats contain much more heterogeneity across social groups than the more homogeneous white, Christian conservative Republican Party. To the extent the Democratic Party needs to entice and accommodate African-Americans, Latinos, environmentalists, etc. as voters, their candidates need to start embracing boutique policies for these groups that may not align with a general election “median voter” model of espousing moderate national policies. The issue of reparations illuminates the heterogeneity of the Democratic electorate. There are two surveys on reparations, a May 2016 Marist Poll and a July 2018 poll by the liberal group Data for Progress. Both produced similar results. The Marist survey found overwhelming opposition among whites in response to the question  As a way to make up for the harm caused by slavery and other forms of racial discrimination, do you think the United States should or should not pay reparations, that is, should or should not pay money to African-Americans who are descendants of slaves? Whites were opposed 81-15. Latinos were split, with 46 percent in support and 47 percent opposed. African-American voters support reparations, 58-35. The Data for Progress survey found sharp partisan divisions on the issue of reparations. Democrats supported reparations across the board: whites 37.8 to 30.5 percent; blacks 58.5 to 15.0 percent; Hispanics, 49.9 to 18.3 percent. Independents were opposed, 41.0 to 22.8 percent. Republicans were decisively in opposition, 77.1 to 8.9 percent. Among all voters, opposition to reparations was nearly twice as large as support, 47.1 to 26.4 percent. For the Democrats running for president, African-American backing is crucial both in the primaries and in the general election. Nationally, black voters in 2016 cast about one of every four ballots in Democratic primaries. In four states, African-Americans cast the majority of votes: 71 percent in Mississippi, 61 percent in South Carolina, 54 percent in Alabama and 51 percent in Georgia. Let’s look at another progressive initiative. In August 2018, AP-NORC asked voters if they support or oppose “abolishing the Immigration and Customs Enforcement, known as ICE?” 41 percent opposed abolition and 24 percent supported it. Medicare for all and the Green New Deal pose a subtler dilemma for Democratic candidates. In the abstract, voters are supportive; the problems arise when the same voters are told key details, including costs. The best example of this is Medicare for all. In March, a Kaiser Family Foundation poll found that a majority supported “a national health plan or Medicare-for-all plan,” 56-39, but support vacillates in both directions depending on how the program is portrayed. If, for example, Democrats posit that Medicare for all would eliminate health care premiums and reduce out of pocket costs, support rises to 67 percent with 30 percent opposed. Conversely, if Republicans succeed in portraying the program as leading to delays in getting medical treatment, or to the elimination of current private coverage, or to higher taxes, support collapses to the mid-20s and mid-30s, with opposition shooting up to the 60 to 70 percent range. Bold progressive stands may be risky in general elections, but recent research suggests that policy radicalism pays off in primaries. In a forthcoming paper, “Policy Over Party: Comparing the effects of candidate ideology and party on affective polarization,” Yphtach Lelkes, a political scientist at the University of Pennsylvania, reports that voters in primary elections prefer candidates who are willing to take more extreme positions. “Partisans are reacting most favorably toward ideological extremists,” Lelkes wrote in an email: In fact, moderates are punished for the policies. Extreme politicians in the vein of Mike Lee and Elizabeth Warren, are rated roughly 20-25 points higher (on a 0 to 100 scale) by party identifiers than ideologically moderate politicians in the vein of Susan Collins and Joe Manchin. These effects are even larger among ideologically extreme respondents — the kind that vote in primary elections. Lelkes conducted experiments that asked participants to rate a number of hypothetical candidates, including a moderate Democrat, an “ideologically extreme” liberal Democrat, a moderate Republican and an “ideologically extreme” conservative Republican. He found that the most ideologically committed voters — who are disproportionately represented in primaries and caucuses — strongly preferred more extreme candidates: The impact of policy cues was particularly strong among respondents who themselves held strong policy positions. If a respondent was told that candidate held extreme in-party views, ideologically extreme respondents registered feeling thermometer ratings 35.89 points warmer than ideologically neutral respondents. Lelkes’s conclusion? If we are to decrease affective polarization in the United States, we need politicians that are politically moderate. Unfortunately, voters prefer politicians of their own party that are politically extreme. This incentivizes extreme political candidates, which will only exacerbate current tensions. There are dangers for both parties is these trends, Lelkes argues, citing a 2015 study of House elections, “What Happens When Extremists Win Primaries?” by Andrew Hall, a political scientist at Stanford. Hall found that when a more extreme candidate beats a moderate in the primary the party’s general-election vote share decreases on average by approximately 9—13 percentage points, and the probability that the party wins the seat decreases by 35—54 percentage points. Gallup data shows the steady ascendance within Democratic ranks of self-identified ideological liberals and a parallel decline in the share of Democrats who say they are moderate or conservative. From 1973 to 2018, as I have noted before, the percentage of Democrats who say they are liberal has grown from 25 to 51 percent, while the share of moderates has fallen from 48 to 31 percent, and the share of conservatives has dropped from 25 to 13 percent. A 2014 Pew study showed a steady process of ideological consolidation among both Republicans and Democrats since 1994, although consolidation accelerated most rapidly on the left: The share of Democrats who are liberal on all or most value dimensions has nearly doubled from just 30 percent in 1994 to 56 percent today. The share who are consistently liberal has quadrupled from just 5 percent to 23 percent over the past 20 years. In a reflection of their importance in primaries, “consistently liberal” Democrats turned out in elections at a 70 percent rate, compared with 47 percent for “mostly liberal” Democrats and 41 percent for Democrats with “mixed views,” according to Pew data. These and other trends, according to Lee Drutman, a senior fellow at the liberal New America think tank, represent the changing the mind-set of the Democratic electorate. In an email, Drutman wrote: Two related dynamics are operative. One, Democratic voters have moved to the left in response to Trump, and are eager for policies that signal transformative change, not just incrementalism. There is no return to normalcy, because the past is now seen as more flawed. This dynamic has intensified because the most engaged Democrats, Drutman writes, have bought into an argument that Hillary Clinton lost in 2016 because she was too incrementalist, and had she gone a little bolder and promised something more exciting than her competence and experience, she might have won. The second dynamic, Drutman continued, is that in a crowded field, candidates are seeking to distinguish themselves with grass-roots energy. A very effective way of generating grass-roots energy is attaching to transformative changes these policies signal. Incrementalism and moderation doesn’t generate much excitement among the activists or in coverage from journalists who are responsible for driving candidate buzz in these early stages. In a similar analysis, John Sides, a political scientist at George Washington University, argues that On race and immigration in particular, I think Trump is pushing Democrats to the left. To be clear, Hillary Clinton was already to Obama’s left even in 2016. But I think Trump’s rhetoric and agenda has made conservative positions on race and immigration even more anathema to Democrats. Sides also pointed out that the incentives for Democratic candidates have shifted: It used to be the case that Democratic candidates had to moderate on racial issues to maintain a Democratic coalition that included both blacks and some racially conservative whites. But the Democratic coalition has changed: it is increasingly made up of not only nonwhites but whites who espouse racially liberal attitudes. In an argument elaborating on a point made by Drutman, Edward Carmines, a political scientist at Indiana University, made the case that the 2016 defeat of Hillary Clinton fostered the shift to the left: If a moderate policy agenda cannot guarantee electoral victory why downplay your leftward policy orientations in the unlikely event that it will jeopardize your electoral success? Carmines added: Trump’s success has reinforced this perspective. He won with a very right-wing policy agenda. Perhaps a left-wing set of proposals can lead Democrats to similar success. Carmines believes that “both of these premises are mistaken and could very well lead Democrats to electoral defeat when victory is within sight.” Leonie Huddy, a political scientist at Stony Brook University, argues that the liberal tilt of the Democratic candidates is, in fact, a rational political strategy. “There is real change afoot with the most recent generations,” she wrote, citing a Pew study released in January: Young Republicans are especially different from older Republicans and the Democratic Party is likely to regard such findings as an invitation to poach more liberal young Republicans. Strong partisans, however, Huddy writes, “are unlikely to defect from the party in 2020 regardless of its issue agenda,” and political independents are younger, on average, than partisans. Appealing to young voters thus makes political sense when it comes to the general 2020 presidential election. Gary Jacobson, a political scientist at the University of California-San Diego, has a somewhat different take on the changing character of the Democratic electorate and the party’s presidential candidates. The candidates, Jacobson wrote by email, “are playing to their activist base whose enthusiasm helped produce their House victory in 2018.” He warned, however, that “leaning left does carry risks; there are not enough liberals (or progressives, if you prefer) to form a majority nationally or in the Electoral College.” In contemporary presidential campaigns, according to Jacobson, the tricky thing is that in an era of extremely high party line voting, turnout becomes enormously important. Trump has proven to be a great mobilizer of Democrats, but they still have to consider how enthusiastic ordinary Democrats will be about their nominee. Trump, Jacobson noted, will try to mobilize his base by ranting about “socialism” and of course some potential Democratic candidates will be more vulnerable to that charge than others. The strategic choices facing prospective Democratic nominees are, in the view of Lynn Vavreck, a political scientist at U.C.L.A., even more complex and subtle than those described by Jacobson. Taking very liberal stands on contested issues, she wrote me, might not pose “significant risks” if you think your minimum winning coalition of voters is made up of people who either share your preferences on these things, or for whom these policies are not pivotal in their vote decision. She elaborated: There are people for whom these issues are important, but for whom there’s no position a Democrat could take that would make them decide not to vote for that Democrat. There are other people, presumably, for whom these issues are so important and their preferences so intense, that any Democrat who takes a position far from their own is a Democrat for whom they won’t vote. It depends which type of people you think are in your winning coalition as to whether you stake out positions on these things. Matthew Nisbet, a professor of communication, public policy and urban affairs at Northeastern and editor in chief of the journal Environmental Communication, addressed only the support for a Green New Deal by some Democratic candidates. His view is pessimistic. In an email, he wrote: The Green New Deal has done damage to the Democratic Party’s chances heading into the 2020 elections, while hurting efforts to build momentum on behalf of climate and energy policy options capable of passing during an era of enduring divided government. In an article in the spring edition of Issues in Science and Technology, Nisbet contends that the goal of Green New Dealers is not to broker cross-alliances between the center-right, center-left, and left wing, drawing on the best ideas that those factions can offer, but rather to build progressive power. In an interesting development, the momentum behind the more radical Democratic agenda has turned both Barack Obama and Nancy Pelosi into defenders of the party’s old guard. Pelosi, who has been trying with mixed success to tamp down the left wing of the House Democratic caucus, recently described her views on Medicare for all in an interview with The Washington Post. At first she said, “I’m agnostic. Show me how you think you can get there.” But then she cautioned: So we’ll have hearings, again, let’s see what it is. Right now it’s a $30 trillion price tag. What do people get for that in terms of care, and what do they pay for that along the way? Implicit in her comment is the belief that $30 trillion is not acceptable to the American public. Obama, speaking at a town hall in Germany earlier this month, warned of the dangers of uncompromising ideology for the progressive wing of his party: One of the things I do worry about sometimes among progressives in the United States — maybe it’s true here as well — is a certain kind of rigidity where we say, ‘Uh, I’m sorry, this is how it’s going to be,’ and then we start sometimes creating what’s called a ‘circular firing squad,’ where you start shooting at your allies because one of them has strayed from purity on the issues. And when that happens, typically the overall effort and movement weakens. For the moment, both Obama and Pelosi are having minimal influence as far as the leftward thrust of the Democratic presidential nomination goes. Three years ago, Trump threw out conventional wisdom and went on to win the nomination and the presidency. Maybe, this time around, Democrats can gamble successfully on a similar strategy and win. Or maybe not.  The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Thomas B. Edsall has been a contributor to The Times Opinion section since 2011. His column on strategic and demographic trends in American politics appears every Wednesday. He previously covered politics for The Washington Post.   @edsall Supported by By The Associated Press NEW YORK — Newly arrested WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange needs to "answer for what he has done," Hillary Clinton said on Thursday. The 2016 Democratic presidential nominee and former secretary of state weighed in on Assange while at a speaking event with her husband, former President Bill Clinton. Assange was arrested earlier Thursday at the Ecuadorian Embassy in London, and the U.S. has charged him with conspiring with former Army intelligence analyst Chelsea Manning to break into a classified government computer at the Pentagon. WikiLeaks' publication of Democratic emails stolen by Russian intelligence officers during the 2016 election season hurt Clinton's presidential campaign. Donald Trump, Clinton's Republican opponent, frequently showered praise on Assange during the final weeks of the campaign and cheered on the release of damaging emails from Clinton's campaign manager, John Podesta. Assange was arrested after Ecuador revoked the political asylum that had kept him holed up at the embassy for nearly seven years. The U.S. is seeking Assange's extradition. Clinton said Thursday, "The bottom line is that he has to answer for what he has done, at least as it has been charged." In a tongue-in-cheek nod to Trump's hard-line immigration stance, Clinton added, "I do think it's a little ironic that he's the only foreigner this administration would welcome to the United States."

Supported by By The Associated Press NEW YORK — Newly arrested WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange needs to "answer for what he has done," Hillary Clinton said on Thursday. The 2016 Democratic presidential nominee and former secretary of state weighed in on Assange while at a speaking event with her husband, former President Bill Clinton. Assange was arrested earlier Thursday at the Ecuadorian Embassy in London, and the U.S. has charged him with conspiring with former Army intelligence analyst Chelsea Manning to break into a classified government computer at the Pentagon. WikiLeaks' publication of Democratic emails stolen by Russian intelligence officers during the 2016 election season hurt Clinton's presidential campaign. Donald Trump, Clinton's Republican opponent, frequently showered praise on Assange during the final weeks of the campaign and cheered on the release of damaging emails from Clinton's campaign manager, John Podesta. Assange was arrested after Ecuador revoked the political asylum that had kept him holed up at the embassy for nearly seven years. The U.S. is seeking Assange's extradition. Clinton said Thursday, "The bottom line is that he has to answer for what he has done, at least as it has been charged." In a tongue-in-cheek nod to Trump's hard-line immigration stance, Clinton added, "I do think it's a little ironic that he's the only foreigner this administration would welcome to the United States."Supported by Good Tuesday morning. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today. _____________________ • Democrats are split over whether the best path to the White House lies in the industrial heartland, where President Trump sealed his victory in 2016, or the Sun Belt, where states like Georgia and Arizona are growing more diverse — and possibly more blue. • Robert Mueller is often portrayed as the omnipotent fact-gatherer of the special counsel investigation. But there’s a lesser known figure playing a major role: Andrew D. Goldstein, who has conducted every major interview of the president’s advisers. • Shortly after Mr. Trump wraps up the first day of his summit meeting with Kim Jong-un in Vietnam, Michael Cohen, Mr. Trump’s former lawyer and fixer, will testify publicly against him before the House Oversight Committee. • South Korean officials have indicated that Mr. Trump and Mr. Kim could agree on a joint political statement declaring an end to the 1950-53 Korean War. • Mr. Trump backed off his threat to raise tariffs on Chinese goods. But if he doesn’t win tough concessions from Beijing, that decision could become a political liability in 2020. • Bernie Sanders raised $10 million in the first week of his 2020 campaign for president. Adding to that feat, nearly 40 percent of donations came from new email addresses — meaning his base is growing. • Senator Elizabeth Warren has escalated her presidential campaign’s battle against big money in politics, announcing that she would no longer hold the private fund-raisers and one-on-one meetings with big donors that have become typical. • A woman who worked on Mr. Trump’s 2016 presidential campaign sued him in federal court on Monday, saying that he forcibly kissed her at a campaign event in Florida months before the election. • Labor Secretary R. Alexander Acosta is facing rising pressure over the lenient plea bargain that he helped negotiate with Jeffrey Epstein, a wealthy Trump acquaintance accused of trafficking children for sex. • Democrats appealed to Republicans to protect Congress’s constitutional power ahead of a House vote to kill Mr. Trump’s declaration of a national emergency on the border. Republican leaders scrambled to keep rank-and-file members from defecting. • In The Times Magazine, a look at Senator Lindsey Graham’s transformation from Trump skeptic to Trump sidekick. “What happened to me?” Mr. Graham said. “Not a damn thing.” _____________________ Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.

Supported by Good Tuesday morning. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today. _____________________ • Democrats are split over whether the best path to the White House lies in the industrial heartland, where President Trump sealed his victory in 2016, or the Sun Belt, where states like Georgia and Arizona are growing more diverse — and possibly more blue. • Robert Mueller is often portrayed as the omnipotent fact-gatherer of the special counsel investigation. But there’s a lesser known figure playing a major role: Andrew D. Goldstein, who has conducted every major interview of the president’s advisers. • Shortly after Mr. Trump wraps up the first day of his summit meeting with Kim Jong-un in Vietnam, Michael Cohen, Mr. Trump’s former lawyer and fixer, will testify publicly against him before the House Oversight Committee. • South Korean officials have indicated that Mr. Trump and Mr. Kim could agree on a joint political statement declaring an end to the 1950-53 Korean War. • Mr. Trump backed off his threat to raise tariffs on Chinese goods. But if he doesn’t win tough concessions from Beijing, that decision could become a political liability in 2020. • Bernie Sanders raised $10 million in the first week of his 2020 campaign for president. Adding to that feat, nearly 40 percent of donations came from new email addresses — meaning his base is growing. • Senator Elizabeth Warren has escalated her presidential campaign’s battle against big money in politics, announcing that she would no longer hold the private fund-raisers and one-on-one meetings with big donors that have become typical. • A woman who worked on Mr. Trump’s 2016 presidential campaign sued him in federal court on Monday, saying that he forcibly kissed her at a campaign event in Florida months before the election. • Labor Secretary R. Alexander Acosta is facing rising pressure over the lenient plea bargain that he helped negotiate with Jeffrey Epstein, a wealthy Trump acquaintance accused of trafficking children for sex. • Democrats appealed to Republicans to protect Congress’s constitutional power ahead of a House vote to kill Mr. Trump’s declaration of a national emergency on the border. Republican leaders scrambled to keep rank-and-file members from defecting. • In The Times Magazine, a look at Senator Lindsey Graham’s transformation from Trump skeptic to Trump sidekick. “What happened to me?” Mr. Graham said. “Not a damn thing.” _____________________ Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.Supported by By Jonathan Martin WASHINGTON — Beto O’Rourke raised more than $6 million online in the first 24 hours after announcing his presidential campaign last week, according to his campaign, outpacing his rivals for the Democratic nomination and making an emphatic statement about his grass-roots financial strength. Mr. O’Rourke brought in $6,136,736 after declaring his long-anticipated bid with a web video and trip to Iowa on Thursday morning, raising the sum entirely online and from all 50 states, the campaign said. He narrowly beat the first-day haul of Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, who raised $5.9 million after announcing his bid last month and who would go on to raise $10 million before his first week was over. [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join our conversation about the 2020 presidential race.] Mr. O’Rourke’s early burst of fund-raising illustrates how much he has captured the imagination of many Democratic activists around the country, who propelled him to break financial records last year in his ultimately losing bid to unseat Senator Ted Cruz of Texas. There were some doubts as to whether those same grass-roots donors would also contribute to him when he was not facing Mr. Cruz — a figure detested on the left — but rather was one more entrant in a sprawling presidential primary. Mr. O’Rourke’s money will, at least for now, quiet some of those skeptics: In a single day online, he raised nearly a quarter of what Barack Obama, then a senator, did in the entire first quarter of 2007. Now the question is whether he can sustain that level of support. Mr. Sanders raised his first $10 million quickly in February, much of it in small contributions. There is no way to independently confirm either candidate’s initial contributions; Mr. O’Rourke, Mr. Sanders and the rest of the presidential hopefuls must file fund-raising reports at the end of March. Those first-quarter filings will be made public on April 15. Mr. Sanders sought to capitalize Monday on Mr. O’Rourke’s early haul, emailing supporters to highlight his rival’s fund-raising. ”Beto O’Rourke announced that he raised more money than us on the first day of his presidential campaign,” Mr. Sanders wrote, before asking for additional contributions. The senator also wrote that he “more than likely had a lot more individual donations” than Mr. O’Rourke. Mr. Sanders did not offer any evidence, but he released his total number of donors in the first 24 hours of his campaign — 223,047 — and Mr. O’Rourke declined to do so. Few other candidates have trumpeted their initial financial success, in part because they knew that Mr. Sanders would tap into his loyal network of support from his 2016 presidential race and post a large figure. The campaign of Senator Kamala Harris of California, however, did say she raised $1.5 million in the first day after announcing her candidacy in January. [Check out our tracker of the 2020 Democratic candidate field.] Mr. O’Rourke’s aides would not say what their average contribution was or how many total donors contributed within the first 24 hours of his bid. As in his Senate race, he did not accept any money from political action committees. After announcing his candidacy, Mr. O’Rourke spent three days in Iowa, focusing on counties President Trump carried in 2016, before heading to Wisconsin, part of a multistate Midwestern tour.   

Supported by By Jonathan Martin WASHINGTON — Beto O’Rourke raised more than $6 million online in the first 24 hours after announcing his presidential campaign last week, according to his campaign, outpacing his rivals for the Democratic nomination and making an emphatic statement about his grass-roots financial strength. Mr. O’Rourke brought in $6,136,736 after declaring his long-anticipated bid with a web video and trip to Iowa on Thursday morning, raising the sum entirely online and from all 50 states, the campaign said. He narrowly beat the first-day haul of Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, who raised $5.9 million after announcing his bid last month and who would go on to raise $10 million before his first week was over. [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join our conversation about the 2020 presidential race.] Mr. O’Rourke’s early burst of fund-raising illustrates how much he has captured the imagination of many Democratic activists around the country, who propelled him to break financial records last year in his ultimately losing bid to unseat Senator Ted Cruz of Texas. There were some doubts as to whether those same grass-roots donors would also contribute to him when he was not facing Mr. Cruz — a figure detested on the left — but rather was one more entrant in a sprawling presidential primary. Mr. O’Rourke’s money will, at least for now, quiet some of those skeptics: In a single day online, he raised nearly a quarter of what Barack Obama, then a senator, did in the entire first quarter of 2007. Now the question is whether he can sustain that level of support. Mr. Sanders raised his first $10 million quickly in February, much of it in small contributions. There is no way to independently confirm either candidate’s initial contributions; Mr. O’Rourke, Mr. Sanders and the rest of the presidential hopefuls must file fund-raising reports at the end of March. Those first-quarter filings will be made public on April 15. Mr. Sanders sought to capitalize Monday on Mr. O’Rourke’s early haul, emailing supporters to highlight his rival’s fund-raising. ”Beto O’Rourke announced that he raised more money than us on the first day of his presidential campaign,” Mr. Sanders wrote, before asking for additional contributions. The senator also wrote that he “more than likely had a lot more individual donations” than Mr. O’Rourke. Mr. Sanders did not offer any evidence, but he released his total number of donors in the first 24 hours of his campaign — 223,047 — and Mr. O’Rourke declined to do so. Few other candidates have trumpeted their initial financial success, in part because they knew that Mr. Sanders would tap into his loyal network of support from his 2016 presidential race and post a large figure. The campaign of Senator Kamala Harris of California, however, did say she raised $1.5 million in the first day after announcing her candidacy in January. [Check out our tracker of the 2020 Democratic candidate field.] Mr. O’Rourke’s aides would not say what their average contribution was or how many total donors contributed within the first 24 hours of his bid. As in his Senate race, he did not accept any money from political action committees. After announcing his candidacy, Mr. O’Rourke spent three days in Iowa, focusing on counties President Trump carried in 2016, before heading to Wisconsin, part of a multistate Midwestern tour.   Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — U.S. President Donald Trump said on Wednesday he had not seen or read a report into Russian election meddling by Special Counsel Robert Mueller, a day after his attorney general would not say whether he had briefed the White House or shared the report. Attorney General William Barr on Tuesday declined to say whether he had briefed the White House or shown them the report when questioned at a congressional hearing.  "I have not read the Mueller report, I haven't seen the Mueller report. As far as I'm concerned I don't care about the Mueller report. I've been totally exonerated. No collusion, no obstruction," Trump told reporters at the White House.  Barr told lawmakers at a hearing he intended to release "within a week" a redacted version of the long-awaited report, which Mueller submitted to Barr on March 22 after a 22-month investigation. The 400-page report is expected to shed light on some of the more contentious episodes of Trump's election bid and presidency, including his firing of FBI Director James Comey in 2017 and his campaign's contacts with Russians.  In a March 24 letter to Congress, Barr said Mueller's investigation did not establish that members of Trump's presidential campaign had conspired with Russia.  He said Mueller presented evidence "on both sides" about whether Trump obstructed justice, but did not draw a conclusion one way or the other. Barr said the White House did not review his letter to Congress laying out Mueller's findings before he sent it.  (Reporting by Steve Holland; Writing by Doina Chiacu; Editing by Bernadette Baum)

Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — U.S. President Donald Trump said on Wednesday he had not seen or read a report into Russian election meddling by Special Counsel Robert Mueller, a day after his attorney general would not say whether he had briefed the White House or shared the report. Attorney General William Barr on Tuesday declined to say whether he had briefed the White House or shown them the report when questioned at a congressional hearing.  "I have not read the Mueller report, I haven't seen the Mueller report. As far as I'm concerned I don't care about the Mueller report. I've been totally exonerated. No collusion, no obstruction," Trump told reporters at the White House.  Barr told lawmakers at a hearing he intended to release "within a week" a redacted version of the long-awaited report, which Mueller submitted to Barr on March 22 after a 22-month investigation. The 400-page report is expected to shed light on some of the more contentious episodes of Trump's election bid and presidency, including his firing of FBI Director James Comey in 2017 and his campaign's contacts with Russians.  In a March 24 letter to Congress, Barr said Mueller's investigation did not establish that members of Trump's presidential campaign had conspired with Russia.  He said Mueller presented evidence "on both sides" about whether Trump obstructed justice, but did not draw a conclusion one way or the other. Barr said the White House did not review his letter to Congress laying out Mueller's findings before he sent it.  (Reporting by Steve Holland; Writing by Doina Chiacu; Editing by Bernadette Baum)Supported by By The Associated Press TAMARAC, Fla. — A Florida man unleashed threatening rants over the phone against three Democratic members of Congress, as he raged against gun control, illegal immigration, homosexuals, black people and Muslims, authorities said. John Kless, 49, was arrested Friday and charged with making threatening communications, the U.S. Attorney's Office said in a news release. Kless called the Washington offices of Rep. Eric Swalwell of California, Rep. Rashida Tlaib of Michigan and Sen. Cory Booker of New Jersey on Tuesday and left profanity-laden voicemails for each politician, a federal criminal complaint said. Swalwell and Booker are both running for president. The messages specifically mentioned the elected officials being killed. "The day you come after our guns ... is the day you'll be dead," Kless said in his message to Swalwell, authorities said. Swalwell has focused much of his presidential campaign on gun control. Messages left for Tlaib and Booker seemed to reference a recent viral video shared by President Donald Trump that purports to show Rep. Ilhan Omar of Minnesota, a Muslim, being dismissive of the 9/11 terrorist attacks. Democrats have criticized the video, with some accusing Trump of purposefully trying to incite violence against Omar. "You definitely don't tell our president, Donald Trump, what to say," Kless said to Tlaib, according to officials. Investigators traced the phone number back to Kless, who lives in Tamarac, Florida, the complaint said. U.S. Capitol Police previously investigated Kless for a message left in February for Democratic House Speaker Nancy Pelosi. Swalwell tweeted his thanks Friday to the Capitol Police for protecting his staff and constituents. Court records didn't list an attorney for Kless.

Supported by By The Associated Press TAMARAC, Fla. — A Florida man unleashed threatening rants over the phone against three Democratic members of Congress, as he raged against gun control, illegal immigration, homosexuals, black people and Muslims, authorities said. John Kless, 49, was arrested Friday and charged with making threatening communications, the U.S. Attorney's Office said in a news release. Kless called the Washington offices of Rep. Eric Swalwell of California, Rep. Rashida Tlaib of Michigan and Sen. Cory Booker of New Jersey on Tuesday and left profanity-laden voicemails for each politician, a federal criminal complaint said. Swalwell and Booker are both running for president. The messages specifically mentioned the elected officials being killed. "The day you come after our guns ... is the day you'll be dead," Kless said in his message to Swalwell, authorities said. Swalwell has focused much of his presidential campaign on gun control. Messages left for Tlaib and Booker seemed to reference a recent viral video shared by President Donald Trump that purports to show Rep. Ilhan Omar of Minnesota, a Muslim, being dismissive of the 9/11 terrorist attacks. Democrats have criticized the video, with some accusing Trump of purposefully trying to incite violence against Omar. "You definitely don't tell our president, Donald Trump, what to say," Kless said to Tlaib, according to officials. Investigators traced the phone number back to Kless, who lives in Tamarac, Florida, the complaint said. U.S. Capitol Police previously investigated Kless for a message left in February for Democratic House Speaker Nancy Pelosi. Swalwell tweeted his thanks Friday to the Capitol Police for protecting his staff and constituents. Court records didn't list an attorney for Kless.Supported by By Kevin Draper Major League Baseball and the Chicago Cubs moved to distance themselves from one of their own Tuesday, after the news outlet Splinter published a cache of racist emails sent and received by Joe Ricketts, the billionaire whose family owns the Chicago Cubs and Wrigley Field. Many of the published emails, sent between 2009 to 2013, focused on a fear of Muslims and contained conspiracy theories about former President Barack Obama. The false assertion that Obama, who identifies as Protestant, was Muslim and born outside the United States were prevalent in right-wing politics during his presidency. In one email, Ricketts wrote to somebody identified only as S.V. that “Christians and Jews can have a mutual respect for each other to create a civil society,” but “Islam cannot do that.” He went on to write that, “we cannot ever let Islam become a large part of our society,” and that “Muslims are naturally my (our) enemy.” Major League Baseball released a statement condemning the emails but seemingly tried to absolve Ricketts of some responsibility. “While many of the emails were not written by Mr. Ricketts, the content is extremely offensive and completely at odds with the values and principles of Major League Baseball,” the statement said. In a statement on his website, Ricketts apologized for his emails. “I deeply regret and apologize for some of the exchanges I had in my emails,” he wrote. “Sometimes I received emails that I should have condemned. Other times I’ve said things that don’t reflect my value system. I strongly believe that bigoted ideas are wrong.” Tom Ricketts, chairman of the Cubs, denounced his father’s emails in a statement and tried to distance the Cubs from him. “We are aware of the racially insensitive emails in my father’s account that were published by an online media outlet,” the statement read. “Let me be clear: The language and views expressed in those emails have no place in our society.” Tom Ricketts continued: “My father is not involved with the operation of the Chicago Cubs in any way.” The Cubs are owned through a trust the Ricketts family controls. Joe Ricketts, who earned his fortune as the founder and chairman of brokerage TD Ameritrade, and his wife Marlene, sold $403 million of stock to finance the purchase. Ricketts’s four children run the Cubs day to day. Tom Ricketts is the chairman; on the board of directors are Pete Ricketts, the Republican governor of Nebraska; Todd Ricketts, finance chairman of the Republican National Committee; and Laura Ricketts, who was a major bundler for the presidential campaigns of Obama and former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. The Ricketts family purchased a 95 percent stake in the Cubs and Wrigley Field from the Tribune Company in 2009. In other sports leagues, offensive behavior has led to owners selling their franchises. Donald Sterling was forced to sell the Los Angeles Clippers of the N.B.A. after a tape of him making racist comments became public. Sterling was banned from the league for life. Jerry Richardson, the owner of the N.F.L.’s Carolina Panthers, announced he would sell his team shortly after a report came out that revealed he had been accused of sexually harassing employees and making racist comments. In September, the N.B.A. fined Mark Cuban, the owner of the Dallas Mavericks, for the way he and team officials handled sexual harassment complaints. For Joe Ricketts, this is not the first time his political activities have harmed the Cubs. He is a major funder of conservative causes and gave $1 million to a political action committee supporting Donald Trump during his presidential campaign. In 2012, The New York Times reported that Joe Ricketts was considering spending $10 million on a campaign that would attack Obama’s connection to Reverend Jeremiah Wright, a former spiritual adviser who Obama denounced during the 2008 presidential campaign. At the same time, the Cubs were asking Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel for $300 million in public money, as part of a $500 million renovation of Wrigley Field and the surrounding area. Emanuel, who served in the White House as Obama’s chief of staff, was reportedly “livid” over the proposed campaign, and stopped talking to Cubs officials about the renovation shortly thereafter. The Ricketts family ultimately financed the renovations privately. Those renovations are ongoing. In a statement Tuesday, Emanuel condemned the emails. “Joe Ricketts once said that I do not share his values. Truer words were never spoken,” he said. “The ignorance and intolerance he has espoused are not welcome in Chicago. I am proud not to share his bigoted opinions. Hate has no home in Chicago.” Email Kevin Draper at kevin.draper@nytimes.com or follow him on Twitter: @kevinmdraper.   

Supported by By Kevin Draper Major League Baseball and the Chicago Cubs moved to distance themselves from one of their own Tuesday, after the news outlet Splinter published a cache of racist emails sent and received by Joe Ricketts, the billionaire whose family owns the Chicago Cubs and Wrigley Field. Many of the published emails, sent between 2009 to 2013, focused on a fear of Muslims and contained conspiracy theories about former President Barack Obama. The false assertion that Obama, who identifies as Protestant, was Muslim and born outside the United States were prevalent in right-wing politics during his presidency. In one email, Ricketts wrote to somebody identified only as S.V. that “Christians and Jews can have a mutual respect for each other to create a civil society,” but “Islam cannot do that.” He went on to write that, “we cannot ever let Islam become a large part of our society,” and that “Muslims are naturally my (our) enemy.” Major League Baseball released a statement condemning the emails but seemingly tried to absolve Ricketts of some responsibility. “While many of the emails were not written by Mr. Ricketts, the content is extremely offensive and completely at odds with the values and principles of Major League Baseball,” the statement said. In a statement on his website, Ricketts apologized for his emails. “I deeply regret and apologize for some of the exchanges I had in my emails,” he wrote. “Sometimes I received emails that I should have condemned. Other times I’ve said things that don’t reflect my value system. I strongly believe that bigoted ideas are wrong.” Tom Ricketts, chairman of the Cubs, denounced his father’s emails in a statement and tried to distance the Cubs from him. “We are aware of the racially insensitive emails in my father’s account that were published by an online media outlet,” the statement read. “Let me be clear: The language and views expressed in those emails have no place in our society.” Tom Ricketts continued: “My father is not involved with the operation of the Chicago Cubs in any way.” The Cubs are owned through a trust the Ricketts family controls. Joe Ricketts, who earned his fortune as the founder and chairman of brokerage TD Ameritrade, and his wife Marlene, sold $403 million of stock to finance the purchase. Ricketts’s four children run the Cubs day to day. Tom Ricketts is the chairman; on the board of directors are Pete Ricketts, the Republican governor of Nebraska; Todd Ricketts, finance chairman of the Republican National Committee; and Laura Ricketts, who was a major bundler for the presidential campaigns of Obama and former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. The Ricketts family purchased a 95 percent stake in the Cubs and Wrigley Field from the Tribune Company in 2009. In other sports leagues, offensive behavior has led to owners selling their franchises. Donald Sterling was forced to sell the Los Angeles Clippers of the N.B.A. after a tape of him making racist comments became public. Sterling was banned from the league for life. Jerry Richardson, the owner of the N.F.L.’s Carolina Panthers, announced he would sell his team shortly after a report came out that revealed he had been accused of sexually harassing employees and making racist comments. In September, the N.B.A. fined Mark Cuban, the owner of the Dallas Mavericks, for the way he and team officials handled sexual harassment complaints. For Joe Ricketts, this is not the first time his political activities have harmed the Cubs. He is a major funder of conservative causes and gave $1 million to a political action committee supporting Donald Trump during his presidential campaign. In 2012, The New York Times reported that Joe Ricketts was considering spending $10 million on a campaign that would attack Obama’s connection to Reverend Jeremiah Wright, a former spiritual adviser who Obama denounced during the 2008 presidential campaign. At the same time, the Cubs were asking Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel for $300 million in public money, as part of a $500 million renovation of Wrigley Field and the surrounding area. Emanuel, who served in the White House as Obama’s chief of staff, was reportedly “livid” over the proposed campaign, and stopped talking to Cubs officials about the renovation shortly thereafter. The Ricketts family ultimately financed the renovations privately. Those renovations are ongoing. In a statement Tuesday, Emanuel condemned the emails. “Joe Ricketts once said that I do not share his values. Truer words were never spoken,” he said. “The ignorance and intolerance he has espoused are not welcome in Chicago. I am proud not to share his bigoted opinions. Hate has no home in Chicago.” Email Kevin Draper at kevin.draper@nytimes.com or follow him on Twitter: @kevinmdraper.   Supported by By Astead W. Herndon Alexandra Rojas was shocked. So was Waleed Shahid. The two vocal leaders of Justice Democrats, an advocacy group whose uncompromising style has made it a nuisance among Washington traditionalists, had a meeting request from aides to Senator Elizabeth Warren, who was fresh into her presidential campaign. As Ms. Warren sought to push the party to the left by proposing expansive liberal policy ideas, her team was prepared to seek counsel from organizations that did the same. “They want us in their court,” Ms. Rojas said. “They know that if they want to win, they need to have the support from the grass-roots energy.” Ms. Warren’s willingness to look outside the traditional pool of political aides underscores the extent to which activism and ideology are shaping the makeup of campaign staffs for Democratic candidates, even at the highest levels. Neither Ms. Rojas nor Mr. Shahid received a job offer, but in a crowded field where candidates are looking to stand out, activists fluent in the language of social movements are gaining value as important allies. Julián Castro hired as his campaign manager Maya Rupert, a campaign novice who made her name in organizing with the Center for Reproductive Rights and the National Center for Lesbian Rights. Senator Bernie Sanders has expanded his close-knit group of strategists and tapped Faiz Shakir, the former political director for the American Civil Liberties Union, to run his new-look presidential campaign. As the primary process kicks into full swing, some Democrats are bypassing the kind of experienced Washington “wiseguys” who operated in the caldron of beltway politics — famous strategists like David Axelrod, James Carville and, more recently, Robby Mook. Instead, campaigns are increasingly filling senior positions with a new generation of activist-driven operatives, whose political formation took place in grass-roots movements. The shift has resulted in greater staff diversity than in previous cycles, but it has also influenced strategy, according to campaign officials. New voices are joining with election-cycle veterans to bring fresh ideas and political approaches to the presidential stage. Mr. Castro, for instance, plans to diverge from the traditional early primary state road map in favor of a tour of all 50 states. Ms. Warren has pledged to eschew all private fund-raising, an unheard-of step in presidential politics that was fueled by her campaign’s chief architect, Dan Geldon, who shares Ms. Warren’s distaste for Wall Street and a willingness to take political risks. [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join our conversation about the 2020 presidential race.] Mr. Sanders is emphasizing his personal biography more and engaging in more explicit discussions of racial inequality. Senator Kamala Harris, the California Democrat who has often relied on a trusted group of California advisers, has taken pains to find senior staff members with grass-roots credentials as she attempts to fashion herself as the candidate “for the people.” “The shifts that we’re seeing in the Democratic Party are a lot of folks demanding that their leadership take ideas that have been considered on the fringe and push them to the center,” said Ms. Rupert, Mr. Castro’s campaign manager. “And that’s the way movements operate.” Mr. Castro’s campaign is also paying its interns a $15 minimum wage and said it would support any effort among staff members to form a union. And Mr. Sanders’s campaign announced last week that its staff would become the first presidential campaign work force to be unionized. Kelly Dietrich, the longtime Democratic consultant, said the surge in Democratic voter enthusiasm since President Trump’s election has helped issue-driven activists become more interested in traditional electoral politics. It has also forced campaigns to take new ideas more seriously, he said. [Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.] “We’re seeing a lot more people across the spectrum, both in terms of diversity and political agenda, step forward and want to make change,” said Mr. Dietrich, who founded a campaign training organization called the National Democratic Training Committee. They are “fed up or scared; they are frustrated and are ready to fight back.” The Democratic Party needs to bring in these activists, Mr. Dietrich said, “so that five years, 10 years, 15 years down the road, this is the norm.” The shift reflects a growing realization among many Democrats that the party’s most fervent energy resides on its left flank. Democrats swept to power in the House in last year’s midterm elections, and the most popular members of the party’s new class are the women of color who pushed the party even further left, empowered by groups including Justice Democrats. Rather than fight that new energy, some 2020 hopefuls have decided to court it. Richard McDaniel, who helped engineer the surprise victory for Senator Doug Jones of Alabama in 2017, joined Ms. Warren’s campaign as field director. Rebecca Pearcey, formerly of the Democratic Legislative Campaign Committee, an organization that works to elect Democrats to state legislatures, was a surprise choice as Ms. Warren’s national political director. In terms of racial diversity, Ms. Harris has led the way, with 12 senior staff members who are women of color, out of 17 total. That includes Julie Chavez Rodriguez, the activist granddaughter of the labor leader Cesar Chavez. Ms. Rodriguez was instrumental in helping Ms. Harris secure the endorsement of Dolores Huerta, the California labor leader who, along with Mr. Chavez, founded the United Farm Workers. Another member of Ms. Harris’s team is Laphonza Butler, the former president of the Service Employees International Union in California. She said activists were more likely to see electoral politics as valuable in this era because of the moral urgency that Mr. Trump’s administration has instilled among liberals. “We’re asking ourselves these really existential questions about what are we going to be as a nation,” said Ms. Butler, who is a senior adviser to Ms. Harris. “And I had to choose how to best continue the work that I’ve been doing as an advocate for workers and a voice for workers — and working for Senator Harris is a continuation of that.” Mr. McDaniel, Ms. Warren’s field director, said the shift had been building since President Barack Obama ushered in an era of internet-driven, grass-roots organizing. “The rule book went out the door with President Obama, kind of, how you engage communities,” Mr. McDaniel said. “It’s old-school tactics, but you need to have a new mind frame of thinking.” But some in the party have warned that the embracing of activists could be more about optics than an actual shift in political power and that the bulk of decision making will still reside with the political strategy firms that have long been influential in electoral politics. Ms. Harris’s campaign, for example, has deep ties to big political names such as the longtime California consultant Averell Smith, the Democratic strategist also known as Ace who helped her orchestrate several campaigns in advance of her presidential run. “The proof will be in the pudding,” said Jess Morales Rocketto, the political director of the National Domestic Workers Alliance and a former staff member on Hillary Clinton’s 2016 campaign. “Like who’s getting to decide the budgets, who’s getting to decide where the candidate goes, who’s getting to decide the targeting? Is that the people of color that they hired?” Ms. Morales Rocketto urged the campaigns to see employees from non-Washington backgrounds as more than just an attempt to “check boxes.” She said one current presidential campaign had explicitly told her recently that it was calling her because it needed a “senior Latina with movement credibility.” “It would be a damn shame if all they did was catch up to the optics,” she added. Heather McGhee, the former president of the progressive advocacy group Demos has not signed onto a 2020 campaign but said she had been contacted personally by Ms. Harris and Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey — though she remains a close ally of Ms. Warren’s. Her counsel was particularly valued after Demos’s political arm published a much-lauded 2018 paper on how candidates should fuse analysis of race and class, a key focus of the progressive message. “To see the soul of the new Democratic Party, you can look to the candidate’s advisers and ask whether they came from activism or professional consultant class,” Ms. McGhee said. One new idea was on display when Ms. Harris held a recent campaign rally in Nevada. During the event, aides passed out headsets to Spanish-speaking residents so that the candidate’s words could be translated in real time, a move widely praised as an effective way to reach new voters in the immigrant-rich West. It came from Ms. Butler, who said it was a “no-brainer” from her time in union organizing.   

Supported by By Astead W. Herndon Alexandra Rojas was shocked. So was Waleed Shahid. The two vocal leaders of Justice Democrats, an advocacy group whose uncompromising style has made it a nuisance among Washington traditionalists, had a meeting request from aides to Senator Elizabeth Warren, who was fresh into her presidential campaign. As Ms. Warren sought to push the party to the left by proposing expansive liberal policy ideas, her team was prepared to seek counsel from organizations that did the same. “They want us in their court,” Ms. Rojas said. “They know that if they want to win, they need to have the support from the grass-roots energy.” Ms. Warren’s willingness to look outside the traditional pool of political aides underscores the extent to which activism and ideology are shaping the makeup of campaign staffs for Democratic candidates, even at the highest levels. Neither Ms. Rojas nor Mr. Shahid received a job offer, but in a crowded field where candidates are looking to stand out, activists fluent in the language of social movements are gaining value as important allies. Julián Castro hired as his campaign manager Maya Rupert, a campaign novice who made her name in organizing with the Center for Reproductive Rights and the National Center for Lesbian Rights. Senator Bernie Sanders has expanded his close-knit group of strategists and tapped Faiz Shakir, the former political director for the American Civil Liberties Union, to run his new-look presidential campaign. As the primary process kicks into full swing, some Democrats are bypassing the kind of experienced Washington “wiseguys” who operated in the caldron of beltway politics — famous strategists like David Axelrod, James Carville and, more recently, Robby Mook. Instead, campaigns are increasingly filling senior positions with a new generation of activist-driven operatives, whose political formation took place in grass-roots movements. The shift has resulted in greater staff diversity than in previous cycles, but it has also influenced strategy, according to campaign officials. New voices are joining with election-cycle veterans to bring fresh ideas and political approaches to the presidential stage. Mr. Castro, for instance, plans to diverge from the traditional early primary state road map in favor of a tour of all 50 states. Ms. Warren has pledged to eschew all private fund-raising, an unheard-of step in presidential politics that was fueled by her campaign’s chief architect, Dan Geldon, who shares Ms. Warren’s distaste for Wall Street and a willingness to take political risks. [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join our conversation about the 2020 presidential race.] Mr. Sanders is emphasizing his personal biography more and engaging in more explicit discussions of racial inequality. Senator Kamala Harris, the California Democrat who has often relied on a trusted group of California advisers, has taken pains to find senior staff members with grass-roots credentials as she attempts to fashion herself as the candidate “for the people.” “The shifts that we’re seeing in the Democratic Party are a lot of folks demanding that their leadership take ideas that have been considered on the fringe and push them to the center,” said Ms. Rupert, Mr. Castro’s campaign manager. “And that’s the way movements operate.” Mr. Castro’s campaign is also paying its interns a $15 minimum wage and said it would support any effort among staff members to form a union. And Mr. Sanders’s campaign announced last week that its staff would become the first presidential campaign work force to be unionized. Kelly Dietrich, the longtime Democratic consultant, said the surge in Democratic voter enthusiasm since President Trump’s election has helped issue-driven activists become more interested in traditional electoral politics. It has also forced campaigns to take new ideas more seriously, he said. [Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.] “We’re seeing a lot more people across the spectrum, both in terms of diversity and political agenda, step forward and want to make change,” said Mr. Dietrich, who founded a campaign training organization called the National Democratic Training Committee. They are “fed up or scared; they are frustrated and are ready to fight back.” The Democratic Party needs to bring in these activists, Mr. Dietrich said, “so that five years, 10 years, 15 years down the road, this is the norm.” The shift reflects a growing realization among many Democrats that the party’s most fervent energy resides on its left flank. Democrats swept to power in the House in last year’s midterm elections, and the most popular members of the party’s new class are the women of color who pushed the party even further left, empowered by groups including Justice Democrats. Rather than fight that new energy, some 2020 hopefuls have decided to court it. Richard McDaniel, who helped engineer the surprise victory for Senator Doug Jones of Alabama in 2017, joined Ms. Warren’s campaign as field director. Rebecca Pearcey, formerly of the Democratic Legislative Campaign Committee, an organization that works to elect Democrats to state legislatures, was a surprise choice as Ms. Warren’s national political director. In terms of racial diversity, Ms. Harris has led the way, with 12 senior staff members who are women of color, out of 17 total. That includes Julie Chavez Rodriguez, the activist granddaughter of the labor leader Cesar Chavez. Ms. Rodriguez was instrumental in helping Ms. Harris secure the endorsement of Dolores Huerta, the California labor leader who, along with Mr. Chavez, founded the United Farm Workers. Another member of Ms. Harris’s team is Laphonza Butler, the former president of the Service Employees International Union in California. She said activists were more likely to see electoral politics as valuable in this era because of the moral urgency that Mr. Trump’s administration has instilled among liberals. “We’re asking ourselves these really existential questions about what are we going to be as a nation,” said Ms. Butler, who is a senior adviser to Ms. Harris. “And I had to choose how to best continue the work that I’ve been doing as an advocate for workers and a voice for workers — and working for Senator Harris is a continuation of that.” Mr. McDaniel, Ms. Warren’s field director, said the shift had been building since President Barack Obama ushered in an era of internet-driven, grass-roots organizing. “The rule book went out the door with President Obama, kind of, how you engage communities,” Mr. McDaniel said. “It’s old-school tactics, but you need to have a new mind frame of thinking.” But some in the party have warned that the embracing of activists could be more about optics than an actual shift in political power and that the bulk of decision making will still reside with the political strategy firms that have long been influential in electoral politics. Ms. Harris’s campaign, for example, has deep ties to big political names such as the longtime California consultant Averell Smith, the Democratic strategist also known as Ace who helped her orchestrate several campaigns in advance of her presidential run. “The proof will be in the pudding,” said Jess Morales Rocketto, the political director of the National Domestic Workers Alliance and a former staff member on Hillary Clinton’s 2016 campaign. “Like who’s getting to decide the budgets, who’s getting to decide where the candidate goes, who’s getting to decide the targeting? Is that the people of color that they hired?” Ms. Morales Rocketto urged the campaigns to see employees from non-Washington backgrounds as more than just an attempt to “check boxes.” She said one current presidential campaign had explicitly told her recently that it was calling her because it needed a “senior Latina with movement credibility.” “It would be a damn shame if all they did was catch up to the optics,” she added. Heather McGhee, the former president of the progressive advocacy group Demos has not signed onto a 2020 campaign but said she had been contacted personally by Ms. Harris and Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey — though she remains a close ally of Ms. Warren’s. Her counsel was particularly valued after Demos’s political arm published a much-lauded 2018 paper on how candidates should fuse analysis of race and class, a key focus of the progressive message. “To see the soul of the new Democratic Party, you can look to the candidate’s advisers and ask whether they came from activism or professional consultant class,” Ms. McGhee said. One new idea was on display when Ms. Harris held a recent campaign rally in Nevada. During the event, aides passed out headsets to Spanish-speaking residents so that the candidate’s words could be translated in real time, a move widely praised as an effective way to reach new voters in the immigrant-rich West. It came from Ms. Butler, who said it was a “no-brainer” from her time in union organizing.   Supported by The advent of Beto O’Rourke’s presidential candidacy has Democrats arguing ferociously among themselves. By Thomas B. Edsall Mr. Edsall contributes a weekly column from Washington, D.C. on politics, demographics and inequality. Within days of his announcement that he was running for the Democratic presidential nomination, Beto O’Rourke shot up in the rankings in terms of money, media coverage and Google searches.  Then the knives came out — progressives, women, African-Americans and party loyalists all took a stab at him. The response to Beto is polarizing the Democratic activist community. The overriding question for Democrats is electability: who can beat Trump is a matter of pressing concern and profound anxiety for at least half the nation. The wrong choice would be disastrous. Let’s start with O’Rourke’s negatives and we’ll get to the positives later. “I’ve been quite critical of O’Rourke because I don’t really think the 2020 race needs him. We already have a pretty good bench of Democrats, and they mostly have thought far more about policy and politics than O’Rourke has,” Sean McElwee, a co-founder of Data for Progress, whose views represent those of many on the outspoken left, told me: I think he’s vulnerable because of his gaffes and vague policies, but I think he’s most weak due to his pretty pro-development tenure on the El Paso City Council. McElwee contended that O’Rourke is no more electable than Kamala Harris or Elizabeth Warren and would be far less prepared to staff and run a White House. He’s never shown a commitment to progressive policies in the past, why should we trust him now? We don’t need a superstar, we need someone ready to push all-out to implement the progressive agenda. Gina Glantz, a co-founder of GenderAvenger, an organization determined to ensure “women are represented in the public dialogue,” replied to my inquiry about O’Rourke: I must admit after a few days of watching and reading about his opening gatherings I am less rather than more intrigued. To me, he exudes a sense of entitlement, which I find off-putting. How about O’Rourke and the white working class? Paul A. Sracic, a political scientist as Youngstown State University, emailed me: O’Rourke’s vague, “We all need to come together” message will not resonate with people who see life as a battle. Working class voters believe in pugilistic politics. And I suspect that O’Rourke’s punk rock background will seem odd to working class voters. These voters want to feel as if their candidates are “one of them.” Negative coverage in the press has been abundant: “The Unbearable Male Privilege of Beto O’Rourke" (The Daily Beast). He voted for Republican legislation (The Wall Street Journal). He put his adolescent fantasies into print (The Resurgent). He’s a wealthy dilettante (The National Review), an empty shell (The New Republic), a teenage hacker (USA Today), a master class in male entitlement (The Guardian). At the same time, O’Rourke has captured the imagination of millions of voters and donors. Frank Wilkinson, a former colleague of mine, wrote at Bloomberg: O’Rourke is not the only candidate modeling decency as an antidote to Trumpism. But he’s the one who has best harnessed the anxiety and rage generated by Trumpism’s assaults on democratic values and transformed them into willful, defiant optimism. Don Fowler, former chair of the Democratic National Committee, captures this feeling: “He clearly possesses a charismatic charge, a spark that few others have.” Still, Fowler goes on to enumerate O’Rourke’s liabilities: His impressive campaign for the Senate in Texas was a combination of luck and a damaged opponent. His ability to conduct an effective national campaign is totally unknown. His recent tour of the country was essentially by himself — a very poor way to test a candidate’s national potential in a crowded, competitive field. As to issues, the same unknown quality of his organizational potential characterizes his policy and ideological stances. Both major prongs of a national campaign are truly unknown and must be tested in the public crucible. Only time will tell on both policy and operational scores — wait and see. A Texas Democratic operative lavished praise on Beto, on background, in order to speak freely: O’Rourke has an intangible energy that goes beyond the litmus test. On a national scale that could be monumental. It’s emotional. It’s not tangible. Beto tapped into something with nontraditional voters. People who never publicly supported a campaign were putting Beto signs in their yard. LeBron James wore his logo on a hat. “I first saw the momentum in late spring 2018,” reports the Republican strategist Scott Reed: I live in Dallas and saw the yard signs popping up, all in front of large homes and mansions that would traditionally have been straight G.O.P. It almost became a badge of courage for many of the limousine liberals in Dallas. Reed, who ran Bob Dole’s 1996 presidential campaign, went on: His Willie Nelson event in Austin drew 50k folks and was also a strong signal to young voters — even though very few voted. His performances in the debates was exceptional and added to his momentum. Cruz was the #1 G.O.P. fund-raiser and he got swamped every quarter. I see a little Bobby Kennedy in him. Richard Murray, a political scientist at the University of Houston, was also impressed. He emailed: His appeal in Texas is a combination of an attractive persona with animated mannerisms that come across as cool and authentic to many (especially those under 35); boundless energy plus exceptional verbal skills that enable him to weave stories from folks he’s encountered on the campaign trail into compelling narratives (a rare skill) — displayed in an environment where voters in our very diverse and fast growing metropolitan areas have soured on the far right turn of Texas GOP leaders like Ted Cruz and Dan Patrick. How about a national campaign? Will this combination work in a national primary featuring the most diverse set of competitors in the nation’s history? I do not know, nor does anyone else. But the retail politics states of Iowa and New Hampshire are great places to test his road show outside the Lone Star State. Murray’s son, Keir Murray, a Democratic political consultant in Texas, added more praise: My own sense is his appeal was based, in part, on being a natural foil to Cruz (who is pretty much loathed by all but true conservatives in Texas) and by extension to Trump. O’Rourke is self-effacing, low-key guy, who comes across as fundamentally decent. I don’t think most Democrats, liberals or everyday Texans knew much about his policy positions, or cared much. They liked him. People sensed he was being himself — not perfect, not having all the answers — but honest and good-hearted. Robert Stein, a political scientist at Rice, is upbeat on O’Rourke’s prospects. He wrote me: Shortly after the November election progressives hit him hard for not backing their issue positions on guns and energy. My sense is that he is looking to avoid being defined on a left/right dimension/continuum. It seems like he is trying to define his candidacy as humane, pragmatic and capable of beating Trump. Stein argues that he is sufficiently retail for places like Iowa and New Hampshire and if he can survive the rush before Super Tuesday, he should come out of the March primaries in the upper echelon of remaining candidates. Although O’Rourke lost the Texas Senate race to Cruz by just under 3 percent, exit polls show that he won among women, 54-46; among voters under 45, 59-40; minorities, 69-31; college graduates, 51-48; moderates, 65-34; and voters who say they are not white born-again or evangelical Christians, 61-38. While suffering from some hostile media impressions, O’Rourke has gotten his share, if not more so, of favorable press: He’s authentic, full of energy, and stripped of consultant-driven sterility (Vanity Fair). Will Beto O’Rourke Become President? (Texas Monthly). Beto O’Rourke Rivals Trump on Social Media (Newsweek). Beto O’Rourke could lead a blue wave in Texas (Vox). Beto O’Rourke blows up the 2020 Democratic primary (Politico). At the same time, some of the strongest opposition to O’Rourke — reflecting schisms within the Democratic Party — has come from women’s rights advocates, many of whom took offense at a comment he made to Vanity Fair: “Man, I’m just born to be in it.” Natasha Korecki, a Politico reporter, captured the feminist opposition to O’Rourke in her March 15 story, “‘Not one woman got that kind of coverage’: Beto backlash begins.” Korecki wrote: The breathless, sweeps-like cable television coverage that greeted the former Texas congressman’s first campaign events stunned and frustrated many Democratic operatives — particularly women — who viewed it as an example of the double standard at work in the historically diverse presidential field. To them, O’Rourke, a white, male candidate had already been anointed the next sensation, his entry into the race greased by live television shots and O’Rourke-centric panels. Celinda Lake, a Democratic pollster, told Politico, “I think if you look at the pattern, there is a real distinction between the way men were covered and the way the women were covered. There’s a huge double standard,” before adding: With women, many, many more negatives were raised and the men were treated like the Second Coming. I’m surprised that this is continuing in 2019, after the year of the woman. In response to the animosity, O’Rourke indicated that he would pick a woman as his vice-presidential running mate. On March 15, he told reporters: “It would be very difficult not to select a woman with so many extraordinary women who are running right now.” O’Rourke appears to be acutely sensitive to this issue. He told Vanity Fair, before he announced his bid, that “the government at all levels is overly represented by white men,” and he didn’t leave it there: That’s part of the problem, and I’m a white man. So if I were to run, I think it’s just so important that those who would comprise my team looked like this country. If I were to run, if I were to win, that my administration looks like this country. It’s the only way I know to meet that challenge. It’s not altogether clear, however, that women currently seeking the top job would be thrilled by O’Rourke’s offer of the number two spot. Washington political professionals are also going to be a hard sell. John Lawrence, former chief of staff for House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, questions whether O’Rourke is up to the challenge. Lawrence says he finds it difficult to see a white male emerging from the multicandidate pack. True, all the women/minorities could divide up the other voters, but with proportionate allocation of delegates, it’s hard to see a white male moderate emerging with a majority. “Freshness only goes so far,” Lawrence pointed out: After a year of being beat up by competitors, the press, Trump, grass roots, etc., he might not look or sound so “fresh.” He strikes me as somewhat superficial, very much a personality; I am not convinced the act sells on a national basis. Isaac Hale, a political scientist at the University of California, notes that Beto doesn’t have the luxury of running in the Democratic presidential primary as “not Ted Cruz.” which is certainly a large part of what endeared him to Democratic voters around the country in 2018. O’Rourke, Hale observes, “is something of a blank slate that voters and party elites can project their own policy preferences onto,” a characteristic that can work to his advantage or disadvantage. Lynn Vavreck, a political scientist at U.C.L.A., looked at the same issue from a different angle: The ways these races get framed depends a lot on who the candidates are and what their constraints are — if O’Rourke finds himself in a race against another young white male who is inspiring, these things won’t be a strength of his; but if he finds himself running against an older person who isn’t inspiring, they could be. Vavreck added: Your constraints are only constraints if your opponent doesn’t share them; and your strengths are only strengths if your opponent doesn’t share them. When there are 16 people vying for the nomination you have to winnow the field to be able to talk sensibly about who has advantages beyond just fund-raising and organization. Are there no other candidates who have “capacity to inspire,” “policy centrism”? In the current contest, Vavreck declared, “There are. This makes me think that these may not be unique strengths of this candidate!” Suzanne Model, a sociologist at the University of Massachusetts-Amherst who has written extensively on race and immigration, argues that O’Rourke faces an uphill battle for the nomination: O’Rourke will do well in the primaries but it is unlikely that he will win. Young, handsome and self-effacing, his charismatic manner will appeal to “non-policy wonks.” This includes traditionally-oriented women, young adults, and political moderates. In addition, his recent pro-immigrant stance, Hispanic sounding name and Texas roots should garner him support among Latinos. But, Model continued, O’Rourke’s problem is that he has little appeal to left-leaning voters or African-Americans. They watched the G.O.P. destroy a Democratic president who expressed a willingness to work with Republicans; hence, they seek a candidate who is more experienced, sophisticated and aggressive. In order to beat Trump, Model contends, The Democratic standard-bearer must carry a significant proportion of two constituencies: African Americans and working class white males. Under an O’Rourke candidacy, too many African Americans will stay home and too many working class white males will vote for Trump. Perhaps no Democratic candidate is capable of succeeding simultaneously with these two heterogeneous groups, but that is the most plausible route to a Trump defeat. Which brings us back to the existential question I raised at the beginning of this column: Can Beto O’Rourke beat Donald Trump? O’Rourke’s fund-raising success will keep him in the contest longer than less fortunate competitors, and the volume of media coverage he elicits is boosting his name recognition, a crucial first step. G. Elliott Morris, a political data reporter for the Economist, noted on Twitter that O’Rourke has received more cable news coverage in the five days since his announcement than any other candidate during the full post-announcement week. O’Rourke is on a path to get 180 percent of the coverage received by Bernie Sanders, the previous leader on this measure. While head-to-head polls are still in a larval stage, they do signal the demographic sources of support for the candidates. The most recent CNN poll, released on Tuesday, shows, for example, that the leader, Joe Biden, at 28 percent overall, gets more support from moderates than from liberals, more from older voters than young voters, more from men than women and more from whites than from minorities. Bernie Sanders, at 20 percent, is just the opposite, stronger among liberals, young voters, minorities and women. O’Rourke, at 11 percent, has a long way to go to catch up with either Biden or Sanders. But the CNN poll shows that O’Rourke’s supporters tend to be slightly more liberal than moderate, young rather than old, female rather than male, and O’Rourke gets more support from African-Americans and Hispanics than from whites.  In other words, O’Rourke’s backing is tilted to constituencies that are not normally associated with a moderate white Democratic politician whose voting record, by party standards, is on the center-right. If these demographic patterns hold, O’Rourke is competing more directly with Sanders (and Kamala Harris and Elizabeth Warren) than with Biden. The Sanders-O’Rourke battle has already begun. Bernie Sanders loyalists have been challenging O’Rourke’s credentials for the past three months as both men seek support from younger voters. “Forces loyal to Vermont Senator Bernie Sanders are waging an increasingly public war against Texas Rep. Beto O’Rourke, the new darling of Democratic activists,” Jonathan Allen and Alex Seitz-Wald of NBC News wrote in December. “O’Rourke’s ability to connect with younger and progressive white voters,” they continued, “puts him in direct competition with the Vermont senator.” On Tuesday, Sanders announced that he has hired David Sirota, one of O’Rourke’s harshest critics, as a senior adviser and speechwriter. On Dec. 22, Sirota published a 1,700 word denunciation of O’Rourke in The Guardian that concluded, Another blank-slate Democrat who pretends there is a unifying third way between the 99 percent and the 1 percent and who refuses to take sides in big fights against corporate power — that may excite Betomaniacs, establishment Democrats and those with stakes in the status quo, but it won’t rescue our country and it won’t save the planet. For a candidate with only a modest record in national politics, O’Rourke faces a daunting but not necessarily insuperable challenge in securing the nomination. His candidacy will be a test of his charisma and “spark,” as Don Fowler put it — of the “decency” and “integrity” that a fair number of voters and observers have commented on — against the more substantial and detailed progressivism of his adversaries, the moderation of still others — and all the things we don’t know about him yet. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Thomas B. Edsall has been a contributor to The Times Opinion section since 2011. His column on strategic and demographic trends in American politics appears every Wednesday. He previously covered politics for The Washington Post.   @edsall 

Supported by The advent of Beto O’Rourke’s presidential candidacy has Democrats arguing ferociously among themselves. By Thomas B. Edsall Mr. Edsall contributes a weekly column from Washington, D.C. on politics, demographics and inequality. Within days of his announcement that he was running for the Democratic presidential nomination, Beto O’Rourke shot up in the rankings in terms of money, media coverage and Google searches.  Then the knives came out — progressives, women, African-Americans and party loyalists all took a stab at him. The response to Beto is polarizing the Democratic activist community. The overriding question for Democrats is electability: who can beat Trump is a matter of pressing concern and profound anxiety for at least half the nation. The wrong choice would be disastrous. Let’s start with O’Rourke’s negatives and we’ll get to the positives later. “I’ve been quite critical of O’Rourke because I don’t really think the 2020 race needs him. We already have a pretty good bench of Democrats, and they mostly have thought far more about policy and politics than O’Rourke has,” Sean McElwee, a co-founder of Data for Progress, whose views represent those of many on the outspoken left, told me: I think he’s vulnerable because of his gaffes and vague policies, but I think he’s most weak due to his pretty pro-development tenure on the El Paso City Council. McElwee contended that O’Rourke is no more electable than Kamala Harris or Elizabeth Warren and would be far less prepared to staff and run a White House. He’s never shown a commitment to progressive policies in the past, why should we trust him now? We don’t need a superstar, we need someone ready to push all-out to implement the progressive agenda. Gina Glantz, a co-founder of GenderAvenger, an organization determined to ensure “women are represented in the public dialogue,” replied to my inquiry about O’Rourke: I must admit after a few days of watching and reading about his opening gatherings I am less rather than more intrigued. To me, he exudes a sense of entitlement, which I find off-putting. How about O’Rourke and the white working class? Paul A. Sracic, a political scientist as Youngstown State University, emailed me: O’Rourke’s vague, “We all need to come together” message will not resonate with people who see life as a battle. Working class voters believe in pugilistic politics. And I suspect that O’Rourke’s punk rock background will seem odd to working class voters. These voters want to feel as if their candidates are “one of them.” Negative coverage in the press has been abundant: “The Unbearable Male Privilege of Beto O’Rourke" (The Daily Beast). He voted for Republican legislation (The Wall Street Journal). He put his adolescent fantasies into print (The Resurgent). He’s a wealthy dilettante (The National Review), an empty shell (The New Republic), a teenage hacker (USA Today), a master class in male entitlement (The Guardian). At the same time, O’Rourke has captured the imagination of millions of voters and donors. Frank Wilkinson, a former colleague of mine, wrote at Bloomberg: O’Rourke is not the only candidate modeling decency as an antidote to Trumpism. But he’s the one who has best harnessed the anxiety and rage generated by Trumpism’s assaults on democratic values and transformed them into willful, defiant optimism. Don Fowler, former chair of the Democratic National Committee, captures this feeling: “He clearly possesses a charismatic charge, a spark that few others have.” Still, Fowler goes on to enumerate O’Rourke’s liabilities: His impressive campaign for the Senate in Texas was a combination of luck and a damaged opponent. His ability to conduct an effective national campaign is totally unknown. His recent tour of the country was essentially by himself — a very poor way to test a candidate’s national potential in a crowded, competitive field. As to issues, the same unknown quality of his organizational potential characterizes his policy and ideological stances. Both major prongs of a national campaign are truly unknown and must be tested in the public crucible. Only time will tell on both policy and operational scores — wait and see. A Texas Democratic operative lavished praise on Beto, on background, in order to speak freely: O’Rourke has an intangible energy that goes beyond the litmus test. On a national scale that could be monumental. It’s emotional. It’s not tangible. Beto tapped into something with nontraditional voters. People who never publicly supported a campaign were putting Beto signs in their yard. LeBron James wore his logo on a hat. “I first saw the momentum in late spring 2018,” reports the Republican strategist Scott Reed: I live in Dallas and saw the yard signs popping up, all in front of large homes and mansions that would traditionally have been straight G.O.P. It almost became a badge of courage for many of the limousine liberals in Dallas. Reed, who ran Bob Dole’s 1996 presidential campaign, went on: His Willie Nelson event in Austin drew 50k folks and was also a strong signal to young voters — even though very few voted. His performances in the debates was exceptional and added to his momentum. Cruz was the #1 G.O.P. fund-raiser and he got swamped every quarter. I see a little Bobby Kennedy in him. Richard Murray, a political scientist at the University of Houston, was also impressed. He emailed: His appeal in Texas is a combination of an attractive persona with animated mannerisms that come across as cool and authentic to many (especially those under 35); boundless energy plus exceptional verbal skills that enable him to weave stories from folks he’s encountered on the campaign trail into compelling narratives (a rare skill) — displayed in an environment where voters in our very diverse and fast growing metropolitan areas have soured on the far right turn of Texas GOP leaders like Ted Cruz and Dan Patrick. How about a national campaign? Will this combination work in a national primary featuring the most diverse set of competitors in the nation’s history? I do not know, nor does anyone else. But the retail politics states of Iowa and New Hampshire are great places to test his road show outside the Lone Star State. Murray’s son, Keir Murray, a Democratic political consultant in Texas, added more praise: My own sense is his appeal was based, in part, on being a natural foil to Cruz (who is pretty much loathed by all but true conservatives in Texas) and by extension to Trump. O’Rourke is self-effacing, low-key guy, who comes across as fundamentally decent. I don’t think most Democrats, liberals or everyday Texans knew much about his policy positions, or cared much. They liked him. People sensed he was being himself — not perfect, not having all the answers — but honest and good-hearted. Robert Stein, a political scientist at Rice, is upbeat on O’Rourke’s prospects. He wrote me: Shortly after the November election progressives hit him hard for not backing their issue positions on guns and energy. My sense is that he is looking to avoid being defined on a left/right dimension/continuum. It seems like he is trying to define his candidacy as humane, pragmatic and capable of beating Trump. Stein argues that he is sufficiently retail for places like Iowa and New Hampshire and if he can survive the rush before Super Tuesday, he should come out of the March primaries in the upper echelon of remaining candidates. Although O’Rourke lost the Texas Senate race to Cruz by just under 3 percent, exit polls show that he won among women, 54-46; among voters under 45, 59-40; minorities, 69-31; college graduates, 51-48; moderates, 65-34; and voters who say they are not white born-again or evangelical Christians, 61-38. While suffering from some hostile media impressions, O’Rourke has gotten his share, if not more so, of favorable press: He’s authentic, full of energy, and stripped of consultant-driven sterility (Vanity Fair). Will Beto O’Rourke Become President? (Texas Monthly). Beto O’Rourke Rivals Trump on Social Media (Newsweek). Beto O’Rourke could lead a blue wave in Texas (Vox). Beto O’Rourke blows up the 2020 Democratic primary (Politico). At the same time, some of the strongest opposition to O’Rourke — reflecting schisms within the Democratic Party — has come from women’s rights advocates, many of whom took offense at a comment he made to Vanity Fair: “Man, I’m just born to be in it.” Natasha Korecki, a Politico reporter, captured the feminist opposition to O’Rourke in her March 15 story, “‘Not one woman got that kind of coverage’: Beto backlash begins.” Korecki wrote: The breathless, sweeps-like cable television coverage that greeted the former Texas congressman’s first campaign events stunned and frustrated many Democratic operatives — particularly women — who viewed it as an example of the double standard at work in the historically diverse presidential field. To them, O’Rourke, a white, male candidate had already been anointed the next sensation, his entry into the race greased by live television shots and O’Rourke-centric panels. Celinda Lake, a Democratic pollster, told Politico, “I think if you look at the pattern, there is a real distinction between the way men were covered and the way the women were covered. There’s a huge double standard,” before adding: With women, many, many more negatives were raised and the men were treated like the Second Coming. I’m surprised that this is continuing in 2019, after the year of the woman. In response to the animosity, O’Rourke indicated that he would pick a woman as his vice-presidential running mate. On March 15, he told reporters: “It would be very difficult not to select a woman with so many extraordinary women who are running right now.” O’Rourke appears to be acutely sensitive to this issue. He told Vanity Fair, before he announced his bid, that “the government at all levels is overly represented by white men,” and he didn’t leave it there: That’s part of the problem, and I’m a white man. So if I were to run, I think it’s just so important that those who would comprise my team looked like this country. If I were to run, if I were to win, that my administration looks like this country. It’s the only way I know to meet that challenge. It’s not altogether clear, however, that women currently seeking the top job would be thrilled by O’Rourke’s offer of the number two spot. Washington political professionals are also going to be a hard sell. John Lawrence, former chief of staff for House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, questions whether O’Rourke is up to the challenge. Lawrence says he finds it difficult to see a white male emerging from the multicandidate pack. True, all the women/minorities could divide up the other voters, but with proportionate allocation of delegates, it’s hard to see a white male moderate emerging with a majority. “Freshness only goes so far,” Lawrence pointed out: After a year of being beat up by competitors, the press, Trump, grass roots, etc., he might not look or sound so “fresh.” He strikes me as somewhat superficial, very much a personality; I am not convinced the act sells on a national basis. Isaac Hale, a political scientist at the University of California, notes that Beto doesn’t have the luxury of running in the Democratic presidential primary as “not Ted Cruz.” which is certainly a large part of what endeared him to Democratic voters around the country in 2018. O’Rourke, Hale observes, “is something of a blank slate that voters and party elites can project their own policy preferences onto,” a characteristic that can work to his advantage or disadvantage. Lynn Vavreck, a political scientist at U.C.L.A., looked at the same issue from a different angle: The ways these races get framed depends a lot on who the candidates are and what their constraints are — if O’Rourke finds himself in a race against another young white male who is inspiring, these things won’t be a strength of his; but if he finds himself running against an older person who isn’t inspiring, they could be. Vavreck added: Your constraints are only constraints if your opponent doesn’t share them; and your strengths are only strengths if your opponent doesn’t share them. When there are 16 people vying for the nomination you have to winnow the field to be able to talk sensibly about who has advantages beyond just fund-raising and organization. Are there no other candidates who have “capacity to inspire,” “policy centrism”? In the current contest, Vavreck declared, “There are. This makes me think that these may not be unique strengths of this candidate!” Suzanne Model, a sociologist at the University of Massachusetts-Amherst who has written extensively on race and immigration, argues that O’Rourke faces an uphill battle for the nomination: O’Rourke will do well in the primaries but it is unlikely that he will win. Young, handsome and self-effacing, his charismatic manner will appeal to “non-policy wonks.” This includes traditionally-oriented women, young adults, and political moderates. In addition, his recent pro-immigrant stance, Hispanic sounding name and Texas roots should garner him support among Latinos. But, Model continued, O’Rourke’s problem is that he has little appeal to left-leaning voters or African-Americans. They watched the G.O.P. destroy a Democratic president who expressed a willingness to work with Republicans; hence, they seek a candidate who is more experienced, sophisticated and aggressive. In order to beat Trump, Model contends, The Democratic standard-bearer must carry a significant proportion of two constituencies: African Americans and working class white males. Under an O’Rourke candidacy, too many African Americans will stay home and too many working class white males will vote for Trump. Perhaps no Democratic candidate is capable of succeeding simultaneously with these two heterogeneous groups, but that is the most plausible route to a Trump defeat. Which brings us back to the existential question I raised at the beginning of this column: Can Beto O’Rourke beat Donald Trump? O’Rourke’s fund-raising success will keep him in the contest longer than less fortunate competitors, and the volume of media coverage he elicits is boosting his name recognition, a crucial first step. G. Elliott Morris, a political data reporter for the Economist, noted on Twitter that O’Rourke has received more cable news coverage in the five days since his announcement than any other candidate during the full post-announcement week. O’Rourke is on a path to get 180 percent of the coverage received by Bernie Sanders, the previous leader on this measure. While head-to-head polls are still in a larval stage, they do signal the demographic sources of support for the candidates. The most recent CNN poll, released on Tuesday, shows, for example, that the leader, Joe Biden, at 28 percent overall, gets more support from moderates than from liberals, more from older voters than young voters, more from men than women and more from whites than from minorities. Bernie Sanders, at 20 percent, is just the opposite, stronger among liberals, young voters, minorities and women. O’Rourke, at 11 percent, has a long way to go to catch up with either Biden or Sanders. But the CNN poll shows that O’Rourke’s supporters tend to be slightly more liberal than moderate, young rather than old, female rather than male, and O’Rourke gets more support from African-Americans and Hispanics than from whites.  In other words, O’Rourke’s backing is tilted to constituencies that are not normally associated with a moderate white Democratic politician whose voting record, by party standards, is on the center-right. If these demographic patterns hold, O’Rourke is competing more directly with Sanders (and Kamala Harris and Elizabeth Warren) than with Biden. The Sanders-O’Rourke battle has already begun. Bernie Sanders loyalists have been challenging O’Rourke’s credentials for the past three months as both men seek support from younger voters. “Forces loyal to Vermont Senator Bernie Sanders are waging an increasingly public war against Texas Rep. Beto O’Rourke, the new darling of Democratic activists,” Jonathan Allen and Alex Seitz-Wald of NBC News wrote in December. “O’Rourke’s ability to connect with younger and progressive white voters,” they continued, “puts him in direct competition with the Vermont senator.” On Tuesday, Sanders announced that he has hired David Sirota, one of O’Rourke’s harshest critics, as a senior adviser and speechwriter. On Dec. 22, Sirota published a 1,700 word denunciation of O’Rourke in The Guardian that concluded, Another blank-slate Democrat who pretends there is a unifying third way between the 99 percent and the 1 percent and who refuses to take sides in big fights against corporate power — that may excite Betomaniacs, establishment Democrats and those with stakes in the status quo, but it won’t rescue our country and it won’t save the planet. For a candidate with only a modest record in national politics, O’Rourke faces a daunting but not necessarily insuperable challenge in securing the nomination. His candidacy will be a test of his charisma and “spark,” as Don Fowler put it — of the “decency” and “integrity” that a fair number of voters and observers have commented on — against the more substantial and detailed progressivism of his adversaries, the moderation of still others — and all the things we don’t know about him yet. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Thomas B. Edsall has been a contributor to The Times Opinion section since 2011. His column on strategic and demographic trends in American politics appears every Wednesday. He previously covered politics for The Washington Post.   @edsall Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — Greg Craig, who served as former President Barack Obama's top White House lawyer, was charged on Thursday with lying about work he performed in 2012 for Ukraine in a case that grew out of Special Counsel Robert Mueller's Russia investigation. Craig, 74, faces up to 10 years in prison for charges of making false statements and violating a lobbying law, the Foreign Agents Registration Act (FARA).  He is accused of lying to the Justice Department about his work after he left the White House on a legal review that largely vindicated the prosecution of a political enemy of Viktor Yanukovych, the Russian-aligned president of Ukraine at the time. Craig said in a statement he headed a team of lawyers that worked on an independent report for Ukraine's justice ministry. After researching FARA requirements, they found they did not need to register as foreign agents under the law. "This prosecution is unprecedented and unjustified. I am confident that both the judge and the jury will agree with me," Craig said. Craig's lawyers indicated he would plead not guilty. He is scheduled to appear in the U.S. District Court in Washington on Friday. Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, the New York law firm that produced the report, agreed in January to turn over the $4.6 million it was paid and retroactively register as a foreign agent, as part of a settlement with the Justice Department. Skadden produced the 187-page report at the behest of Paul Manafort, the former chairman of Donald Trump's presidential campaign who is currently serving a 7 1/2-year prison sentence for lobbying violations and financial crimes. Manafort was apparently happy with Craig's work.  "You are 'THE MAN,'" he wrote Craig in an email after the report received favorable media coverage, according to the indictment. The report was meant to be an objective review of the Ukrainian government's prosecution of Yulia Tymoshenko, the country's former prime minister who was convicted in 2011 on corruption charges and sentenced to seven years in prison. It criticized Tymoshenko's behavior during the trial and concluded that her due-process rights had not been violated, but also said that she had been improperly imprisoned during the trial. The report was used by Yanukovych's government to justify Tymoshenko's pretrial detention to the European Court of Human Rights and influence U.S. lawmakers.  Yanukovych was one of Manafort's main lobbying clients. FUNDED BY UKRAINIAN BILLIONAIRE According to the indictment, Craig covered up aspects of his work in order to avoid registering as a foreign agent under FARA, a rarely enforced law that was enacted in 1938 to counter Nazi propaganda. Had Craig complied with the law, he would have been forced to reveal that funding for the report largely came from Viktor Pinchuk, a Ukrainian billionaire. Pinchuk paid the firm $4 million for its work, according to Skadden filings made as part of its settlement. The Ukrainian government only paid Skadden $12,000 - an amount so low that it aroused suspicion in Ukrainian media. Craig also failed to disclose that Skadden was simultaneously helping out with Tymoshenko's prosecution on other charges, prosecutors say.  "That would do enormous damage to the credibility" of the report, Craig wrote in an email to other Skadden attorneys, according to the indictment. Craig privately had reservations about Tymoshenko's treatment but left them out of the report, the indictment said. "Evidence of criminal intent - i.e., that she intended to commit a crime - is virtually non-existent," he wrote in a memorandum that was not included in the report, according to the charges. During his tenure as Obama's White House counsel from January 2009 to January 2010, Craig led the administration's unsuccessful effort to shut down the U.S. military prison in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. He also represented former President Bill Clinton during his 1998 Senate impeachment trial.  Another Skadden lawyer, Alex van der Zwaan, pleaded guilty last year to lying to investigators about the report.  Craig's case stems from Mueller's 22-month investigation into whether Trump's presidential campaign worked with Russia to influence the 2016 election. That probe led to charges against 34 people, including Russian agents and former key Trump allies, but Attorney General William Barr said last month that Mueller did not find enough evidence to charge Trump or others with criminal conspiracy. Barr also said he decided there was not enough evidence to charge Trump with obstruction of justice. He is expected to release a redacted version of Mueller's final report to Congress next week.  (Additional reporting by Sarah N. Lynch, Tim Ahmann, Nathan Layne and Mark Hosenball; editing by Lisa Shumaker, Bill Berkrot and Chris Reese)

Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — Greg Craig, who served as former President Barack Obama's top White House lawyer, was charged on Thursday with lying about work he performed in 2012 for Ukraine in a case that grew out of Special Counsel Robert Mueller's Russia investigation. Craig, 74, faces up to 10 years in prison for charges of making false statements and violating a lobbying law, the Foreign Agents Registration Act (FARA).  He is accused of lying to the Justice Department about his work after he left the White House on a legal review that largely vindicated the prosecution of a political enemy of Viktor Yanukovych, the Russian-aligned president of Ukraine at the time. Craig said in a statement he headed a team of lawyers that worked on an independent report for Ukraine's justice ministry. After researching FARA requirements, they found they did not need to register as foreign agents under the law. "This prosecution is unprecedented and unjustified. I am confident that both the judge and the jury will agree with me," Craig said. Craig's lawyers indicated he would plead not guilty. He is scheduled to appear in the U.S. District Court in Washington on Friday. Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, the New York law firm that produced the report, agreed in January to turn over the $4.6 million it was paid and retroactively register as a foreign agent, as part of a settlement with the Justice Department. Skadden produced the 187-page report at the behest of Paul Manafort, the former chairman of Donald Trump's presidential campaign who is currently serving a 7 1/2-year prison sentence for lobbying violations and financial crimes. Manafort was apparently happy with Craig's work.  "You are 'THE MAN,'" he wrote Craig in an email after the report received favorable media coverage, according to the indictment. The report was meant to be an objective review of the Ukrainian government's prosecution of Yulia Tymoshenko, the country's former prime minister who was convicted in 2011 on corruption charges and sentenced to seven years in prison. It criticized Tymoshenko's behavior during the trial and concluded that her due-process rights had not been violated, but also said that she had been improperly imprisoned during the trial. The report was used by Yanukovych's government to justify Tymoshenko's pretrial detention to the European Court of Human Rights and influence U.S. lawmakers.  Yanukovych was one of Manafort's main lobbying clients. FUNDED BY UKRAINIAN BILLIONAIRE According to the indictment, Craig covered up aspects of his work in order to avoid registering as a foreign agent under FARA, a rarely enforced law that was enacted in 1938 to counter Nazi propaganda. Had Craig complied with the law, he would have been forced to reveal that funding for the report largely came from Viktor Pinchuk, a Ukrainian billionaire. Pinchuk paid the firm $4 million for its work, according to Skadden filings made as part of its settlement. The Ukrainian government only paid Skadden $12,000 - an amount so low that it aroused suspicion in Ukrainian media. Craig also failed to disclose that Skadden was simultaneously helping out with Tymoshenko's prosecution on other charges, prosecutors say.  "That would do enormous damage to the credibility" of the report, Craig wrote in an email to other Skadden attorneys, according to the indictment. Craig privately had reservations about Tymoshenko's treatment but left them out of the report, the indictment said. "Evidence of criminal intent - i.e., that she intended to commit a crime - is virtually non-existent," he wrote in a memorandum that was not included in the report, according to the charges. During his tenure as Obama's White House counsel from January 2009 to January 2010, Craig led the administration's unsuccessful effort to shut down the U.S. military prison in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. He also represented former President Bill Clinton during his 1998 Senate impeachment trial.  Another Skadden lawyer, Alex van der Zwaan, pleaded guilty last year to lying to investigators about the report.  Craig's case stems from Mueller's 22-month investigation into whether Trump's presidential campaign worked with Russia to influence the 2016 election. That probe led to charges against 34 people, including Russian agents and former key Trump allies, but Attorney General William Barr said last month that Mueller did not find enough evidence to charge Trump or others with criminal conspiracy. Barr also said he decided there was not enough evidence to charge Trump with obstruction of justice. He is expected to release a redacted version of Mueller's final report to Congress next week.  (Additional reporting by Sarah N. Lynch, Tim Ahmann, Nathan Layne and Mark Hosenball; editing by Lisa Shumaker, Bill Berkrot and Chris Reese)Supported by Sara Sean Rhodin and Tyler Andrew Lechtenberg were married March 16 in a self-uniting Quaker service at the Arch Street Quaker Meeting House in Philadelphia. Sarada Peri, a friend of the couple, led the ceremony. Ms. Rhodin, 35, is a history teacher at Madeira School, an all-girls private school in McLean, Va. She graduated summa cum laude from George Washington University and received a master’s degree from Harvard in regional studies encompassing Russia, East Europe and Central Asia. She was a Fulbright scholar in Estonia from 2006-7. The bride is a daughter of Cynthia C. Rhodin and William K. Rhodin of Newtown, Pa. Her father is a senior consultant in King of Prussia, Pa., at Walker Consultants, a parking design and consulting firm that consults to the parking garage industry. Her mother is a retail saleswoman at Newtown Book and Record Exchange, an independent book and record store. Mr. Lechtenberg, 37, is the managing principal of Fenway Strategies, a speech-writing and communications firm in Washington. He previously worked on Barack Obama’s presidential campaign, starting as a field organizer for the 2008 Iowa caucuses and rising to senior presidential speechwriter during his two terms in the White House. The groom graduated from the University of Iowa. The groom is a son of Deborah D. Lechtenberg and James J. Lechtenberg of Dundee, Iowa. His father is a corn and soybean farmer in Dundee. His mother is the retired postmaster of Lamont, Iowa. The couple met in April 2017 at a restaurant in Washington.

Supported by Sara Sean Rhodin and Tyler Andrew Lechtenberg were married March 16 in a self-uniting Quaker service at the Arch Street Quaker Meeting House in Philadelphia. Sarada Peri, a friend of the couple, led the ceremony. Ms. Rhodin, 35, is a history teacher at Madeira School, an all-girls private school in McLean, Va. She graduated summa cum laude from George Washington University and received a master’s degree from Harvard in regional studies encompassing Russia, East Europe and Central Asia. She was a Fulbright scholar in Estonia from 2006-7. The bride is a daughter of Cynthia C. Rhodin and William K. Rhodin of Newtown, Pa. Her father is a senior consultant in King of Prussia, Pa., at Walker Consultants, a parking design and consulting firm that consults to the parking garage industry. Her mother is a retail saleswoman at Newtown Book and Record Exchange, an independent book and record store. Mr. Lechtenberg, 37, is the managing principal of Fenway Strategies, a speech-writing and communications firm in Washington. He previously worked on Barack Obama’s presidential campaign, starting as a field organizer for the 2008 Iowa caucuses and rising to senior presidential speechwriter during his two terms in the White House. The groom graduated from the University of Iowa. The groom is a son of Deborah D. Lechtenberg and James J. Lechtenberg of Dundee, Iowa. His father is a corn and soybean farmer in Dundee. His mother is the retired postmaster of Lamont, Iowa. The couple met in April 2017 at a restaurant in Washington.Supported by By Julia Jacobs President Trump said Thursday that he would nominate Jovita Carranza, the United States treasurer, to lead the Small Business Administration, replacing the former pro wrestling executive Linda E. McMahon. Ms. McMahon, the former chief executive of World Wrestling Entertainment, stepped down as the agency’s administrator last week. People familiar with Ms. McMahon’s thinking said she was expected to take a position at the America First PAC, a political action committee supporting Mr. Trump’s re-election, where she is expected to help raise money. Mr. Trump announced the nomination of her successor in a tweet. I am pleased to announce that Jovita Carranza will be nominated as the new @SBAgov Administrator. She will be replacing Linda McMahon, who has done an outstanding job. Jovita was a great Treasurer of the United States – and I look forward to her joining my Cabinet! At the Department of the Treasury, Ms. Carranza is currently an adviser to Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, oversees the Office of Consumer Policy and works with the Federal Reserve. She served as deputy administrator for the Small Business Administration under President George W. Bush. Ms. Carranza also spent more than 20 years at United Parcel Service, where she rose from a box handler during the night shift to president of Latin American and Caribbean operations, according to her Treasury Department biography. If confirmed by the Senate, Ms. Carranza will be one of five women in Mr. Trump’s cabinet. During the 2016 election, she served as a member of the National Hispanic Advisory Council for Trump. In announcing Ms. McMahon’s departure, Mr. Trump called her a “superstar” and “one of our all-time favorites.” Ms. McMahon was one of Mr. Trump’s most prolific donors during the 2016 presidential campaign and assumed the position of administrator early in his term. She ended up earning the respect of some Democrats, who praised her for expanding loans to women and for working to make the agency more efficient. Ms. McMahon said last week that she would formally resign on April 12.   

Supported by By Julia Jacobs President Trump said Thursday that he would nominate Jovita Carranza, the United States treasurer, to lead the Small Business Administration, replacing the former pro wrestling executive Linda E. McMahon. Ms. McMahon, the former chief executive of World Wrestling Entertainment, stepped down as the agency’s administrator last week. People familiar with Ms. McMahon’s thinking said she was expected to take a position at the America First PAC, a political action committee supporting Mr. Trump’s re-election, where she is expected to help raise money. Mr. Trump announced the nomination of her successor in a tweet. I am pleased to announce that Jovita Carranza will be nominated as the new @SBAgov Administrator. She will be replacing Linda McMahon, who has done an outstanding job. Jovita was a great Treasurer of the United States – and I look forward to her joining my Cabinet! At the Department of the Treasury, Ms. Carranza is currently an adviser to Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, oversees the Office of Consumer Policy and works with the Federal Reserve. She served as deputy administrator for the Small Business Administration under President George W. Bush. Ms. Carranza also spent more than 20 years at United Parcel Service, where she rose from a box handler during the night shift to president of Latin American and Caribbean operations, according to her Treasury Department biography. If confirmed by the Senate, Ms. Carranza will be one of five women in Mr. Trump’s cabinet. During the 2016 election, she served as a member of the National Hispanic Advisory Council for Trump. In announcing Ms. McMahon’s departure, Mr. Trump called her a “superstar” and “one of our all-time favorites.” Ms. McMahon was one of Mr. Trump’s most prolific donors during the 2016 presidential campaign and assumed the position of administrator early in his term. She ended up earning the respect of some Democrats, who praised her for expanding loans to women and for working to make the agency more efficient. Ms. McMahon said last week that she would formally resign on April 12.   Supported by Race/Related is a weekly newsletter focused on race, society and identity, with provocative stories from around The New York Times. By Lauretta Charlton Please sign up here to have the Race/Related newsletter delivered weekly to your inbox. What exactly is diversity? On Jan. 11, CBS News announced it had expanded its political team in preparation for the 2020 presidential campaign. The announcement included a photo of the network’s 12 new presidential campaign reporters and associate producers. There were men and women from a variety of ethnic backgrounds. Asian, Hispanic, Middle Eastern. None of them were black. The National Association of Black Journalists released a statement that said it was “very disappointed” and “disturbed.” Representative Maxine Waters of California asked for an “explanation.” The author Roxane Gay described the whole thing as a “disgrace.” Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York called it “unacceptable.” I, too, was disappointed by the photo, but I could hardly say I was surprised. Many news organizations are still struggling to diversify their staffs, The New York Times included. I’m a black woman who is an editor in a newsroom. I think it’s important that black people are represented in the editorial process, soup to nuts — editors, correspondents, producers, photographers, digital, print, you name it. However, as the backlash to the CBS News announcement played out, a question lingered in my mind: If black reporters had been represented, but, say, Asian-Americans or Hispanic-Americans or Muslim-Americans had not, what type of furor would have occurred, if any? Why or why not?  I plan to spend more time focused on this question in 2019. CBS News didn’t take any of this lying down, by the way. It clarified that the digital journalists and field reporters included in the photo were part of an “initial wave” of journalists who would be embedded with 2020 candidates. It also pointed out that Lorna Jones, a black woman, had been promoted to oversee much of the network’s political coverage. It should be said that CBS is in a moment of transition. Susan Zirinsky, who will be the first woman to run CBS News, is taking over from David Rhodes in March. Les Moonves, the former chief executive, stepped down in September following multiple accusations of sexual harassment. All three executives are white. In its statement, the president of the National Association of Black Journalists, Sarah Glover, said it’s unfortunate we’re still talking about diversity and inclusion 50 years after the Kerner Commission, in which the white news media was roundly criticized for failing to report on the rampant disparities faced by African-Americans in the 1960s. “The halls of Congress have become more diverse and more reflective of our American society,” Ms. Glover said. “It’s time for U.S. newsrooms to do the same. No excuses.” Lauretta Charlton is an editor on the National Desk and the editor of the Race/Related newsletter. She was previously a news editor at The New Yorker and a music columnist at New York magazine.  @laurettaland 

Supported by Race/Related is a weekly newsletter focused on race, society and identity, with provocative stories from around The New York Times. By Lauretta Charlton Please sign up here to have the Race/Related newsletter delivered weekly to your inbox. What exactly is diversity? On Jan. 11, CBS News announced it had expanded its political team in preparation for the 2020 presidential campaign. The announcement included a photo of the network’s 12 new presidential campaign reporters and associate producers. There were men and women from a variety of ethnic backgrounds. Asian, Hispanic, Middle Eastern. None of them were black. The National Association of Black Journalists released a statement that said it was “very disappointed” and “disturbed.” Representative Maxine Waters of California asked for an “explanation.” The author Roxane Gay described the whole thing as a “disgrace.” Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York called it “unacceptable.” I, too, was disappointed by the photo, but I could hardly say I was surprised. Many news organizations are still struggling to diversify their staffs, The New York Times included. I’m a black woman who is an editor in a newsroom. I think it’s important that black people are represented in the editorial process, soup to nuts — editors, correspondents, producers, photographers, digital, print, you name it. However, as the backlash to the CBS News announcement played out, a question lingered in my mind: If black reporters had been represented, but, say, Asian-Americans or Hispanic-Americans or Muslim-Americans had not, what type of furor would have occurred, if any? Why or why not?  I plan to spend more time focused on this question in 2019. CBS News didn’t take any of this lying down, by the way. It clarified that the digital journalists and field reporters included in the photo were part of an “initial wave” of journalists who would be embedded with 2020 candidates. It also pointed out that Lorna Jones, a black woman, had been promoted to oversee much of the network’s political coverage. It should be said that CBS is in a moment of transition. Susan Zirinsky, who will be the first woman to run CBS News, is taking over from David Rhodes in March. Les Moonves, the former chief executive, stepped down in September following multiple accusations of sexual harassment. All three executives are white. In its statement, the president of the National Association of Black Journalists, Sarah Glover, said it’s unfortunate we’re still talking about diversity and inclusion 50 years after the Kerner Commission, in which the white news media was roundly criticized for failing to report on the rampant disparities faced by African-Americans in the 1960s. “The halls of Congress have become more diverse and more reflective of our American society,” Ms. Glover said. “It’s time for U.S. newsrooms to do the same. No excuses.” Lauretta Charlton is an editor on the National Desk and the editor of the Race/Related newsletter. She was previously a news editor at The New Yorker and a music columnist at New York magazine.  @laurettaland Supported by Donald J. Trump has wielded the Sept. 11 attacks for many reasons, for a moment of somber reflection, for a campaign rallying cry and for personal gain. By Sarah Maslin Nir [What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.] With about two months left in the bruising 2016 presidential campaign, Donald J. Trump — the president-to-be who took on Gold Star parents and a federal judge, and seemed emboldened by the skirmishes — agreed to pause his campaign on the anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks. The unexpected show of decorum turned out to be a rare departure for President Trump, who has a history of using the Sept. 11 attacks to make political points, either by trying to burnish his own reputation or by damaging others’. The most recent example came last week, when Mr. Trump circulated a video on Twitter to escalate his political attacks on Representative Ilhan Omar, the first-term Democrat of Minnesota who is also one of the first Muslim women to serve in Congress.  Mr. Trump posted a 43-second video that interspersed a snippet of speech from Representative Ilhan Omar alongside footage of the Sept. 11 attacks. His intent was to criticize what he apparently perceived as dismissive comments about the attack made by the congresswoman. The tweet was shared widely by Mr. Trump’s supporters, who believe the words that Ms. Omar used to describe the attacks — “some people did something” — minimized the tragedy. The video, in which Ms. Omar’s words are smash cut with pictures of the World Trade Center on fire, drew condemnation from her supporters; they accused the president of using a small portion of a speech on civil rights to the Council on American-Islamic Relations, an anti-discrimination group, to foment xenophobia and an anti-Muslim sentiment. Representative Tim Ryan, an Ohio Democrat, was among several presidential hopefuls who criticized Mr. Trump’s tweet; he accused the president of being “irresponsible for invoking 9/11 for political gain.” “It’s un-American to its core because his whole goal is to divide us,” Mr. Ryan wrote on Twitter. “We deserve better than this from the most powerful office in the world.” On the presidential campaign trail, Mr. Trump asserted that he had a crow’s nest view of the attacks on the World Trade Center, saying that he had a window in his apartment that “was specifically aimed at the World Trade Center.” And from that window, Mr. Trump said he “watched those people jump, and I watched the second plane hit.” At the time, Mr. Trump lived at Trump Tower in Midtown Manhattan, about four miles from the Trade Center. Rick Reilly, the sports journalist and author of the book “Commander in Cheat: How Golf Explains Trump,” said the president claimed to have used a telescope. “I once looked through his telescope in his Trump Tower apartment that looked downtown,” Mr. Reilly wrote on Twitter. “He said, ‘I saw the towers come down through that telescope.’ I lifted my head up. ‘Oh my god,’ I gasped. ‘Solid gold,’ he said.” The landmark 72-story tower, 40 Wall Street, is commonly known as the Trump Building. After the terrorist attacks, Mr. Trump applied for and received $150,000 from a New York State recovery fund for small businesses. (Though Mr. Trump owns a business empire, he was eligible because the Trump-owned entity controlling 40 Wall Street had fewer than 500 employees, according to reports.)  Mr. Trump has said the money was an automatic reimbursement for housing volunteers and emergency personnel who responded to the devastation. But the application filed with the Empire State Development Corporation, which operated the fund, was for cleanup, repair and loss of rental income, according to a New York Daily News investigation. The day of the attacks, Mr. Trump said his building, about seven blocks from where the Trade Center stood, was unscathed.  Representative Jerrold Nadler, a Democrat from New York City who is chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, went so far on Sunday as to say Mr. Trump “stole” the funds. The 40 Wall Street episode, Mr. Nadler said on CNN, shortly after the video of Ms. Omar was shared, undermined the president's condemnation of her.  “He has no moral authority to be talking about 9/11 at all,” Mr. Nadler said. The building also came up during a television interview with Mr. Trump on Sept. 11, 2001. “40 Wall Street actually was the second-tallest building in downtown Manhattan and it was actually, before the World Trade Center, was the tallest — and then, when they built the World Trade Center, it became known as the second tallest,” Mr. Trump said on WWOR-TV. “And now it’s the tallest.”  Perhaps Mr. Trump’s most incendiary use of the terrorist attacks as a political point was made at a  campaign rally in Birmingham, Ala., in 2015. Mr. Trump, then a presidential candidate, told supporters that on the day of the attack, in Jersey City, just across the Hudson River from Manhattan, “thousands and thousands of people were cheering as that building was coming down. Thousands of people were cheering.”  Mr. Trump said the celebrants were Muslim. Mr. Trump continued to use the talking point throughout his campaign, even as reports of such celebrations were repeatedly debunked.  Pointing to reporting from The Washington Post in 2001 that said the police had looked into allegations of celebrations, Mr. Trump expressed vindication, and mocked the physical disability of a Post reporter whom he said corroborated his belief. (The reporter, Serge F. Kovaleski, now works for The Times.) In 2017, Mr. Trump signed into law an expansion of a 2001 act that created a medal of valor for 9/11 first responders, widening the scope of who was eligible for the award.  But the next year, the president’s proposed 2019 budget included restructuring the National Institutes of Health, a move that would have dried up some funding for health-related claims by people affected by the attacks.  After vociferous outcry from victims and lawmakers (a cause also picked up by the comic and talk show host Jon Stewart), the plan was scrapped.  In February, the September 11th Victim Compensation Fund announced it was running out of money and would have to slash payouts for new claimants by up to 70 percent, leading to calls for its renewal. The fund, which was almost quashed in 2011 by Republicans, is set to terminate in 2020.  In the weeks after the attacks, Mr. Trump appeared on the Howard Stern Show and pledged a $10,000 charitable donation to the Twin Towers Fund. During the 2016 presidential campaign, Mr. Trump made references to his Sept. 11 donations and to other efforts to help out at ground zero.  But in October 2016, Scott M. Stringer, the New York City comptroller, found no donation made by Mr. Trump to that charity in the 12-month period following the on-air pledge.  As president, Mr. Trump has been in office for two anniversaries of the event. In 2017, he marked the occasion at the Pentagon in a somber memorial. “On that day not only did the world change, but we all changed,” Mr. Trump said at the time. “Our differences never looked so small, our common bonds never felt so strong.”  Last year, Mr. Trump visited the Flight 93 National Memorial in Pennsylvania, the site where passengers brought down a plane hijacked by terrorists on Sept. 11. “This field is now a monument to American defiance,” he said at the ceremony. “America will never, ever submit to tyranny.” (That same year, he used the occasion to praise Rudolph W. Giuliani, his lawyer, who was mayor of New York City at the time of the attack.) In 2013, before he was president, Mr. Trump struck a very different tone on Twitter: Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this article misstated the publication month of Rick Reilly's book on President Trump. It was published in April; it is not due out in May. Sarah Maslin Nir covers breaking news for the Metro section. She was a Pulitzer Prize finalist for her series “Unvarnished,” an investigation into New York City’s nail salon industry that documented the exploitative labor practices and health issues manicurists face.  @SarahMaslinNir 

Supported by Donald J. Trump has wielded the Sept. 11 attacks for many reasons, for a moment of somber reflection, for a campaign rallying cry and for personal gain. By Sarah Maslin Nir [What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.] With about two months left in the bruising 2016 presidential campaign, Donald J. Trump — the president-to-be who took on Gold Star parents and a federal judge, and seemed emboldened by the skirmishes — agreed to pause his campaign on the anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks. The unexpected show of decorum turned out to be a rare departure for President Trump, who has a history of using the Sept. 11 attacks to make political points, either by trying to burnish his own reputation or by damaging others’. The most recent example came last week, when Mr. Trump circulated a video on Twitter to escalate his political attacks on Representative Ilhan Omar, the first-term Democrat of Minnesota who is also one of the first Muslim women to serve in Congress.  Mr. Trump posted a 43-second video that interspersed a snippet of speech from Representative Ilhan Omar alongside footage of the Sept. 11 attacks. His intent was to criticize what he apparently perceived as dismissive comments about the attack made by the congresswoman. The tweet was shared widely by Mr. Trump’s supporters, who believe the words that Ms. Omar used to describe the attacks — “some people did something” — minimized the tragedy. The video, in which Ms. Omar’s words are smash cut with pictures of the World Trade Center on fire, drew condemnation from her supporters; they accused the president of using a small portion of a speech on civil rights to the Council on American-Islamic Relations, an anti-discrimination group, to foment xenophobia and an anti-Muslim sentiment. Representative Tim Ryan, an Ohio Democrat, was among several presidential hopefuls who criticized Mr. Trump’s tweet; he accused the president of being “irresponsible for invoking 9/11 for political gain.” “It’s un-American to its core because his whole goal is to divide us,” Mr. Ryan wrote on Twitter. “We deserve better than this from the most powerful office in the world.” On the presidential campaign trail, Mr. Trump asserted that he had a crow’s nest view of the attacks on the World Trade Center, saying that he had a window in his apartment that “was specifically aimed at the World Trade Center.” And from that window, Mr. Trump said he “watched those people jump, and I watched the second plane hit.” At the time, Mr. Trump lived at Trump Tower in Midtown Manhattan, about four miles from the Trade Center. Rick Reilly, the sports journalist and author of the book “Commander in Cheat: How Golf Explains Trump,” said the president claimed to have used a telescope. “I once looked through his telescope in his Trump Tower apartment that looked downtown,” Mr. Reilly wrote on Twitter. “He said, ‘I saw the towers come down through that telescope.’ I lifted my head up. ‘Oh my god,’ I gasped. ‘Solid gold,’ he said.” The landmark 72-story tower, 40 Wall Street, is commonly known as the Trump Building. After the terrorist attacks, Mr. Trump applied for and received $150,000 from a New York State recovery fund for small businesses. (Though Mr. Trump owns a business empire, he was eligible because the Trump-owned entity controlling 40 Wall Street had fewer than 500 employees, according to reports.)  Mr. Trump has said the money was an automatic reimbursement for housing volunteers and emergency personnel who responded to the devastation. But the application filed with the Empire State Development Corporation, which operated the fund, was for cleanup, repair and loss of rental income, according to a New York Daily News investigation. The day of the attacks, Mr. Trump said his building, about seven blocks from where the Trade Center stood, was unscathed.  Representative Jerrold Nadler, a Democrat from New York City who is chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, went so far on Sunday as to say Mr. Trump “stole” the funds. The 40 Wall Street episode, Mr. Nadler said on CNN, shortly after the video of Ms. Omar was shared, undermined the president's condemnation of her.  “He has no moral authority to be talking about 9/11 at all,” Mr. Nadler said. The building also came up during a television interview with Mr. Trump on Sept. 11, 2001. “40 Wall Street actually was the second-tallest building in downtown Manhattan and it was actually, before the World Trade Center, was the tallest — and then, when they built the World Trade Center, it became known as the second tallest,” Mr. Trump said on WWOR-TV. “And now it’s the tallest.”  Perhaps Mr. Trump’s most incendiary use of the terrorist attacks as a political point was made at a  campaign rally in Birmingham, Ala., in 2015. Mr. Trump, then a presidential candidate, told supporters that on the day of the attack, in Jersey City, just across the Hudson River from Manhattan, “thousands and thousands of people were cheering as that building was coming down. Thousands of people were cheering.”  Mr. Trump said the celebrants were Muslim. Mr. Trump continued to use the talking point throughout his campaign, even as reports of such celebrations were repeatedly debunked.  Pointing to reporting from The Washington Post in 2001 that said the police had looked into allegations of celebrations, Mr. Trump expressed vindication, and mocked the physical disability of a Post reporter whom he said corroborated his belief. (The reporter, Serge F. Kovaleski, now works for The Times.) In 2017, Mr. Trump signed into law an expansion of a 2001 act that created a medal of valor for 9/11 first responders, widening the scope of who was eligible for the award.  But the next year, the president’s proposed 2019 budget included restructuring the National Institutes of Health, a move that would have dried up some funding for health-related claims by people affected by the attacks.  After vociferous outcry from victims and lawmakers (a cause also picked up by the comic and talk show host Jon Stewart), the plan was scrapped.  In February, the September 11th Victim Compensation Fund announced it was running out of money and would have to slash payouts for new claimants by up to 70 percent, leading to calls for its renewal. The fund, which was almost quashed in 2011 by Republicans, is set to terminate in 2020.  In the weeks after the attacks, Mr. Trump appeared on the Howard Stern Show and pledged a $10,000 charitable donation to the Twin Towers Fund. During the 2016 presidential campaign, Mr. Trump made references to his Sept. 11 donations and to other efforts to help out at ground zero.  But in October 2016, Scott M. Stringer, the New York City comptroller, found no donation made by Mr. Trump to that charity in the 12-month period following the on-air pledge.  As president, Mr. Trump has been in office for two anniversaries of the event. In 2017, he marked the occasion at the Pentagon in a somber memorial. “On that day not only did the world change, but we all changed,” Mr. Trump said at the time. “Our differences never looked so small, our common bonds never felt so strong.”  Last year, Mr. Trump visited the Flight 93 National Memorial in Pennsylvania, the site where passengers brought down a plane hijacked by terrorists on Sept. 11. “This field is now a monument to American defiance,” he said at the ceremony. “America will never, ever submit to tyranny.” (That same year, he used the occasion to praise Rudolph W. Giuliani, his lawyer, who was mayor of New York City at the time of the attack.) In 2013, before he was president, Mr. Trump struck a very different tone on Twitter: Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this article misstated the publication month of Rick Reilly's book on President Trump. It was published in April; it is not due out in May. Sarah Maslin Nir covers breaking news for the Metro section. She was a Pulitzer Prize finalist for her series “Unvarnished,” an investigation into New York City’s nail salon industry that documented the exploitative labor practices and health issues manicurists face.  @SarahMaslinNir Supported by By Maggie Astor Representative Tim Ryan of Ohio, a Democrat from one of the nation’s most coveted swing states, announced his candidacy for president on Thursday, bringing the Democratic primary field to 17. Mr. Ryan, who represents a district in northeastern Ohio that includes Youngstown and part of Akron, is perhaps best known at the national level for his criticism of House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, and his accompanying argument that Democrats have stopped connecting with working-class voters, especially in the Midwest. He challenged Ms. Pelosi for the minority leader position in 2016 and, two years later, was again a leader of a push to elect someone else. He began his presidential campaign with a TV appearance Thursday morning on “The View,” in which he emphasized jobs and the economy. “I’m a progressive who knows how to talk to working-class people,” he said. “At the end of the day, the progressive agenda is what’s best for working families.” [Here’s where Mr. Ryan stands on the issues.] In an interview with The New York Times a few hours later, Mr. Ryan argued that he was better positioned than any other candidate to address “economic disorientation” in places like Youngstown and Akron. He spoke in particular about the potential of electric vehicles and other renewable energy industries to create jobs for people displaced by the decline in manufacturing. “I want a businessperson in Michigan to say, ‘I think Tim Ryan really understands what we need to do around electric vehicles,’” he said, “and I want a worker in Michigan going: ‘Yeah, we just lost our job. Let’s make electric. That seems like it’s the future.’” It was the sort of message — progressive populism to challenge right-wing, Trumpist populism — that some voters had expected to hear from one of Mr. Ryan’s fellow Ohioans, Senator Sherrod Brown, who flirted with the idea of a presidential campaign before deciding last month not to run. [Who’s in? Who’s out? Keep up with the 2020 field with our candidate tracker.] Over his 16 years in the House, Mr. Ryan has also shifted to the left on some of the country’s most contentious issues. For much of his career, he opposed abortion, citing his Catholic faith. But in 2015, he wrote an op-ed for The Akron Beacon Journal in which he said that after speaking with women about their reasons for choosing to have abortions, he had “come to believe that we must trust women and families — not politicians — to make the best decision for their lives.” He made a similar reversal on gun policy after the Las Vegas mass shooting in 2017, breaking publicly from the National Rifle Association — which had previously given him A ratings — and announcing that he would take the roughly $20,000 he had received from its political action committee and donate it to organizations seeking stricter gun laws. That was the culmination of a shift in thinking that began after the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting five years earlier, he said Thursday. He is also a co-sponsor of Representative Pramila Jayapal’s Medicare for All bill. The Republican National Committee highlighted that support in its response to Mr. Ryan’s announcement, calling him one more addition “to the long list of liberal candidates demanding government-run health care.” Mr. Ryan’s path to the nomination is steep, and not just because the field is so crowded. The last — and only — sitting House member to be elected president was James Garfield in 1880. But Mr. Ryan believes there is an opening in the race for a Midwesterner who can focus on winning back the voters who flipped to President Trump in 2016, turning states like Michigan and Wisconsin red for the first time in about three decades. Of the 17 Democratic candidates, only three — Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota; Mayor Pete Buttigieg of South Bend, Ind.; and Mr. Ryan — are from the Midwest. “Who can win western PA?” he said. “Who can win Ohio? Who can win Michigan, Wisconsin? I think I’ll be as well if not better positioned than anybody else to be able to win those states.” “I think somebody from the Midwest could be a healing candidate in the sense that we’re so divided,” he added. “You can have a great 10-point plan, but if we don’t figure out how to come together, then we’re not going anywhere.” On “The View,” Mr. Ryan said his daughter had called him one day, crying, to tell him her friend was going to have to move because a local General Motors plant had closed. “My daughter called me and said, ‘You’ve got to do something,’” Mr. Ryan recalled. “And I said: ‘I’m going to do something. I’m going to run for president of the United States.’” Matt Stevens contributed reporting. 

Supported by By Maggie Astor Representative Tim Ryan of Ohio, a Democrat from one of the nation’s most coveted swing states, announced his candidacy for president on Thursday, bringing the Democratic primary field to 17. Mr. Ryan, who represents a district in northeastern Ohio that includes Youngstown and part of Akron, is perhaps best known at the national level for his criticism of House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, and his accompanying argument that Democrats have stopped connecting with working-class voters, especially in the Midwest. He challenged Ms. Pelosi for the minority leader position in 2016 and, two years later, was again a leader of a push to elect someone else. He began his presidential campaign with a TV appearance Thursday morning on “The View,” in which he emphasized jobs and the economy. “I’m a progressive who knows how to talk to working-class people,” he said. “At the end of the day, the progressive agenda is what’s best for working families.” [Here’s where Mr. Ryan stands on the issues.] In an interview with The New York Times a few hours later, Mr. Ryan argued that he was better positioned than any other candidate to address “economic disorientation” in places like Youngstown and Akron. He spoke in particular about the potential of electric vehicles and other renewable energy industries to create jobs for people displaced by the decline in manufacturing. “I want a businessperson in Michigan to say, ‘I think Tim Ryan really understands what we need to do around electric vehicles,’” he said, “and I want a worker in Michigan going: ‘Yeah, we just lost our job. Let’s make electric. That seems like it’s the future.’” It was the sort of message — progressive populism to challenge right-wing, Trumpist populism — that some voters had expected to hear from one of Mr. Ryan’s fellow Ohioans, Senator Sherrod Brown, who flirted with the idea of a presidential campaign before deciding last month not to run. [Who’s in? Who’s out? Keep up with the 2020 field with our candidate tracker.] Over his 16 years in the House, Mr. Ryan has also shifted to the left on some of the country’s most contentious issues. For much of his career, he opposed abortion, citing his Catholic faith. But in 2015, he wrote an op-ed for The Akron Beacon Journal in which he said that after speaking with women about their reasons for choosing to have abortions, he had “come to believe that we must trust women and families — not politicians — to make the best decision for their lives.” He made a similar reversal on gun policy after the Las Vegas mass shooting in 2017, breaking publicly from the National Rifle Association — which had previously given him A ratings — and announcing that he would take the roughly $20,000 he had received from its political action committee and donate it to organizations seeking stricter gun laws. That was the culmination of a shift in thinking that began after the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting five years earlier, he said Thursday. He is also a co-sponsor of Representative Pramila Jayapal’s Medicare for All bill. The Republican National Committee highlighted that support in its response to Mr. Ryan’s announcement, calling him one more addition “to the long list of liberal candidates demanding government-run health care.” Mr. Ryan’s path to the nomination is steep, and not just because the field is so crowded. The last — and only — sitting House member to be elected president was James Garfield in 1880. But Mr. Ryan believes there is an opening in the race for a Midwesterner who can focus on winning back the voters who flipped to President Trump in 2016, turning states like Michigan and Wisconsin red for the first time in about three decades. Of the 17 Democratic candidates, only three — Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota; Mayor Pete Buttigieg of South Bend, Ind.; and Mr. Ryan — are from the Midwest. “Who can win western PA?” he said. “Who can win Ohio? Who can win Michigan, Wisconsin? I think I’ll be as well if not better positioned than anybody else to be able to win those states.” “I think somebody from the Midwest could be a healing candidate in the sense that we’re so divided,” he added. “You can have a great 10-point plan, but if we don’t figure out how to come together, then we’re not going anywhere.” On “The View,” Mr. Ryan said his daughter had called him one day, crying, to tell him her friend was going to have to move because a local General Motors plant had closed. “My daughter called me and said, ‘You’ve got to do something,’” Mr. Ryan recalled. “And I said: ‘I’m going to do something. I’m going to run for president of the United States.’” Matt Stevens contributed reporting. Supported by By The Associated Press YORBA LINDA, Calif. — Ed Nixon, the younger brother of President Richard Nixon who spent years promoting his brother's legacy, was remembered at a memorial service as a Navy aviator, geologist, global energy expert, husband and father, the Orange County Register reported. The youngest and last surviving brother of the president died Feb. 27 at a nursing home in Bothell, Washington. He was 88. The Sunday service, attended by about 200 people at the Nixon Presidential Library and Museum in Yorba Linda, California, featured a gun salute and a flag presentation. Ed Nixon's two daughters, Amelie Peiffer and Elizabeth Matheny, and two granddaughters, Jilly Matheny and Karina Johnson, were in attendance, as was Melanie Eisenhower, President Nixon's granddaughter. Ed Nixon was born in 1930 after Frank and Hannah Nixon had moved their family to Whittier, California. He was the only Nixon boy not born in the Yorba Linda home now part of the library grounds. Maureen Drown Nunn, who served with him on the Nixon Foundation's board, recalled him telling a story about being 9 years old and taking a 39-hour train ride to Detroit with Richard, then 26, to pick up a new 1939 Oldsmobile from the factory. On the drive back to California, his brother made it a point to stop at many of the country's natural wonders and historic sites. "Ed was so inspired and so transfixed, that he decided to become a scientist," Nunn said. "He was so smart and so creative and so passionate about the role science and geology can play in the extracting of natural resources as potential for alternative energy sources." Ed Nixon worked on his brother's presidential campaigns in 1968 and 1972 and served as co-chairman of the Nixon re-election committee in 1972. After the president's visit to China in 1972, a key first step in establishing relations between the two countries, Ed Nixon made more than 30 diplomatic trips to the country. Zhang Ping, consul general of the People's Republic of China in Los Angeles, was also among the guests at the memorial. ___ Information from: The Orange County Register, http://www.ocregister.com

Supported by By The Associated Press YORBA LINDA, Calif. — Ed Nixon, the younger brother of President Richard Nixon who spent years promoting his brother's legacy, was remembered at a memorial service as a Navy aviator, geologist, global energy expert, husband and father, the Orange County Register reported. The youngest and last surviving brother of the president died Feb. 27 at a nursing home in Bothell, Washington. He was 88. The Sunday service, attended by about 200 people at the Nixon Presidential Library and Museum in Yorba Linda, California, featured a gun salute and a flag presentation. Ed Nixon's two daughters, Amelie Peiffer and Elizabeth Matheny, and two granddaughters, Jilly Matheny and Karina Johnson, were in attendance, as was Melanie Eisenhower, President Nixon's granddaughter. Ed Nixon was born in 1930 after Frank and Hannah Nixon had moved their family to Whittier, California. He was the only Nixon boy not born in the Yorba Linda home now part of the library grounds. Maureen Drown Nunn, who served with him on the Nixon Foundation's board, recalled him telling a story about being 9 years old and taking a 39-hour train ride to Detroit with Richard, then 26, to pick up a new 1939 Oldsmobile from the factory. On the drive back to California, his brother made it a point to stop at many of the country's natural wonders and historic sites. "Ed was so inspired and so transfixed, that he decided to become a scientist," Nunn said. "He was so smart and so creative and so passionate about the role science and geology can play in the extracting of natural resources as potential for alternative energy sources." Ed Nixon worked on his brother's presidential campaigns in 1968 and 1972 and served as co-chairman of the Nixon re-election committee in 1972. After the president's visit to China in 1972, a key first step in establishing relations between the two countries, Ed Nixon made more than 30 diplomatic trips to the country. Zhang Ping, consul general of the People's Republic of China in Los Angeles, was also among the guests at the memorial. ___ Information from: The Orange County Register, http://www.ocregister.comSupported by By The Associated Press Your daily look at late breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about today: 1. A DAY 2 YEARS IN THE MAKING The Justice Department prepares to release a redacted version of the special counsel's report on Russian election interference and Trump's presidential campaign. 2. NORTH KOREA SAYS IT TESTED NEW WEAPON Pyongyang says that it has test-fired a "tactical guided weapon," its first such test in nearly half a year, and demands that Washington remove Mike Pompeo from nuclear negotiations. 3. FRANCE TO SALUTE ITS BRAVEST France is paying a daylong tribute to the Paris firefighters who saved the internationally revered Notre Dame Cathedral from collapse and rescued its treasures from encroaching flames. 4. 'WE DON'T GET OVER IT' Mental health resources vary widely, but the problem is getting survivors of school shootings to seek counseling in the first place. 5. WHAT IS IMPORTANT TO YOUNG INDIAN VOTERS They are more concerned about landing jobs after college, living in cleaner cities with breathable air, increasing safety for women, and competing with top world economies. 6. FORECASTERS TURN TO TECHNOLOGY TO FIGHT FLOODWATERS Drones, supercomputers and sonar that scans deep under water are helping to maintain flood control projects and predict just where rivers will roar over their banks. 7. POLL: CHURCH MEMBERSHIP IN US PLUMMETS The percentage of U.S. adults who belong to a church or other religious institution plunges by 20 percentage points over the past two decades, hitting a low of 50% last year, a new Gallup poll finds. 8. MAN WITH GAS CANS ARRESTED AT ST. PATRICK'S CATHEDRAL Police say a New Jersey man entered the iconic church carrying two cans of gasoline, lighter fluid and butane lighters. 9. EARTH, MEET POLO Polo Ralph Lauren launches a version of its iconic polo shirt made entirely of recycled plastic bottles and dyed through a process that uses zero water. 10. WHO WORLD CHAMPS OPEN UP AGAINST The NFL's 100th season will feature the Super Bowl champion New England Patriots hosting the Pittsburgh Steelers in the first Sunday night game.

Supported by By The Associated Press Your daily look at late breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about today: 1. A DAY 2 YEARS IN THE MAKING The Justice Department prepares to release a redacted version of the special counsel's report on Russian election interference and Trump's presidential campaign. 2. NORTH KOREA SAYS IT TESTED NEW WEAPON Pyongyang says that it has test-fired a "tactical guided weapon," its first such test in nearly half a year, and demands that Washington remove Mike Pompeo from nuclear negotiations. 3. FRANCE TO SALUTE ITS BRAVEST France is paying a daylong tribute to the Paris firefighters who saved the internationally revered Notre Dame Cathedral from collapse and rescued its treasures from encroaching flames. 4. 'WE DON'T GET OVER IT' Mental health resources vary widely, but the problem is getting survivors of school shootings to seek counseling in the first place. 5. WHAT IS IMPORTANT TO YOUNG INDIAN VOTERS They are more concerned about landing jobs after college, living in cleaner cities with breathable air, increasing safety for women, and competing with top world economies. 6. FORECASTERS TURN TO TECHNOLOGY TO FIGHT FLOODWATERS Drones, supercomputers and sonar that scans deep under water are helping to maintain flood control projects and predict just where rivers will roar over their banks. 7. POLL: CHURCH MEMBERSHIP IN US PLUMMETS The percentage of U.S. adults who belong to a church or other religious institution plunges by 20 percentage points over the past two decades, hitting a low of 50% last year, a new Gallup poll finds. 8. MAN WITH GAS CANS ARRESTED AT ST. PATRICK'S CATHEDRAL Police say a New Jersey man entered the iconic church carrying two cans of gasoline, lighter fluid and butane lighters. 9. EARTH, MEET POLO Polo Ralph Lauren launches a version of its iconic polo shirt made entirely of recycled plastic bottles and dyed through a process that uses zero water. 10. WHO WORLD CHAMPS OPEN UP AGAINST The NFL's 100th season will feature the Super Bowl champion New England Patriots hosting the Pittsburgh Steelers in the first Sunday night game.Supported by By The Associated Press NEW YORK — A Guatemalan presidential candidate was arrested Wednesday in Miami on drug and weapons charges, accused of plotting to assassinate political rivals and to let drug dealers use Guatemala's ports and airports. The candidate, Mario Amilcar Estrada Orellana, 58, and an alleged accomplice, Juan Pablo Gonzalez Mayorga, 50, were scheduled to appear Thursday before a federal magistrate in Miami on charges brought in New York, Manhattan U.S. Attorney Geoffrey S. Berman said in a release. "Estrada and Gonzalez conspired to solicit Sinaloa Cartel money to finance a corrupt scheme to elect Estrada president of Guatemala," Berman said. "In return, the two allegedly promised to assist the cartel in using Guatemalan ports and airports to export tons of cocaine into the U.S." The prosecutor credited the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration with building the case against the men with the aid of confidential sources. "As further alleged, Estrada and Gonzalez attempted to arrange the assassinations of political rivals," he said. "Thanks to the DEA, Estrada stands no chance of election in Guatemala, but he and Gonzalez face justice in the United States." Both men were charged with conspiring to import cocaine into the United States and a related weapons offense. It was unclear who will represent them when they appear before a federal court in Miami. Adolphus P. Wright, a DEA official, said the investigation was aided by a strong partnership with Guatemalan law enforcement authorities. "Together with our international law enforcement partners, we will continue our efforts to keep illegal drug trafficking from corrupting the just political systems of our Central and South American neighbors, as we also endeavor to prevent such activity from harming the United States," he said. According to a criminal complaint unsealed Wednesday, the DEA has been investigating several individuals since December after learning there were efforts to secure financing from international drug cartels to support Estrada's presidential campaign. The evidence against the men includes video and audio communications, according to the complaint. Authorities said Estrada and Gonzalez in the assassination plot identified specific targets by name and agreed to provide hit men with firearms, including AK-47s, to carry out murders.

Supported by By The Associated Press NEW YORK — A Guatemalan presidential candidate was arrested Wednesday in Miami on drug and weapons charges, accused of plotting to assassinate political rivals and to let drug dealers use Guatemala's ports and airports. The candidate, Mario Amilcar Estrada Orellana, 58, and an alleged accomplice, Juan Pablo Gonzalez Mayorga, 50, were scheduled to appear Thursday before a federal magistrate in Miami on charges brought in New York, Manhattan U.S. Attorney Geoffrey S. Berman said in a release. "Estrada and Gonzalez conspired to solicit Sinaloa Cartel money to finance a corrupt scheme to elect Estrada president of Guatemala," Berman said. "In return, the two allegedly promised to assist the cartel in using Guatemalan ports and airports to export tons of cocaine into the U.S." The prosecutor credited the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration with building the case against the men with the aid of confidential sources. "As further alleged, Estrada and Gonzalez attempted to arrange the assassinations of political rivals," he said. "Thanks to the DEA, Estrada stands no chance of election in Guatemala, but he and Gonzalez face justice in the United States." Both men were charged with conspiring to import cocaine into the United States and a related weapons offense. It was unclear who will represent them when they appear before a federal court in Miami. Adolphus P. Wright, a DEA official, said the investigation was aided by a strong partnership with Guatemalan law enforcement authorities. "Together with our international law enforcement partners, we will continue our efforts to keep illegal drug trafficking from corrupting the just political systems of our Central and South American neighbors, as we also endeavor to prevent such activity from harming the United States," he said. According to a criminal complaint unsealed Wednesday, the DEA has been investigating several individuals since December after learning there were efforts to secure financing from international drug cartels to support Estrada's presidential campaign. The evidence against the men includes video and audio communications, according to the complaint. Authorities said Estrada and Gonzalez in the assassination plot identified specific targets by name and agreed to provide hit men with firearms, including AK-47s, to carry out murders.Supported by Article of the Day By Jeremy Engle Before reading the article: On Feb. 7, Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York and Senator Edward J. Markey of Massachusetts introduced a congressional resolution known as the Green New Deal — a sweeping and ambitious call for a “10-year national mobilization” to combat climate change. In “Liberal Democrats Formally Call for a ‘Green New Deal,’ Giving Substance to a Rallying Cry,” Lisa Friedman and Glenn Thrush write: Liberal Democrats put flesh on their “Green New Deal” slogan on Thursday with a sweeping resolution intended to redefine the national debate on climate change by calling for the United States to eliminate additional emissions of carbon by 2030. They continue: … as a blueprint for liberal ambition, it was breathtaking. It includes a 10-year commitment to convert “100 percent of the power demand in the United States” to “clean, renewable and zero-emission energy sources,” to upgrade “all existing buildings” to meet energy efficiency requirements, and to expand high-speed rail so broadly that most air travel would be rendered obsolete. Watch the two-minute video, “How Politicians Are Reacting to a Green New Deal,” and answer the following questions: • Who has endorsed the Green New Deal and why? • Why are some Republicans criticizing it? • Why is the resolution getting so much attention? Now, read the article, “Nine Key Questions About the Green New Deal,” and answer the following questions:  1. What kind of a congressional proposal is the Green New Deal? If it is approved by Congress, what will happen? 2. The resolution uses two major reports as its guide. What picture of climate change do those reports present? 3. What are the central goals of the Green New Deal? Give three examples of provisions intended to meet them. 4. How have critics responded to the Green New Deal? Why has there been some confusion about what exactly is in the resolution? 5. Why does the resolution include issues of social justice, like jobs, housing, human rights and oppression? How does it connect these issues to climate change? 6. The article says the Green New Deal would “change the way we design buildings, travel and eat.” In your own words, explain how. 7. From where does the Green New Deal take its name and inspiration? Why do you think the drafters of the resolution chose this historical precedent? 8. How much might the Green New Deal cost? Why is it difficult to calculate this figure? 9. The article concludes: There is going to be a lot more political jockeying around the Green New Deal in coming weeks and months … It is likely that the Green New Deal will remain a lightning rod throughout the 2020 presidential campaign. How has the Green New Deal affected debate on climate change and the 2020 presidential campaign? Finally, tell us more about what you think:  — What do you think of the Green New Deal? Is it a bold vision to address the dire situation of global warming? Or is it an unrealistic, everything-but-the-kitchen-sink approach that will not lead to real changes? Which aspects of the Green New Deal resonate the most? Which do you find least persuasive? — How important is the issue of climate change? Do you think this country is doing enough to address the problem? Is the Green New Deal a step in the right direction or an example of government overreach? In “The Green New Deal Is Everything That’s Wrong with Progressive Environmentalism,” David French writes: Nobody has to be a progressive to be concerned about the environment. Nobody has to be a progressive to respond to climate change. Any proposal that conditions response to climate change on the adoption of the full progressive platform is not only doomed to fail, but raises the question of whether the declared climate emergency is more pretext than crisis. There’s a need for a serious discussion about our climate. The Green New Deal is not serious. — Do you agree? Is the Green New Deal wrong to connect climate change to other progressive issues? Related New York Times Coverage: “The Daily” podcast: “Promise and Peril of the Green New Deal” “A Green New Deal Is Technologically Possible. Its Political Prospects Are Another Question.” “Pressed by Climate Activists, Senate Democrats Plan to ‘Go on Offense’” Opinion: “The Green New Deal Is Better Than Our Climate Nightmare” “Can America Still Build Big? A California Rail Project Raises Doubts”

Supported by Article of the Day By Jeremy Engle Before reading the article: On Feb. 7, Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York and Senator Edward J. Markey of Massachusetts introduced a congressional resolution known as the Green New Deal — a sweeping and ambitious call for a “10-year national mobilization” to combat climate change. In “Liberal Democrats Formally Call for a ‘Green New Deal,’ Giving Substance to a Rallying Cry,” Lisa Friedman and Glenn Thrush write: Liberal Democrats put flesh on their “Green New Deal” slogan on Thursday with a sweeping resolution intended to redefine the national debate on climate change by calling for the United States to eliminate additional emissions of carbon by 2030. They continue: … as a blueprint for liberal ambition, it was breathtaking. It includes a 10-year commitment to convert “100 percent of the power demand in the United States” to “clean, renewable and zero-emission energy sources,” to upgrade “all existing buildings” to meet energy efficiency requirements, and to expand high-speed rail so broadly that most air travel would be rendered obsolete. Watch the two-minute video, “How Politicians Are Reacting to a Green New Deal,” and answer the following questions: • Who has endorsed the Green New Deal and why? • Why are some Republicans criticizing it? • Why is the resolution getting so much attention? Now, read the article, “Nine Key Questions About the Green New Deal,” and answer the following questions:  1. What kind of a congressional proposal is the Green New Deal? If it is approved by Congress, what will happen? 2. The resolution uses two major reports as its guide. What picture of climate change do those reports present? 3. What are the central goals of the Green New Deal? Give three examples of provisions intended to meet them. 4. How have critics responded to the Green New Deal? Why has there been some confusion about what exactly is in the resolution? 5. Why does the resolution include issues of social justice, like jobs, housing, human rights and oppression? How does it connect these issues to climate change? 6. The article says the Green New Deal would “change the way we design buildings, travel and eat.” In your own words, explain how. 7. From where does the Green New Deal take its name and inspiration? Why do you think the drafters of the resolution chose this historical precedent? 8. How much might the Green New Deal cost? Why is it difficult to calculate this figure? 9. The article concludes: There is going to be a lot more political jockeying around the Green New Deal in coming weeks and months … It is likely that the Green New Deal will remain a lightning rod throughout the 2020 presidential campaign. How has the Green New Deal affected debate on climate change and the 2020 presidential campaign? Finally, tell us more about what you think:  — What do you think of the Green New Deal? Is it a bold vision to address the dire situation of global warming? Or is it an unrealistic, everything-but-the-kitchen-sink approach that will not lead to real changes? Which aspects of the Green New Deal resonate the most? Which do you find least persuasive? — How important is the issue of climate change? Do you think this country is doing enough to address the problem? Is the Green New Deal a step in the right direction or an example of government overreach? In “The Green New Deal Is Everything That’s Wrong with Progressive Environmentalism,” David French writes: Nobody has to be a progressive to be concerned about the environment. Nobody has to be a progressive to respond to climate change. Any proposal that conditions response to climate change on the adoption of the full progressive platform is not only doomed to fail, but raises the question of whether the declared climate emergency is more pretext than crisis. There’s a need for a serious discussion about our climate. The Green New Deal is not serious. — Do you agree? Is the Green New Deal wrong to connect climate change to other progressive issues? Related New York Times Coverage: “The Daily” podcast: “Promise and Peril of the Green New Deal” “A Green New Deal Is Technologically Possible. Its Political Prospects Are Another Question.” “Pressed by Climate Activists, Senate Democrats Plan to ‘Go on Offense’” Opinion: “The Green New Deal Is Better Than Our Climate Nightmare” “Can America Still Build Big? A California Rail Project Raises Doubts”Supported by By Thomas Kaplan WASHINGTON — Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont raised $18.2 million over the first six weeks of his presidential bid, his campaign announced Tuesday, a display of financial strength that cements his status as one of the top fund-raisers in the sprawling Democratic field. Mr. Sanders received almost 900,000 contributions from 525,000 individual donors, his campaign manager, Faiz Shakir, said. The average donation was $20, compared with $27 in Mr. Sanders’s 2016 presidential campaign, he said. Mr. Shakir said that a majority of Mr. Sanders’s donors were under the age of 39, and that 20 percent of all donors had not contributed to Mr. Sanders’s previous campaigns. He said that 88 percent of the total money raised came from donors giving $200 or less. Mr. Sanders’s announcement of his fund-raising for the first quarter of the year had been highly anticipated, as he was expected to reveal a sizable total. Presidential candidates must report their first-quarter fund-raising to the Federal Election Commission by April 15, but they can choose to disclose information before that deadline. The announcement on Tuesday offered a chance for Mr. Sanders’s team to showcase the breadth of support for his campaign. [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] His total for the quarter is the largest announced by a Democratic candidate so far, though most campaigns have not made their numbers public. Senator Kamala Harris of California raised $12 million in the first quarter, her campaign said on Monday. Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Ind., said on Monday that he had raised more than $7 million. Both candidates entered the race in January, several weeks before Mr. Sanders announced his candidacy. Andrew Yang, a New York businessman who is running on a platform that the United States should provide a universal basic income, said Tuesday that he had raised more than $1.7 million from over 80,000 donors — noteworthy figures for a political newcomer. His average donation was $17.92, he said, an amount even smaller than Mr. Sanders’s. Former Representative Beto O’Rourke of Texas, who entered the race in March and has been a prolific online fund-raiser, has yet to announce his haul for the quarter. The fund-raising totals are important beyond the symbolic value they carry for candidates who can point to large numbers of supporters. The Iowa caucuses are still 10 months away, meaning that Democratic candidates will need to be able to fund their campaigns for a long stretch of time just to make it to the first nominating contest. [Who’s in? Who’s out? Keep up with the 2020 field with our candidate tracker.] “There is zero question now that Bernie will be able to build a very strong and formidable campaign operation,” said Mo Elleithee, who was a spokesman for Hillary Clinton’s 2008 presidential campaign and is now the executive director of Georgetown University’s Institute of Politics and Public Service. But Mr. Elleithee said it remained to be seen whether Mr. Sanders’s backers would stick with him as time went on. “What will be interesting is: Is this sustainable as other candidates get better known?” he said. Mr. Sanders posted a bigger opening number than he did in the last presidential race, when he raised about $14 million in the quarter that covered April through June of 2015. Mr. Shakir said it took 146 days, or about 21 weeks, for Mr. Sanders to reach 900,000 donations in that campaign. But the amount raised by Mr. Sanders this quarter was not off the charts for a Democratic presidential hopeful. Mrs. Clinton raised about $47 million in her first quarter as a candidate in the 2016 campaign, though unlike Mr. Sanders, she relied heavily on big donations. Mr. Sanders began the 2020 race with the benefit of an enormous donor base that he developed in his primary campaign against Mrs. Clinton, when he raised well over $200 million. After jumping into the 2020 race on Feb. 19, he quickly reminded his rivals of his large following, collecting $5.9 million in the first 24 hours and a total of $10 million within a week. (Only Mr. O’Rourke disclosed a bigger 24-hour haul, with $6.1 million.) The Sanders campaign had set a goal of receiving one million donations by the end of the first quarter. The campaign fell short of that goal, but Mr. Shakir expressed no regret about having aimed for it. “It was important to us to set an ambitious goal,” he said. Mr. Sanders’s financial resources go beyond the money he has received since entering the presidential race. Like others running for president who have previously run for federal office, he can make use of funds that he had raised in earlier campaigns. He began the 2020 race with $14 million available for his use, Mr. Shakir said. Mr. Shakir said the new fund-raising total showed that the movement Mr. Sanders began in his 2016 campaign was still gaining steam. He noted that there had been questions from pundits about whether that would be the case: “Is this movement sustaining? Is it still there?” “The answer is a resounding yes,” he said. “It is still strong and it is still growing.” Follow Thomas Kaplan on Twitter: @thomaskaplan.    

Supported by By Thomas Kaplan WASHINGTON — Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont raised $18.2 million over the first six weeks of his presidential bid, his campaign announced Tuesday, a display of financial strength that cements his status as one of the top fund-raisers in the sprawling Democratic field. Mr. Sanders received almost 900,000 contributions from 525,000 individual donors, his campaign manager, Faiz Shakir, said. The average donation was $20, compared with $27 in Mr. Sanders’s 2016 presidential campaign, he said. Mr. Shakir said that a majority of Mr. Sanders’s donors were under the age of 39, and that 20 percent of all donors had not contributed to Mr. Sanders’s previous campaigns. He said that 88 percent of the total money raised came from donors giving $200 or less. Mr. Sanders’s announcement of his fund-raising for the first quarter of the year had been highly anticipated, as he was expected to reveal a sizable total. Presidential candidates must report their first-quarter fund-raising to the Federal Election Commission by April 15, but they can choose to disclose information before that deadline. The announcement on Tuesday offered a chance for Mr. Sanders’s team to showcase the breadth of support for his campaign. [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] His total for the quarter is the largest announced by a Democratic candidate so far, though most campaigns have not made their numbers public. Senator Kamala Harris of California raised $12 million in the first quarter, her campaign said on Monday. Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Ind., said on Monday that he had raised more than $7 million. Both candidates entered the race in January, several weeks before Mr. Sanders announced his candidacy. Andrew Yang, a New York businessman who is running on a platform that the United States should provide a universal basic income, said Tuesday that he had raised more than $1.7 million from over 80,000 donors — noteworthy figures for a political newcomer. His average donation was $17.92, he said, an amount even smaller than Mr. Sanders’s. Former Representative Beto O’Rourke of Texas, who entered the race in March and has been a prolific online fund-raiser, has yet to announce his haul for the quarter. The fund-raising totals are important beyond the symbolic value they carry for candidates who can point to large numbers of supporters. The Iowa caucuses are still 10 months away, meaning that Democratic candidates will need to be able to fund their campaigns for a long stretch of time just to make it to the first nominating contest. [Who’s in? Who’s out? Keep up with the 2020 field with our candidate tracker.] “There is zero question now that Bernie will be able to build a very strong and formidable campaign operation,” said Mo Elleithee, who was a spokesman for Hillary Clinton’s 2008 presidential campaign and is now the executive director of Georgetown University’s Institute of Politics and Public Service. But Mr. Elleithee said it remained to be seen whether Mr. Sanders’s backers would stick with him as time went on. “What will be interesting is: Is this sustainable as other candidates get better known?” he said. Mr. Sanders posted a bigger opening number than he did in the last presidential race, when he raised about $14 million in the quarter that covered April through June of 2015. Mr. Shakir said it took 146 days, or about 21 weeks, for Mr. Sanders to reach 900,000 donations in that campaign. But the amount raised by Mr. Sanders this quarter was not off the charts for a Democratic presidential hopeful. Mrs. Clinton raised about $47 million in her first quarter as a candidate in the 2016 campaign, though unlike Mr. Sanders, she relied heavily on big donations. Mr. Sanders began the 2020 race with the benefit of an enormous donor base that he developed in his primary campaign against Mrs. Clinton, when he raised well over $200 million. After jumping into the 2020 race on Feb. 19, he quickly reminded his rivals of his large following, collecting $5.9 million in the first 24 hours and a total of $10 million within a week. (Only Mr. O’Rourke disclosed a bigger 24-hour haul, with $6.1 million.) The Sanders campaign had set a goal of receiving one million donations by the end of the first quarter. The campaign fell short of that goal, but Mr. Shakir expressed no regret about having aimed for it. “It was important to us to set an ambitious goal,” he said. Mr. Sanders’s financial resources go beyond the money he has received since entering the presidential race. Like others running for president who have previously run for federal office, he can make use of funds that he had raised in earlier campaigns. He began the 2020 race with $14 million available for his use, Mr. Shakir said. Mr. Shakir said the new fund-raising total showed that the movement Mr. Sanders began in his 2016 campaign was still gaining steam. He noted that there had been questions from pundits about whether that would be the case: “Is this movement sustaining? Is it still there?” “The answer is a resounding yes,” he said. “It is still strong and it is still growing.” Follow Thomas Kaplan on Twitter: @thomaskaplan.    Supported by By Reuters BOSTON — A Massachusetts man was sentenced on Friday to five years of probation after admitting he mailed threatening letters filled with a suspicious white powder to several prominent people, including U.S. President Donald Trump's sons. Federal prosecutors in Boston had sought three years in prison for Daniel Frisiello, 25, of Beverly, Massachusetts, whose hoax letters included one in February 2018 addressed to Donald Trump Jr. Trump's then-wife, Vanessa, opened the letter and was taken to the hospital. Investigators later determined the powder sent to Trump's eldest son's home was harmless, as was the substance contained in an earlier letter Frisiello sent during the 2016 presidential campaign to the Republican president's son Eric Trump. U.S. District Court Judge Nathaniel Gorton in Boston sentenced Frisiello to five years of probation, with one year to be served in home detention with location monitoring, and restitution.  During the period of probation, Frisiello is prohibited from contacting victims in the case, sending letters through the mail, accessing the internet, and possessing and accessing computers.  He pleaded guilty in October to charges related to 13 threatening letters he mailed from 2015 to 2018, six of which contained a white powder.  U.S. authorities have been on alert for mail containing white powder since 2001, when envelopes laced with anthrax were sent to media outlets and U.S. lawmakers, killing five people. Other letters containing a white powder were mailed to Democratic U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow of Michigan and Antonio Sabato Jr, an actor who in 2018 was a Republican candidate in California for the U.S. House of Representatives.  Frisiello also sent threatening letters to prosecutors and police chiefs overseeing high-profile criminal cases he objected to and a Massachusetts company that fired one of his relatives, prosecutors said. The letter he sent to Trump Jr's address in Manhattan read in part, "You are an awful, awful person, I am surprised that your father lets you speak on TV," prosecutors said. Reviews of social media posts led prosecutors to view Frisiello as a suspect and a search of his trash revealed a computer printout referencing two of the people who received the threatening letters, prosecutors said. His lawyers sought five years of probation, saying in court papers that Frisiello had developmental delays and is autistic, facts that provide "context to understand the genesis of his crimes and to gauge the degree of his moral culpability."  (Reporting by Nate Raymond in Boston; Editing by Daniel Wallis and David Gregorio)

Supported by By Reuters BOSTON — A Massachusetts man was sentenced on Friday to five years of probation after admitting he mailed threatening letters filled with a suspicious white powder to several prominent people, including U.S. President Donald Trump's sons. Federal prosecutors in Boston had sought three years in prison for Daniel Frisiello, 25, of Beverly, Massachusetts, whose hoax letters included one in February 2018 addressed to Donald Trump Jr. Trump's then-wife, Vanessa, opened the letter and was taken to the hospital. Investigators later determined the powder sent to Trump's eldest son's home was harmless, as was the substance contained in an earlier letter Frisiello sent during the 2016 presidential campaign to the Republican president's son Eric Trump. U.S. District Court Judge Nathaniel Gorton in Boston sentenced Frisiello to five years of probation, with one year to be served in home detention with location monitoring, and restitution.  During the period of probation, Frisiello is prohibited from contacting victims in the case, sending letters through the mail, accessing the internet, and possessing and accessing computers.  He pleaded guilty in October to charges related to 13 threatening letters he mailed from 2015 to 2018, six of which contained a white powder.  U.S. authorities have been on alert for mail containing white powder since 2001, when envelopes laced with anthrax were sent to media outlets and U.S. lawmakers, killing five people. Other letters containing a white powder were mailed to Democratic U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow of Michigan and Antonio Sabato Jr, an actor who in 2018 was a Republican candidate in California for the U.S. House of Representatives.  Frisiello also sent threatening letters to prosecutors and police chiefs overseeing high-profile criminal cases he objected to and a Massachusetts company that fired one of his relatives, prosecutors said. The letter he sent to Trump Jr's address in Manhattan read in part, "You are an awful, awful person, I am surprised that your father lets you speak on TV," prosecutors said. Reviews of social media posts led prosecutors to view Frisiello as a suspect and a search of his trash revealed a computer printout referencing two of the people who received the threatening letters, prosecutors said. His lawyers sought five years of probation, saying in court papers that Frisiello had developmental delays and is autistic, facts that provide "context to understand the genesis of his crimes and to gauge the degree of his moral culpability."  (Reporting by Nate Raymond in Boston; Editing by Daniel Wallis and David Gregorio)Supported by NATIONAL An article on Sunday about a presidential campaign rally for Senator Cory Booker misidentified the year that the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. wrote “Letter From a Birmingham Jail.” It was 1963, not 1969. • An article on Monday about Pete Buttigieg’s official announcement to run for president misstated the number of veterans among the 2020 presidential candidates. Both Mr. Buttigieg and Representative Tulsi Gabbard are veterans; Mr. Buttigieg is not the only one. • An article on Friday about the Senate’s confirmation of David Bernhardt as secretary of the interior misspelled the given name of a Democratic senator who supported Mr. Berhardt’s nomination. She is Kyrsten Sinema, not Krysten. NEW YORK An article on Friday about a bill passed by the New York City Council that will bar marijuana drug tests for job applicants misspelled the last name of the City Council’s minority leader. He is Steven Matteo, not Mateo. It also misidentified the borough that Mr. Matteo represents. It is Staten Island, not Queens. SPORTS An article on Friday about the baseball player C.C. Sabathia’s final season misstated the year in which Aaron Boone had open-heart surgery. It was in 2009, not 2003. • An article on Sunday about the New York Islanders and the Pittsburgh Penguins’ captain Sidney Crosby misstated Crosby’s playoff history at PPG Paints Arena in Pittsburgh. He has played postseason games there every year except the 2010-11 season, not every year since his rookie season. ARTS An article on Monday about female directors in Hollywood misidentified the actress who will star in a “Shaft” sequel. She is Regina Hall, not Regina King. OPINION An Op-Ed essay on Monday about women’s status in Pakistan mischaracterized a member of the federal cabinet there. She is one of three female cabinet ministers; she is not the only one. OBITUARIES An obituary on Monday about the actress Bibi Andersson referred incorrectly to her role in the movie “The Passion of Anna.” She played a friend of the title character, a widow played by Liv Ullmann; she did not play the widow. Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions. To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com or call 1-844-NYT-NEWS (1-844-698-6397). Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com or faxed to (212) 556-3622. For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.

Supported by NATIONAL An article on Sunday about a presidential campaign rally for Senator Cory Booker misidentified the year that the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. wrote “Letter From a Birmingham Jail.” It was 1963, not 1969. • An article on Monday about Pete Buttigieg’s official announcement to run for president misstated the number of veterans among the 2020 presidential candidates. Both Mr. Buttigieg and Representative Tulsi Gabbard are veterans; Mr. Buttigieg is not the only one. • An article on Friday about the Senate’s confirmation of David Bernhardt as secretary of the interior misspelled the given name of a Democratic senator who supported Mr. Berhardt’s nomination. She is Kyrsten Sinema, not Krysten. NEW YORK An article on Friday about a bill passed by the New York City Council that will bar marijuana drug tests for job applicants misspelled the last name of the City Council’s minority leader. He is Steven Matteo, not Mateo. It also misidentified the borough that Mr. Matteo represents. It is Staten Island, not Queens. SPORTS An article on Friday about the baseball player C.C. Sabathia’s final season misstated the year in which Aaron Boone had open-heart surgery. It was in 2009, not 2003. • An article on Sunday about the New York Islanders and the Pittsburgh Penguins’ captain Sidney Crosby misstated Crosby’s playoff history at PPG Paints Arena in Pittsburgh. He has played postseason games there every year except the 2010-11 season, not every year since his rookie season. ARTS An article on Monday about female directors in Hollywood misidentified the actress who will star in a “Shaft” sequel. She is Regina Hall, not Regina King. OPINION An Op-Ed essay on Monday about women’s status in Pakistan mischaracterized a member of the federal cabinet there. She is one of three female cabinet ministers; she is not the only one. OBITUARIES An obituary on Monday about the actress Bibi Andersson referred incorrectly to her role in the movie “The Passion of Anna.” She played a friend of the title character, a widow played by Liv Ullmann; she did not play the widow. Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions. To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com or call 1-844-NYT-NEWS (1-844-698-6397). Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com or faxed to (212) 556-3622. For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.            Paul Manafort’s Trail of Scandals My Dead Dad’s Porno Tapes Ten Meter Tower Between Sound and Silence Coal Miner to Trump: “Coal Mining Isn’t Coming Back” House Tour | Cary Leibowitz Sanctuary City Hotline 2011: Arab Spring ‘Can The President Be Impeached?’ We Answer Your Questions Calving Season

            Paul Manafort’s Trail of Scandals My Dead Dad’s Porno Tapes Ten Meter Tower Between Sound and Silence Coal Miner to Trump: “Coal Mining Isn’t Coming Back” House Tour | Cary Leibowitz Sanctuary City Hotline 2011: Arab Spring ‘Can The President Be Impeached?’ We Answer Your Questions Calving SeasonSupported by White House Memo By Annie Karni WASHINGTON — The Democratic takeover of the House of Representatives was a blessing in disguise for a president who needed a foil, Republicans predicted last November. President Trump, who had only the press and the special counsel to battle with, they said, would find a useful antagonist in Speaker Nancy Pelosi. It hasn’t exactly turned out that way. After a series of misadventures, Mr. Trump has conspicuously laid off personal attacks aimed at Ms. Pelosi. Even as the standoff over funding a border wall appears to be finally ending with a deal seen as a defeat for the president, he has blamed unnamed Democrats but not their most prominent leader. And there has been no undermining Trumpian nickname — the president has said his moniker for Ms. Pelosi is, simply, “Nancy.” Mr. Trump, who once stalked Hillary Clinton, the former Democratic nominee, around the presidential debate stage and continues to encourage “lock her up” chants at his rallies more than two years later, simply gazed up at Ms. Pelosi during his State of the Union address — and then found himself the target of ridicule for the picture of her giving him what appeared to be a dismissive clap of the hands. “She has a unified Democratic caucus behind her, and she’s not intimidated,” said Representative Katherine M. Clark, Democrat of Massachusetts. “I don’t think that Donald Trump has run into that too often in his life, and he doesn’t know quite what to make of it all.” Without his anticipated punching bag, Mr. Trump has been left searching for an alternative, delivering haphazard attacks on Democrats as they announce their presidential campaigns, trial-and-error hits on an inchoate field of 2020 contenders. The question is whether a strategy of personal attacks that helped lift Mr. Trump to victory in 2016 will work when there’s no clear political opponent who rises above the rest. “Amy Klobuchar announced that she is running for President, talking proudly of fighting global warming while standing in a virtual blizzard of snow, ice and freezing temperatures,” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter on Sunday. “Bad timing. By the end of her speech she looked like a Snowman(woman)!” Giving it right back, Ms. Klobuchar responded, “I wonder how your hair would fare in a blizzard?” On Saturday, Mr. Trump officially welcomed Senator Elizabeth Warren to the presidential field, writing on Twitter: “Today Elizabeth Warren, sometimes referred to by me as Pocahontas, joined the race for President. Will she run as our first Native American presidential candidate, or has she decided that after 32 years, this is not playing so well anymore? See you on the campaign TRAIL, Liz!” At a rally in El Paso on Monday night, Mr. Trump attacked Beto O’Rourke, the former Texas congressman who is considering a presidential bid. “We were challenged by a young man who lost an election to Ted Cruz,” Mr. Trump said. “They said, ‘Hey, you’re supposed to win in order to run.’ By the way we — I — I’m one for one.” Democratic operatives predicted Mr. Trump’s attempts to personally demonize his political opponents won’t work when it’s not one on one. “He’s better with a foil, but unless he can hone in on one or two people, it ends up being less than the sum of its parts,” said Brian Fallon, a former press secretary for Mrs. Clinton’s 2016 presidential campaign. “If he’s scattershot weighing in on everyone who announces a presidential campaign, it’s not going to have the intended effect.” Mr. Trump’s allies disagree. “The Democratic field is both undefined and starting out with positions on the far left,” said Raj Shah, a former White House spokesman who is now advising Mr. Trump’s 2020 campaign. “Raising the profile of these out-of-touch positions and their controversies plays to the president’s advantage.” Some of Mr. Trump’s attacks appear to be doing just that. Ms. Warren, whom Mr. Trump has long viewed as an easy target, has apologized for identifying herself as Native American for two decades, essentially admitting that she did what Mr. Trump has accused her of: misrepresenting her race. Republican National Committee officials said they credited Mr. Trump with forcing the Native American issue back to the forefront. “The president reignited the conversation about her false Native American heritage claims last year, and she still can’t move past it,” said Ronna McDaniel, the committee’s chairwoman. But in general, his denigration of Democratic presidential candidates is not being guided by any field data from his campaign about who his most viable opponent is, and what the candidates’ biggest weaknesses are, according to a campaign operative. Trump officials said they viewed Senator Cory Booker, Senator Kamala Harris and Ms. Warren as the three most viable candidates, so far, to enter the race. But Mr. Trump has not landed on a strategy for diminishing Ms. Harris, and has praised her instead. “I would say, the best opening so far would be Kamala Harris,” Mr. Trump said in an interview with The New York Times last month. “Better crowd, better enthusiasm. Some of the others were very flat.” Meanwhile, he has weighed in on candidates considered second tier, as well as those who have yet to enter the race. Ms. Klobuchar’s snow-blanketed kickoff rally turned into a briefly viral moment that Mr. Trump simply couldn’t pass up, the operative said. His strikes against former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., who has yet to decide whether he will run, appear to be in the workshop phase. “When I say something that you might think is a gaffe, it’s on purpose; it’s not a gaffe,” Mr. Trump said at a recent off-the-record lunch with network anchors. “When Biden says something dumb, it’s because he’s dumb.” Rather than individuals, Mr. Trump’s campaign operatives, meanwhile, are hoping to elevate Democratic positions that seem out of step with the mainstream, like a 70 percent top tax rate, abolishing Immigration and Customs Enforcement and questioning American support for Israel. The only presidential tweet backed by political advice, they said, was Mr. Trump’s broadside against the “Green New Deal,” an ambitious Democratic proposal that seeks to combat climate change by calling for the United States to eliminate additional carbon emissions by 2030. Brad Parscale, Mr. Trump’s campaign manager, discussed the Green New Deal with Mr. Trump, an aide said, citing it as an example of a vulnerability for Democrats, and a way to brand them as “socialists.” “I think it is very important for the Democrats to press forward with their Green New Deal,” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter on Saturday. “It would be great for the so-called ‘Carbon Footprint’ to permanently eliminate all Planes, Cars, Cows, Oil, Gas & the Military — even if no other country would do the same. Brilliant!”   

Supported by White House Memo By Annie Karni WASHINGTON — The Democratic takeover of the House of Representatives was a blessing in disguise for a president who needed a foil, Republicans predicted last November. President Trump, who had only the press and the special counsel to battle with, they said, would find a useful antagonist in Speaker Nancy Pelosi. It hasn’t exactly turned out that way. After a series of misadventures, Mr. Trump has conspicuously laid off personal attacks aimed at Ms. Pelosi. Even as the standoff over funding a border wall appears to be finally ending with a deal seen as a defeat for the president, he has blamed unnamed Democrats but not their most prominent leader. And there has been no undermining Trumpian nickname — the president has said his moniker for Ms. Pelosi is, simply, “Nancy.” Mr. Trump, who once stalked Hillary Clinton, the former Democratic nominee, around the presidential debate stage and continues to encourage “lock her up” chants at his rallies more than two years later, simply gazed up at Ms. Pelosi during his State of the Union address — and then found himself the target of ridicule for the picture of her giving him what appeared to be a dismissive clap of the hands. “She has a unified Democratic caucus behind her, and she’s not intimidated,” said Representative Katherine M. Clark, Democrat of Massachusetts. “I don’t think that Donald Trump has run into that too often in his life, and he doesn’t know quite what to make of it all.” Without his anticipated punching bag, Mr. Trump has been left searching for an alternative, delivering haphazard attacks on Democrats as they announce their presidential campaigns, trial-and-error hits on an inchoate field of 2020 contenders. The question is whether a strategy of personal attacks that helped lift Mr. Trump to victory in 2016 will work when there’s no clear political opponent who rises above the rest. “Amy Klobuchar announced that she is running for President, talking proudly of fighting global warming while standing in a virtual blizzard of snow, ice and freezing temperatures,” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter on Sunday. “Bad timing. By the end of her speech she looked like a Snowman(woman)!” Giving it right back, Ms. Klobuchar responded, “I wonder how your hair would fare in a blizzard?” On Saturday, Mr. Trump officially welcomed Senator Elizabeth Warren to the presidential field, writing on Twitter: “Today Elizabeth Warren, sometimes referred to by me as Pocahontas, joined the race for President. Will she run as our first Native American presidential candidate, or has she decided that after 32 years, this is not playing so well anymore? See you on the campaign TRAIL, Liz!” At a rally in El Paso on Monday night, Mr. Trump attacked Beto O’Rourke, the former Texas congressman who is considering a presidential bid. “We were challenged by a young man who lost an election to Ted Cruz,” Mr. Trump said. “They said, ‘Hey, you’re supposed to win in order to run.’ By the way we — I — I’m one for one.” Democratic operatives predicted Mr. Trump’s attempts to personally demonize his political opponents won’t work when it’s not one on one. “He’s better with a foil, but unless he can hone in on one or two people, it ends up being less than the sum of its parts,” said Brian Fallon, a former press secretary for Mrs. Clinton’s 2016 presidential campaign. “If he’s scattershot weighing in on everyone who announces a presidential campaign, it’s not going to have the intended effect.” Mr. Trump’s allies disagree. “The Democratic field is both undefined and starting out with positions on the far left,” said Raj Shah, a former White House spokesman who is now advising Mr. Trump’s 2020 campaign. “Raising the profile of these out-of-touch positions and their controversies plays to the president’s advantage.” Some of Mr. Trump’s attacks appear to be doing just that. Ms. Warren, whom Mr. Trump has long viewed as an easy target, has apologized for identifying herself as Native American for two decades, essentially admitting that she did what Mr. Trump has accused her of: misrepresenting her race. Republican National Committee officials said they credited Mr. Trump with forcing the Native American issue back to the forefront. “The president reignited the conversation about her false Native American heritage claims last year, and she still can’t move past it,” said Ronna McDaniel, the committee’s chairwoman. But in general, his denigration of Democratic presidential candidates is not being guided by any field data from his campaign about who his most viable opponent is, and what the candidates’ biggest weaknesses are, according to a campaign operative. Trump officials said they viewed Senator Cory Booker, Senator Kamala Harris and Ms. Warren as the three most viable candidates, so far, to enter the race. But Mr. Trump has not landed on a strategy for diminishing Ms. Harris, and has praised her instead. “I would say, the best opening so far would be Kamala Harris,” Mr. Trump said in an interview with The New York Times last month. “Better crowd, better enthusiasm. Some of the others were very flat.” Meanwhile, he has weighed in on candidates considered second tier, as well as those who have yet to enter the race. Ms. Klobuchar’s snow-blanketed kickoff rally turned into a briefly viral moment that Mr. Trump simply couldn’t pass up, the operative said. His strikes against former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., who has yet to decide whether he will run, appear to be in the workshop phase. “When I say something that you might think is a gaffe, it’s on purpose; it’s not a gaffe,” Mr. Trump said at a recent off-the-record lunch with network anchors. “When Biden says something dumb, it’s because he’s dumb.” Rather than individuals, Mr. Trump’s campaign operatives, meanwhile, are hoping to elevate Democratic positions that seem out of step with the mainstream, like a 70 percent top tax rate, abolishing Immigration and Customs Enforcement and questioning American support for Israel. The only presidential tweet backed by political advice, they said, was Mr. Trump’s broadside against the “Green New Deal,” an ambitious Democratic proposal that seeks to combat climate change by calling for the United States to eliminate additional carbon emissions by 2030. Brad Parscale, Mr. Trump’s campaign manager, discussed the Green New Deal with Mr. Trump, an aide said, citing it as an example of a vulnerability for Democrats, and a way to brand them as “socialists.” “I think it is very important for the Democrats to press forward with their Green New Deal,” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter on Saturday. “It would be great for the so-called ‘Carbon Footprint’ to permanently eliminate all Planes, Cars, Cows, Oil, Gas & the Military — even if no other country would do the same. Brilliant!”   Supported by By The Associated Press BALTIMORE — Democratic presidential candidate Kamala Harris has released 15 years of tax returns, including her returns for 2018, and the California senator reports that she and her husband had a federal tax bill of about $700,000 on an adjusted gross joint income of about $1.9 million last year. The documents released Sunday provide the fullest picture of her finances as she pursues a White House bid. Harris reported an income of about $157,000 in 2018 from her job as a senator, as well as about $320,000 in net income as a writer; a book she wrote was published earlier this year. Her husband, Doug Emhoff, earned about $1.5 million working as an attorney. Harris is the latest Democratic presidential contender to release her taxes. President Donald Trump has continued to refuse to release his since the 2016 presidential campaign, when he became the first nominee in decades to buck the tradition of disclosure. House Democrats are pressing for access to Trump's tax returns, which would give lawmakers far greater insight into the president's business dealings and potential conflicts of interest, as they exercise their oversight role. Harris and her husband reporting giving a small portion of their income — often about 1% to 3% a year — to charitable causes. Harris reported no charitable contributions some years when she was California's attorney general. The Democrats who are running for president in 2020 have released their tax returns to varying degrees. Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand of New York released her 2018 tax return in late March and urged her colleagues to do the same. She was the first Democratic candidate to do so. Gillibrand has released her returns annually since 2012. That year, she released her returns dating back to 2007. Sen. Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts released a decade of her tax returns, as well as her 2018 returns. Minnesota Sen. Amy Klobuchar this month released 12 years of tax returns, dating to 2006, when she first became a candidate for federal office. Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders, who released just one year of tax returns when he ran for president in 2016, said more than a month ago that he would release a decade's worth of returns. He and his campaign have said they will release his tax returns by Monday's tax filing deadline. ___ Suderman reported from Richmond, Virginia, and Braun from Washington.

Supported by By The Associated Press BALTIMORE — Democratic presidential candidate Kamala Harris has released 15 years of tax returns, including her returns for 2018, and the California senator reports that she and her husband had a federal tax bill of about $700,000 on an adjusted gross joint income of about $1.9 million last year. The documents released Sunday provide the fullest picture of her finances as she pursues a White House bid. Harris reported an income of about $157,000 in 2018 from her job as a senator, as well as about $320,000 in net income as a writer; a book she wrote was published earlier this year. Her husband, Doug Emhoff, earned about $1.5 million working as an attorney. Harris is the latest Democratic presidential contender to release her taxes. President Donald Trump has continued to refuse to release his since the 2016 presidential campaign, when he became the first nominee in decades to buck the tradition of disclosure. House Democrats are pressing for access to Trump's tax returns, which would give lawmakers far greater insight into the president's business dealings and potential conflicts of interest, as they exercise their oversight role. Harris and her husband reporting giving a small portion of their income — often about 1% to 3% a year — to charitable causes. Harris reported no charitable contributions some years when she was California's attorney general. The Democrats who are running for president in 2020 have released their tax returns to varying degrees. Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand of New York released her 2018 tax return in late March and urged her colleagues to do the same. She was the first Democratic candidate to do so. Gillibrand has released her returns annually since 2012. That year, she released her returns dating back to 2007. Sen. Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts released a decade of her tax returns, as well as her 2018 returns. Minnesota Sen. Amy Klobuchar this month released 12 years of tax returns, dating to 2006, when she first became a candidate for federal office. Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders, who released just one year of tax returns when he ran for president in 2016, said more than a month ago that he would release a decade's worth of returns. He and his campaign have said they will release his tax returns by Monday's tax filing deadline. ___ Suderman reported from Richmond, Virginia, and Braun from Washington.Supported by By The Associated Press Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about today: 1. WHO'S CHANGING HIS TUNE ON WIKILEAKS President Donald Trump declares "I know nothing about WikiLeaks" after its founder Julian Assange was hauled out of the Ecuadorian Embassy in London to face charges, a stark contrast to how candidate Trump showered praise on the hacking organization during his 2016 presidential campaign. 2. WIKILEAKS' STATUS IN THE MEDIA WORLD COMPLEX Assange's arrest reignites a debate with no easy answer: Is the former computer hacker and founder of WikiLeaks a journalist or not? 3. INSIDE BUTTIGIEG'S 'COMPLICATED' RELATIONSHIP WITH PENCE Openly gay South Bend, Indiana, Mayor Pete Buttigieg became a celebrated voice for LGBT equality, and as a Democratic presidential contender his rhetoric toward Vice President Mike Pence has hardened. 4. HOUSE DEMOCRATS MARK FIRST 100 DAYS Democratic freshmen lawmakers are taking stock of their accomplishments, noting the stumbles and marking their place as a front line of resistance to Trump. 5. MEMORIAL SPOTLIGHTS MAN BEHIND NIPSEY HUSSLE RAP PERSONA For a decade, Nipsey Hussle released much sought-after mixtapes that he sold out of the trunk of his car, helping him create a buzz and gain respect from rap purists and his peers. 6. HOW S. KOREAN BABIES BORN DEC. 31 BECOME 2-YEAR-OLDS THE NEXT DAY South Korean babies become 1 on the day of their birth and then get an additional year tacked on when the calendar hits Jan. 1. 7. EX-OBAMA WHITE HOUSE COUNSEL CHARGED IN LOBBYING PROBE Former Obama White House counsel Greg Craig has been indicted on charges of making false statements and concealing information in a federal foreign lobbying investigation that intersected with the Russia probe. 8. TALIBAN DECLARES START OF SPRING OFFENSIVE The Taliban announced the start of their spring offensive despite talking peace with the United States. 9. ALABAMA HALTS EXECUTION OF MAN WHO KILLED PASTOR  An Alabama inmate convicted in the 1991 sword-and-dagger slaying of a pastor was spared from a scheduled lethal injection after the state was unable to lift a last-minute stay. 10. DECHAMBEAU, KOEPKA SHARE LEAD AT THE MASTERS Bryson DeChambeau and Brooks Koepka each shot a 6-under 66 in the opening round.

Supported by By The Associated Press Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about today: 1. WHO'S CHANGING HIS TUNE ON WIKILEAKS President Donald Trump declares "I know nothing about WikiLeaks" after its founder Julian Assange was hauled out of the Ecuadorian Embassy in London to face charges, a stark contrast to how candidate Trump showered praise on the hacking organization during his 2016 presidential campaign. 2. WIKILEAKS' STATUS IN THE MEDIA WORLD COMPLEX Assange's arrest reignites a debate with no easy answer: Is the former computer hacker and founder of WikiLeaks a journalist or not? 3. INSIDE BUTTIGIEG'S 'COMPLICATED' RELATIONSHIP WITH PENCE Openly gay South Bend, Indiana, Mayor Pete Buttigieg became a celebrated voice for LGBT equality, and as a Democratic presidential contender his rhetoric toward Vice President Mike Pence has hardened. 4. HOUSE DEMOCRATS MARK FIRST 100 DAYS Democratic freshmen lawmakers are taking stock of their accomplishments, noting the stumbles and marking their place as a front line of resistance to Trump. 5. MEMORIAL SPOTLIGHTS MAN BEHIND NIPSEY HUSSLE RAP PERSONA For a decade, Nipsey Hussle released much sought-after mixtapes that he sold out of the trunk of his car, helping him create a buzz and gain respect from rap purists and his peers. 6. HOW S. KOREAN BABIES BORN DEC. 31 BECOME 2-YEAR-OLDS THE NEXT DAY South Korean babies become 1 on the day of their birth and then get an additional year tacked on when the calendar hits Jan. 1. 7. EX-OBAMA WHITE HOUSE COUNSEL CHARGED IN LOBBYING PROBE Former Obama White House counsel Greg Craig has been indicted on charges of making false statements and concealing information in a federal foreign lobbying investigation that intersected with the Russia probe. 8. TALIBAN DECLARES START OF SPRING OFFENSIVE The Taliban announced the start of their spring offensive despite talking peace with the United States. 9. ALABAMA HALTS EXECUTION OF MAN WHO KILLED PASTOR  An Alabama inmate convicted in the 1991 sword-and-dagger slaying of a pastor was spared from a scheduled lethal injection after the state was unable to lift a last-minute stay. 10. DECHAMBEAU, KOEPKA SHARE LEAD AT THE MASTERS Bryson DeChambeau and Brooks Koepka each shot a 6-under 66 in the opening round.Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — U.S. Senator Elizabeth Warren's presidential campaign raised $6 million in the first quarter of 2019, lagging behind Democratic rivals after swearing off expensive fundraising events, her campaign said on Wednesday. Warren, who had a full three months to fundraise, trails Senators Bernie Sanders, who raised $18 million in six weeks, and Kamala Harris, who raised $12 million in about two months. Warren's campaign in an email sent on Wednesday afternoon to supporters acknowledged that she is behind other well-known Democrats, but argued she enjoys grassroots support.  "We don't have to match other candidates dollar for dollar, but we do need a strong enough grassroots base to be able to keep Elizabeth’s voice front and center in this race," Roger Lau, Warren's campaign manager, said in the email to supporters. The Massachusetts senator announced in February that she would no longer attend expensive fundraising events like dinners and receptions, which may have contributed to her being outraised by some of her rivals. Candidates traditionally use fundraisers to collect large donation checks.  Her campaign said the average donation was $28.  Candidates are required by law to track and report all campaign donations. Donations collected between Jan. 1 and March 31 must be disclosed by April 15. Candidates are limited to collecting $2,800 from a single donor during the primary process.  The April fundraising deadline is one of the first big tests for the more than 15 Democrats vying for their party's nomination to challenge Republican President Donald Trump in the 2020 election. Also out-pacing Warren was Beto O’Rourke, the former U.S congressman from Texas who raised $9.4 million in the first 18 days, his campaign said.  Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Indiana, who recently saw a bump in opinion polls but is still considered a long-shot, announced last week that he had raised $7 million during the first quarter.  Warren raised more than two other members of the Senate vying for the nomination. Amy Klobuchar and Cory Booker each raised about $5 million. Fundraising is an early way to prove to donors and potential supporters that a candidate is viable.  Grassroots fundraising is also one of the qualifying criteria for the Democratic primary debates. Candidates can qualify if they have 65,000 unique donors, along with a minimum of 200 donors per state in at least 20 states. Warren's campaign said her donations came from 135,000 individuals.   (Reporting by Ginger Gibson; Editing by Bill Berkrot)

Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — U.S. Senator Elizabeth Warren's presidential campaign raised $6 million in the first quarter of 2019, lagging behind Democratic rivals after swearing off expensive fundraising events, her campaign said on Wednesday. Warren, who had a full three months to fundraise, trails Senators Bernie Sanders, who raised $18 million in six weeks, and Kamala Harris, who raised $12 million in about two months. Warren's campaign in an email sent on Wednesday afternoon to supporters acknowledged that she is behind other well-known Democrats, but argued she enjoys grassroots support.  "We don't have to match other candidates dollar for dollar, but we do need a strong enough grassroots base to be able to keep Elizabeth’s voice front and center in this race," Roger Lau, Warren's campaign manager, said in the email to supporters. The Massachusetts senator announced in February that she would no longer attend expensive fundraising events like dinners and receptions, which may have contributed to her being outraised by some of her rivals. Candidates traditionally use fundraisers to collect large donation checks.  Her campaign said the average donation was $28.  Candidates are required by law to track and report all campaign donations. Donations collected between Jan. 1 and March 31 must be disclosed by April 15. Candidates are limited to collecting $2,800 from a single donor during the primary process.  The April fundraising deadline is one of the first big tests for the more than 15 Democrats vying for their party's nomination to challenge Republican President Donald Trump in the 2020 election. Also out-pacing Warren was Beto O’Rourke, the former U.S congressman from Texas who raised $9.4 million in the first 18 days, his campaign said.  Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Indiana, who recently saw a bump in opinion polls but is still considered a long-shot, announced last week that he had raised $7 million during the first quarter.  Warren raised more than two other members of the Senate vying for the nomination. Amy Klobuchar and Cory Booker each raised about $5 million. Fundraising is an early way to prove to donors and potential supporters that a candidate is viable.  Grassroots fundraising is also one of the qualifying criteria for the Democratic primary debates. Candidates can qualify if they have 65,000 unique donors, along with a minimum of 200 donors per state in at least 20 states. Warren's campaign said her donations came from 135,000 individuals.   (Reporting by Ginger Gibson; Editing by Bill Berkrot)Supported by By Choe Sang-Hun SEOUL, South Korea — A close political ally of President Moon Jae-in of South Korea was sentenced to two years in prison on Wednesday for conspiring with bloggers to illegally influence public opinion before Mr. Moon’s election in 2017. The politician, Gov. Kim Kyoung-soo of South Gyeongsang Province in the country’s southeast, was taken to prison shortly after Seoul Central District Court convicted and sentenced him on Wednesday. No evidence has emerged that Mr. Moon was aware of Mr. Kim’s activities. But the verdict is a political setback for the president, for whom Mr. Kim was a key adviser during the 2017 presidential campaign, in which Mr. Moon ran as a champion of clean politics. Mr. Kim was accused of working with a blogger named Kim Dong-won, known widely by his alias, Druking, to sway online opinion in favor of Mr. Moon, both before and after the election. In an indictment last year, prosecutors said a team led by the blogger had used special software to post 1.4 million comments, aimed at promoting Mr. Moon and his policies, on articles on domestic news sites between December 2016 and March 2018. The bloggers also generated 99.7 million “likes” and “dislikes” for the articles, according to prosecutors. By doing so, prosecutors said, those involved in the scheme violated laws that prohibit secret online influence campaigns before an election. Judge Sung Chang-ho said there was enough evidence to prove that Mr. Kim, the governor, had collaborated with Kim Dong-won. He personally visited the blogger’s office in late 2016 and endorsed his operation after watching him demonstrate the software, and he promised to help one of the blogger’s associates get a job in Mr. Moon’s government, the judge said. “The crime of the accused lies not just in obstructing the business of internet portal sites, but also in attempting to distort public opinion by seriously damaging the function of online space to formulate them in a transparent manner,” Judge Sung said. Prosecutors said the alliance fell apart early last year, after the governor failed to deliver the promised government job. The blogger then turned his operation against the Moon administration, prosecutors said. Mr. Moon’s party sued the blogger, accusing him of introducing an illegal smear campaign — but the subsequent investigation revealed his earlier activities on Mr. Moon’s behalf. Mr. Kim, the governor, who has denied the charges against him, said after his sentencing that he would appeal. “I will fight to the end,” he told reporters. Mr. Moon’s office said the verdict was “completely unexpected.” Kim Dong-wan, the blogger, who was tried separately, was also convicted on Wednesday. He was sentenced to three and a half years in prison. The case has ironic echoes of the 2017 conviction of Won Sei-hoon, former director of South Korea’s main spy agency, the National Intelligence Service. He was sentenced to four years in prison for running a clandestine online operation to promote Park Geun-hye’s presidential campaign in 2012, which Ms. Park won. A court found that Mr. Won had directed a secret team at the spy agency to work with private bloggers to smear Ms. Park’s political rivals, including Mr. Moon. Mr. Moon vehemently denounced the spy agency’s meddling in domestic politics. He won the snap presidential election called in 2017 after Ms. Park was impeached and removed from office, and after becoming president he sharply curtailed the spy agency’s ability to operate domestically in areas not related to counterintelligence. Mr. Kim’s conviction comes as Mr. Moon is trying to shore up his popularity. His approval ratings, which surpassed 80 percent last year as he engaged in diplomacy with North Korea, have fallen below 50 percent, with the economy sputtering and talks between the North and the United States having shown little progress. The sentencing of Mr. Moon’s adviser is likely to provide new ammunition for critics of the president, most of them older conservatives skeptical of his North Korea diplomacy. Anti-government rallies in Seoul organized by conservatives have been growing.  

Supported by By Choe Sang-Hun SEOUL, South Korea — A close political ally of President Moon Jae-in of South Korea was sentenced to two years in prison on Wednesday for conspiring with bloggers to illegally influence public opinion before Mr. Moon’s election in 2017. The politician, Gov. Kim Kyoung-soo of South Gyeongsang Province in the country’s southeast, was taken to prison shortly after Seoul Central District Court convicted and sentenced him on Wednesday. No evidence has emerged that Mr. Moon was aware of Mr. Kim’s activities. But the verdict is a political setback for the president, for whom Mr. Kim was a key adviser during the 2017 presidential campaign, in which Mr. Moon ran as a champion of clean politics. Mr. Kim was accused of working with a blogger named Kim Dong-won, known widely by his alias, Druking, to sway online opinion in favor of Mr. Moon, both before and after the election. In an indictment last year, prosecutors said a team led by the blogger had used special software to post 1.4 million comments, aimed at promoting Mr. Moon and his policies, on articles on domestic news sites between December 2016 and March 2018. The bloggers also generated 99.7 million “likes” and “dislikes” for the articles, according to prosecutors. By doing so, prosecutors said, those involved in the scheme violated laws that prohibit secret online influence campaigns before an election. Judge Sung Chang-ho said there was enough evidence to prove that Mr. Kim, the governor, had collaborated with Kim Dong-won. He personally visited the blogger’s office in late 2016 and endorsed his operation after watching him demonstrate the software, and he promised to help one of the blogger’s associates get a job in Mr. Moon’s government, the judge said. “The crime of the accused lies not just in obstructing the business of internet portal sites, but also in attempting to distort public opinion by seriously damaging the function of online space to formulate them in a transparent manner,” Judge Sung said. Prosecutors said the alliance fell apart early last year, after the governor failed to deliver the promised government job. The blogger then turned his operation against the Moon administration, prosecutors said. Mr. Moon’s party sued the blogger, accusing him of introducing an illegal smear campaign — but the subsequent investigation revealed his earlier activities on Mr. Moon’s behalf. Mr. Kim, the governor, who has denied the charges against him, said after his sentencing that he would appeal. “I will fight to the end,” he told reporters. Mr. Moon’s office said the verdict was “completely unexpected.” Kim Dong-wan, the blogger, who was tried separately, was also convicted on Wednesday. He was sentenced to three and a half years in prison. The case has ironic echoes of the 2017 conviction of Won Sei-hoon, former director of South Korea’s main spy agency, the National Intelligence Service. He was sentenced to four years in prison for running a clandestine online operation to promote Park Geun-hye’s presidential campaign in 2012, which Ms. Park won. A court found that Mr. Won had directed a secret team at the spy agency to work with private bloggers to smear Ms. Park’s political rivals, including Mr. Moon. Mr. Moon vehemently denounced the spy agency’s meddling in domestic politics. He won the snap presidential election called in 2017 after Ms. Park was impeached and removed from office, and after becoming president he sharply curtailed the spy agency’s ability to operate domestically in areas not related to counterintelligence. Mr. Kim’s conviction comes as Mr. Moon is trying to shore up his popularity. His approval ratings, which surpassed 80 percent last year as he engaged in diplomacy with North Korea, have fallen below 50 percent, with the economy sputtering and talks between the North and the United States having shown little progress. The sentencing of Mr. Moon’s adviser is likely to provide new ammunition for critics of the president, most of them older conservatives skeptical of his North Korea diplomacy. Anti-government rallies in Seoul organized by conservatives have been growing.  Supported by The Democratic electorate has shifted sharply to the left, taking many politicians along with it — willingly and unwillingly.  By Thomas B. Edsall Mr. Edsall contributes a weekly column from Washington, D.C. on politics, demographics and inequality. The most active wing of the Democratic Party — the roughly 20 percent of the party’s electorate that votes in primaries and wields disproportionate influence over which issues get prioritized — has moved decisively to the left. With all the attention that is being paid to Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Ayanna Pressley, Rashida Tlaib and other new progressive voices in Congress, this may not seem like news, but we are only just beginning to realize the full significance of this shift. The Primaries Project at the Brookings Institution conducted extensive polling of 7,198 Democratic voters in the 2018 primaries and found that 60.4 percent described themselves as liberal, including 26.4 percent who said they were “very liberal.” In its most recent analysis, Gallup found that from 1994 to 2018, the percentage of all Democrats who call themselves liberal more than doubled from 25 percent to 51 percent. Over the same period, the percentage of Democratic moderates and conservatives fell steadily, with the share of moderates dropping from 48 to 34 percent, and of conservatives dropping from 25 to 13 percent. These trends began to accelerate during the administration of George W. Bush and have continued unabated during the Obama and Trump presidencies. In recent years, the internal pressures to hew to the left, driven largely by Democratic primary voters, have steadily gained strength. They include the determination to oppose all things Trump, especially his anti-immigrant policies, his racism and his religious bigotry; the rise of outspoken, well-educated liberals, many of them young; the #MeToo movement and Trump’s disrespect for women; the Occupy movement; the mobilization of anti-establishment voters by Bernie Sanders during the 2016 primaries; and the consistent exodus of more conservative white voters from the Democratic Party, supplanted by more politically liberal minority voters. The anti-establishment faction contributed significantly to the large turnout increases in Democratic primaries last year. Pew found that from 2014 to 2018, turnout in House primaries rose from 13.7 to 19.6 percent of all registered Democrats, in Senate primaries from 16.6 to 22.2 percent and in governor primaries from 17.1 to 24.5 percent. Isabel Sawhill, a senior fellow at Brookings, agrees with the analysis that core voters and activist leaders within the party are “moving leftward”: Medicare for All, free college, a universal jobs guarantee, a $15 minimum wage, an expansion of the EITC to the entire bottom half, workers on boards of directors, ending ICE, raising marginal tax rates to 70 percent are all big, bold leftist ideas and appear to be gaining currency. These “big, bold leftist ideas” pose a strategic problem for liberals and the Democratic Party, Sawhill, who published “The Forgotten Americans: An Economic Agenda for a Divided Nation” last year, wrote in an email: In my view, it’s a trade-off between exciting the base thereby insuring higher turnout vs. broadening the base to include independents and Republicans that don’t like Trump. Sawhill argues that if the goal of Democrats is victory, as opposed to ideological purity, they must focus on general election swing voters who are not die-hard Democrats. One key Democratic target, Sawhill observes, is the “well-educated, suburban women, many of them Republican, who voted for Democrats in the midterms.” Once Trump is gone, she continued, “they could easily return to their natural home in the Republican Party.” “Over the longer-term,” Sawhill continued, as millennials and minorities become an ever-larger proportion of the party, it will have a natural constituency that supports a new and bolder agenda, but the concentration of those voters in urban areas that are underrepresented in our electoral system will be a continuing drag on the party’s prospects. The extensive support among prospective Democratic presidential candidates for Medicare for All, government-guaranteed jobs and a higher minimum wage reflects the widespread desire in the electorate for greater protection from the vicissitudes of market capitalism — in response to “increasingly incomplete risk protection in an era of dramatic social change,” as the political scientist Jacob Hacker put it in “Privatizing Risk without Privatizing the Welfare State: The Hidden Politics of Social Policy Retrenchment in the United States.” Support for such protections is showing signs of becoming a litmus test for candidates running in the 2020 Democratic presidential primaries. Polling by the Pew Research Center shows sharp movement in a progressive direction on key issues among many Democrats. Take liberalized attitudes on immigration as an example. From 2008 to 2018, the percentage of Democrats who said the government should create “a way for immigrants already here illegally to become citizens if the meet certain requirements” grew from 29 to 51 percent, while the share who said “there should be better border security and stronger enforcement of immigration laws” fell from 21 to 5 percent. Similarly, the percentage of Democrats who agreed with the statement that “racial discrimination is the main reason many blacks can’t get ahead these days” rose from 28 to 64 percent from 2010 to 2017. Paul Starr, a sociology professor at Princeton, warns against putting too much stock in the ascendance of progressive Democrats. In an essay in the American Prospect, Starr argues that there were “two distinct developments” in the 2018 elections: While progressives have gained ground in long-held Democratic areas, more centrist candidates have won the more competitive districts. This second development will limit how far to the left the party can go. The more the party expands into the suburbs, the more dependent it will be on those relatively centrist votes — and that dependence will become a constraint on the policies that Democrats are able to agree on. In addition, while acknowledging the rise of the progressive wing, Starr pointed out that a separate December 2018 Gallup survey found that 54 percent of Democratic voters would prefer their party to become “more moderate,” while 41 percent said they would like the party to become “more liberal.” Along similarly cautionary lines, David Graham wrote in the Atlantic last November: There’s clear leftward movement among Democratic voters on a range of issues, and there are more progressive candidates running than ever. But this doesn’t amount, at least yet, to the socialist groundswell that advocates pine for and critics fear. The actual policy positions, and number of leftist officeholders, will remain limited — at least for now. What happens in 2020 could be more telling. Graham’s conclusion: The Democratic Party is moving left, but it might not be clear quite how far left for two or even six years. The revolution is coming more slowly than its champions hope and its critics fear. Matt Grossmann, a political scientist at Michigan State, noted in an email that the leftward movement is across the board on policy, ideological identification, and values, but remains furthest left on specific policy. The public movement seems to be strongest on race and gender issues as well as any proposal tied to Trump. Women, according to Grossmann, “are becoming a bigger part of the Democratic electorate and more supportive of women primary candidates.” The 2018 primary elections revealed the deepening strength of an anti-establishment insurgent faction, largely young, white and minority urban voters who turned out in droves in Democratic primaries from Omaha to Tallahassee and from the Bronx to Boston. Michael Capuano, a former mayor of Somerville, Mass. and a ten-term member of the House, learned the hard way how much the Democratic electorate has changed. As mayor in the 1990s, Capuano presided over the gentrification of the once scruffy, working class town. Initially, the city was grateful. When Capuano first won election to Congress in 1998, he owed his victory in the 10-candidate Democratic primary to his hometown. He carried Somerville with 7,852 votes, more than the total vote for all nine opponents, 6,253, while losing to other candidates in Boston, Belmont, Cambridge, Chelsea and Watertown. The impact of gentrification is striking. By 2017, 61.2 percent of Somerville’s residents 25 or older had at least a bachelor’s degree, compared with 30.9 percent nationwide. The median household income was $84,722, compared with $57,652 nationally. Somerville had moved from downscale to upscale, not to the level of Brattle Street in Cambridge or Boston’s Beacon Hill, but still many steps up the ladder. In the process, Somerville left Capuano, a white working class Democrat in the mold of Tip O’Neill, behind. In 2018, twenty years after first winning his House seat, Capuano could no longer count on Somerville. Despite his deep roots — his father had been mayor before him — the vote there was a wash. Capuano received 8,423 to 8,286 for his opponent, Ayanna Pressley, an African-American Boston city councilwomen. Pressley swept Cambridge and Boston to crush Capuano, 60,046 to 42,430 districtwide. The same pattern emerged in the widely publicized defeat of Joe Crowley, another 10-term incumbent, by Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez in the Democratic primary in a House district that straddles the Bronx and Queens. Steven Romalewski, who runs the mapping service at the CUNY Center for Urban Research, wrote me by email that “Ocasio-Cortez did best in areas such as Astoria/Steinway and Sunnyside, which happen to be more white than other parts of the district,” a point he elaborated upon in a story quoting him posted on The Intercept: You can also see that most of her votes, the strongest vote support, came from areas like Astoria in Queens and Sunnyside in Queens and parts of Jackson Heights that, number one, were not predominantly Hispanic, so they’re a more mixed population, and are areas where — this is kind of a term of art — are in the process of being gentrified, where newer people are moving in, Grace Segers, writing in July on the City & State website, noted that Crowley  fell victim to gentrification and that force may upend expectations in Democratic primaries throughout Manhattan and western Brooklyn and Queens. And the rise of younger voters who are newer to their districts and unattached to incumbents could power insurgent candidates throughout New York City. David Freedlander, writing in Politico Magazine, captured the unanticipated voting patterns that gave rise to Crowley’s defeat. “Ocasio-Cortez’s best precincts,” Freedlander wrote, were  highly educated, whiter and richer than the district as a whole. In those neighborhoods, Ocasio-Cortez clobbered Crowley by 70 percent or more. Conversely, Crowley did best in “the working-class African-American enclave of LeFrak City, where he got more than 60 percent of the vote.” In fact, Crowley pulled some of his best numbers in Ocasio-Cortez’s heavily Latino and African-American neighborhood of Parkchester, in the Bronx — beating her by more than 25 points on her home turf. Jerry Skurnik, a New York political consultant, describes gentrifying communities outside Manhattan as experiencing an influx of “people who really want to live in Greenwich Village but can’t afford to.” This younger, well-educated constituency — predominately but not exclusively white — is hostile to cautious establishment Democrats, especially to older white men, and they are determined to engineer an intraparty cultural and ideological insurgency. The emergence in force in 2018 of these insurgent Democrats grows in part out of the Sanders presidential campaign. Sanders mobilized millions of voters, many of whom did not want the Democrats to nominate a candidate with deep ties to party regulars and to the major donor community. Maps of primary voting patterns in 2016 and 2018 produced by CUNY’s Graduate School of Journalism and the Center for Urban Research show that Sanders beat Clinton in just a handful of New York City neighborhoods. Many of those Sanders neighborhoods are in Ocasio-Cortez’s district and they are the communities that provided her biggest margins of victory. Sanders also carried Somerville in 2016, 12,247 to 9,016, where support for Capuano imploded two years later. If the turnout patterns in the Ocasio-Cortez and Pressley districts are even modestly predictive, the Democratic Party may be changing in significant ways. Tom Kiley, who conducted polling for Capuano, described in an email the shifting makeup of the Democratic electorate in the Seventh District of Massachusetts: Mike did best among older, white, non-college educated Democrats who, for the most part, still described themselves as liberals or moderate liberals. Pressley’s base, Kiley wrote,  was overwhelmingly made up of liberal, college-educated, white voters, especially those under 45 who did not have a history of voting in off-year elections. We were expecting what we considered a robust turnout of 75,000 for the day after Labor Day. In fact it ballooned to over 100,000, largely on the strength of this younger white cohort. While the Boston-Cambridge-Somerville district is far more liberal than the national average, Kiley argued that trends there are likely to be replicated in many regions of the country. “These new voters will have a major impact in the Democratic nomination process in many states,” he wrote: The desire for change in general is huge, and Trump is a powerful accelerant. I have to believe these new voters aren’t going to just retreat after electing new members of Congress; they’ll come out in droves in the primaries next year. And they’ll be voting for change. While primary voters are normally predominately committed partisans with a long history of voting, in the Pressley-Capuano contest more than half of the voters had no record of previous primary voting (24 percent) or were recorded as voting in only one previous primary (29 percent). “If the Pressley campaign was banking on turnout, they certainly cashed in,” wrote Maeve Duggan, research director at the MassINC Polling Group, in an article posted on the website of WBUR, Boston’s NPR news station. “Some 106,556 voters in the 7th Congressional District cast ballots in the 2018 Democratic primary, compared with just 61,725 in 2014,” she continued, “and among the district’s 2018 primary voters, only 37 percent had also voted” in 2014 primaries, according to voter file analysis. Duggan and the MassINC Polling Group analyzed the demographics of the first-time voters and found: They were predominantly women and young people: Fifty-five percent were women, and 66 percent were age 44 or younger (including 34 percent who were 18 to 29 years old). The surge of young voters had a powerful impact, increasing the overall proportion of voters 44 or younger from 25 percent in 2014 to 42 percent in 2018. Combining age and gender, women ages 18 to 29 made up the largest group of new voters, at 20 percent. The new voters, she found, “were more likely to be Asian or Hispanic, compared with the 7th’s repeat voters,” but, she noted, the state’s only majority-minority congressional district “still has a predominantly white voting base.” A July 2018 pre-election survey of voters in the Capuano-Pressley district conducted by WBUR-MassINC makes clear the importance of growing political participation among young voters. The survey found striking generational differences not only on the candidates but on issues. 18-to-29-year-olds favored Pressley over Capuano 41-23 while those over 60 backed Capuano 59-28. Asked if they would be more or less likely to support a candidate who “made abolishing ICE a major priority,” young voters said “more likely” by 48-18 while older voters said it would make them “less likely” by 25-23. Both young and old supported a national health care program, but the margin of support versus oppose was larger (90-2) among young voters than among their elders (71-16). In a postelection analysis of the Ocasio-Cortez-Crowley contest, the Global Strategy Group found: White gentrified liberal areas went big for AOC and surged. Younger, white liberal areas contributed heavily to the margin of Ocasio-Cortez’s victory. Ocasio-Cortez won Hispanics. At the same time, according to their analysis, voters Crowley thought he could depend upon — “expected people, especially older primary voters — did not show up.” Joshua M. Zeitz, a historian whose most recent book is “Building the Great Society: Inside Lyndon Johnson’s White House,” argues that contemporary Democratic progressives are not insurgents, but in full accord with party tradition. In an essay in Politico, “Democrats Aren’t Moving Left. They’re Returning to Their Roots,” Zeitz argued that What pundits today decry as a radical turn in Democratic policy and politics actually finds its antecedents in 1944. With the country fully mobilized for war, President Franklin Roosevelt called for “a second Bill of Rights … an economic Bill of Rights” that would entitle all Americans to a “useful and remunerative job,” “the right to earn enough to provide adequate food and clothing and recreation,” the “right … to a decent home,” “the right to adequate medical care” and the “right to a good education.” Sawhill looks at the ideological shifts in the Democratic electorate less from a historical perspective and more as a response to contemporary economic and social dislocation. Among both conservatives and liberals, Sawhill argued, there is “an intellectual awakening about the flaws of modern capitalism” — a recognition of the failings of “neoliberalism, the idea that a market economy with a few light guardrails is the best way to organize a society.” This intellectual climate may result in greater receptivity among voters to more radical proposals. The willingness of voters to support Democrats who are pushing initiatives like these will depend in large part, however, on the ability of candidates to assure the general electorate that their agenda is beneficial to all and not just to favored liberal constituencies. This will be difficult, given the fact that what is being proposed is a much larger role for government, and that those who are most in need of government support are in the bottom half of the income distribution and disproportionately minority — in a country with a long racist history. As a presidential candidate, Barack Obama was able to overcome this barrier twice, but the challenge should not be minimized. I invite you to follow me on Twitter, @Edsall. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Thomas B. Edsall has been a contributor to The Times Opinion section since 2011. His column on strategic and demographic trends in American politics appears every Wednesday. He previously covered politics for The Washington Post.   @edsall 

Supported by The Democratic electorate has shifted sharply to the left, taking many politicians along with it — willingly and unwillingly.  By Thomas B. Edsall Mr. Edsall contributes a weekly column from Washington, D.C. on politics, demographics and inequality. The most active wing of the Democratic Party — the roughly 20 percent of the party’s electorate that votes in primaries and wields disproportionate influence over which issues get prioritized — has moved decisively to the left. With all the attention that is being paid to Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Ayanna Pressley, Rashida Tlaib and other new progressive voices in Congress, this may not seem like news, but we are only just beginning to realize the full significance of this shift. The Primaries Project at the Brookings Institution conducted extensive polling of 7,198 Democratic voters in the 2018 primaries and found that 60.4 percent described themselves as liberal, including 26.4 percent who said they were “very liberal.” In its most recent analysis, Gallup found that from 1994 to 2018, the percentage of all Democrats who call themselves liberal more than doubled from 25 percent to 51 percent. Over the same period, the percentage of Democratic moderates and conservatives fell steadily, with the share of moderates dropping from 48 to 34 percent, and of conservatives dropping from 25 to 13 percent. These trends began to accelerate during the administration of George W. Bush and have continued unabated during the Obama and Trump presidencies. In recent years, the internal pressures to hew to the left, driven largely by Democratic primary voters, have steadily gained strength. They include the determination to oppose all things Trump, especially his anti-immigrant policies, his racism and his religious bigotry; the rise of outspoken, well-educated liberals, many of them young; the #MeToo movement and Trump’s disrespect for women; the Occupy movement; the mobilization of anti-establishment voters by Bernie Sanders during the 2016 primaries; and the consistent exodus of more conservative white voters from the Democratic Party, supplanted by more politically liberal minority voters. The anti-establishment faction contributed significantly to the large turnout increases in Democratic primaries last year. Pew found that from 2014 to 2018, turnout in House primaries rose from 13.7 to 19.6 percent of all registered Democrats, in Senate primaries from 16.6 to 22.2 percent and in governor primaries from 17.1 to 24.5 percent. Isabel Sawhill, a senior fellow at Brookings, agrees with the analysis that core voters and activist leaders within the party are “moving leftward”: Medicare for All, free college, a universal jobs guarantee, a $15 minimum wage, an expansion of the EITC to the entire bottom half, workers on boards of directors, ending ICE, raising marginal tax rates to 70 percent are all big, bold leftist ideas and appear to be gaining currency. These “big, bold leftist ideas” pose a strategic problem for liberals and the Democratic Party, Sawhill, who published “The Forgotten Americans: An Economic Agenda for a Divided Nation” last year, wrote in an email: In my view, it’s a trade-off between exciting the base thereby insuring higher turnout vs. broadening the base to include independents and Republicans that don’t like Trump. Sawhill argues that if the goal of Democrats is victory, as opposed to ideological purity, they must focus on general election swing voters who are not die-hard Democrats. One key Democratic target, Sawhill observes, is the “well-educated, suburban women, many of them Republican, who voted for Democrats in the midterms.” Once Trump is gone, she continued, “they could easily return to their natural home in the Republican Party.” “Over the longer-term,” Sawhill continued, as millennials and minorities become an ever-larger proportion of the party, it will have a natural constituency that supports a new and bolder agenda, but the concentration of those voters in urban areas that are underrepresented in our electoral system will be a continuing drag on the party’s prospects. The extensive support among prospective Democratic presidential candidates for Medicare for All, government-guaranteed jobs and a higher minimum wage reflects the widespread desire in the electorate for greater protection from the vicissitudes of market capitalism — in response to “increasingly incomplete risk protection in an era of dramatic social change,” as the political scientist Jacob Hacker put it in “Privatizing Risk without Privatizing the Welfare State: The Hidden Politics of Social Policy Retrenchment in the United States.” Support for such protections is showing signs of becoming a litmus test for candidates running in the 2020 Democratic presidential primaries. Polling by the Pew Research Center shows sharp movement in a progressive direction on key issues among many Democrats. Take liberalized attitudes on immigration as an example. From 2008 to 2018, the percentage of Democrats who said the government should create “a way for immigrants already here illegally to become citizens if the meet certain requirements” grew from 29 to 51 percent, while the share who said “there should be better border security and stronger enforcement of immigration laws” fell from 21 to 5 percent. Similarly, the percentage of Democrats who agreed with the statement that “racial discrimination is the main reason many blacks can’t get ahead these days” rose from 28 to 64 percent from 2010 to 2017. Paul Starr, a sociology professor at Princeton, warns against putting too much stock in the ascendance of progressive Democrats. In an essay in the American Prospect, Starr argues that there were “two distinct developments” in the 2018 elections: While progressives have gained ground in long-held Democratic areas, more centrist candidates have won the more competitive districts. This second development will limit how far to the left the party can go. The more the party expands into the suburbs, the more dependent it will be on those relatively centrist votes — and that dependence will become a constraint on the policies that Democrats are able to agree on. In addition, while acknowledging the rise of the progressive wing, Starr pointed out that a separate December 2018 Gallup survey found that 54 percent of Democratic voters would prefer their party to become “more moderate,” while 41 percent said they would like the party to become “more liberal.” Along similarly cautionary lines, David Graham wrote in the Atlantic last November: There’s clear leftward movement among Democratic voters on a range of issues, and there are more progressive candidates running than ever. But this doesn’t amount, at least yet, to the socialist groundswell that advocates pine for and critics fear. The actual policy positions, and number of leftist officeholders, will remain limited — at least for now. What happens in 2020 could be more telling. Graham’s conclusion: The Democratic Party is moving left, but it might not be clear quite how far left for two or even six years. The revolution is coming more slowly than its champions hope and its critics fear. Matt Grossmann, a political scientist at Michigan State, noted in an email that the leftward movement is across the board on policy, ideological identification, and values, but remains furthest left on specific policy. The public movement seems to be strongest on race and gender issues as well as any proposal tied to Trump. Women, according to Grossmann, “are becoming a bigger part of the Democratic electorate and more supportive of women primary candidates.” The 2018 primary elections revealed the deepening strength of an anti-establishment insurgent faction, largely young, white and minority urban voters who turned out in droves in Democratic primaries from Omaha to Tallahassee and from the Bronx to Boston. Michael Capuano, a former mayor of Somerville, Mass. and a ten-term member of the House, learned the hard way how much the Democratic electorate has changed. As mayor in the 1990s, Capuano presided over the gentrification of the once scruffy, working class town. Initially, the city was grateful. When Capuano first won election to Congress in 1998, he owed his victory in the 10-candidate Democratic primary to his hometown. He carried Somerville with 7,852 votes, more than the total vote for all nine opponents, 6,253, while losing to other candidates in Boston, Belmont, Cambridge, Chelsea and Watertown. The impact of gentrification is striking. By 2017, 61.2 percent of Somerville’s residents 25 or older had at least a bachelor’s degree, compared with 30.9 percent nationwide. The median household income was $84,722, compared with $57,652 nationally. Somerville had moved from downscale to upscale, not to the level of Brattle Street in Cambridge or Boston’s Beacon Hill, but still many steps up the ladder. In the process, Somerville left Capuano, a white working class Democrat in the mold of Tip O’Neill, behind. In 2018, twenty years after first winning his House seat, Capuano could no longer count on Somerville. Despite his deep roots — his father had been mayor before him — the vote there was a wash. Capuano received 8,423 to 8,286 for his opponent, Ayanna Pressley, an African-American Boston city councilwomen. Pressley swept Cambridge and Boston to crush Capuano, 60,046 to 42,430 districtwide. The same pattern emerged in the widely publicized defeat of Joe Crowley, another 10-term incumbent, by Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez in the Democratic primary in a House district that straddles the Bronx and Queens. Steven Romalewski, who runs the mapping service at the CUNY Center for Urban Research, wrote me by email that “Ocasio-Cortez did best in areas such as Astoria/Steinway and Sunnyside, which happen to be more white than other parts of the district,” a point he elaborated upon in a story quoting him posted on The Intercept: You can also see that most of her votes, the strongest vote support, came from areas like Astoria in Queens and Sunnyside in Queens and parts of Jackson Heights that, number one, were not predominantly Hispanic, so they’re a more mixed population, and are areas where — this is kind of a term of art — are in the process of being gentrified, where newer people are moving in, Grace Segers, writing in July on the City & State website, noted that Crowley  fell victim to gentrification and that force may upend expectations in Democratic primaries throughout Manhattan and western Brooklyn and Queens. And the rise of younger voters who are newer to their districts and unattached to incumbents could power insurgent candidates throughout New York City. David Freedlander, writing in Politico Magazine, captured the unanticipated voting patterns that gave rise to Crowley’s defeat. “Ocasio-Cortez’s best precincts,” Freedlander wrote, were  highly educated, whiter and richer than the district as a whole. In those neighborhoods, Ocasio-Cortez clobbered Crowley by 70 percent or more. Conversely, Crowley did best in “the working-class African-American enclave of LeFrak City, where he got more than 60 percent of the vote.” In fact, Crowley pulled some of his best numbers in Ocasio-Cortez’s heavily Latino and African-American neighborhood of Parkchester, in the Bronx — beating her by more than 25 points on her home turf. Jerry Skurnik, a New York political consultant, describes gentrifying communities outside Manhattan as experiencing an influx of “people who really want to live in Greenwich Village but can’t afford to.” This younger, well-educated constituency — predominately but not exclusively white — is hostile to cautious establishment Democrats, especially to older white men, and they are determined to engineer an intraparty cultural and ideological insurgency. The emergence in force in 2018 of these insurgent Democrats grows in part out of the Sanders presidential campaign. Sanders mobilized millions of voters, many of whom did not want the Democrats to nominate a candidate with deep ties to party regulars and to the major donor community. Maps of primary voting patterns in 2016 and 2018 produced by CUNY’s Graduate School of Journalism and the Center for Urban Research show that Sanders beat Clinton in just a handful of New York City neighborhoods. Many of those Sanders neighborhoods are in Ocasio-Cortez’s district and they are the communities that provided her biggest margins of victory. Sanders also carried Somerville in 2016, 12,247 to 9,016, where support for Capuano imploded two years later. If the turnout patterns in the Ocasio-Cortez and Pressley districts are even modestly predictive, the Democratic Party may be changing in significant ways. Tom Kiley, who conducted polling for Capuano, described in an email the shifting makeup of the Democratic electorate in the Seventh District of Massachusetts: Mike did best among older, white, non-college educated Democrats who, for the most part, still described themselves as liberals or moderate liberals. Pressley’s base, Kiley wrote,  was overwhelmingly made up of liberal, college-educated, white voters, especially those under 45 who did not have a history of voting in off-year elections. We were expecting what we considered a robust turnout of 75,000 for the day after Labor Day. In fact it ballooned to over 100,000, largely on the strength of this younger white cohort. While the Boston-Cambridge-Somerville district is far more liberal than the national average, Kiley argued that trends there are likely to be replicated in many regions of the country. “These new voters will have a major impact in the Democratic nomination process in many states,” he wrote: The desire for change in general is huge, and Trump is a powerful accelerant. I have to believe these new voters aren’t going to just retreat after electing new members of Congress; they’ll come out in droves in the primaries next year. And they’ll be voting for change. While primary voters are normally predominately committed partisans with a long history of voting, in the Pressley-Capuano contest more than half of the voters had no record of previous primary voting (24 percent) or were recorded as voting in only one previous primary (29 percent). “If the Pressley campaign was banking on turnout, they certainly cashed in,” wrote Maeve Duggan, research director at the MassINC Polling Group, in an article posted on the website of WBUR, Boston’s NPR news station. “Some 106,556 voters in the 7th Congressional District cast ballots in the 2018 Democratic primary, compared with just 61,725 in 2014,” she continued, “and among the district’s 2018 primary voters, only 37 percent had also voted” in 2014 primaries, according to voter file analysis. Duggan and the MassINC Polling Group analyzed the demographics of the first-time voters and found: They were predominantly women and young people: Fifty-five percent were women, and 66 percent were age 44 or younger (including 34 percent who were 18 to 29 years old). The surge of young voters had a powerful impact, increasing the overall proportion of voters 44 or younger from 25 percent in 2014 to 42 percent in 2018. Combining age and gender, women ages 18 to 29 made up the largest group of new voters, at 20 percent. The new voters, she found, “were more likely to be Asian or Hispanic, compared with the 7th’s repeat voters,” but, she noted, the state’s only majority-minority congressional district “still has a predominantly white voting base.” A July 2018 pre-election survey of voters in the Capuano-Pressley district conducted by WBUR-MassINC makes clear the importance of growing political participation among young voters. The survey found striking generational differences not only on the candidates but on issues. 18-to-29-year-olds favored Pressley over Capuano 41-23 while those over 60 backed Capuano 59-28. Asked if they would be more or less likely to support a candidate who “made abolishing ICE a major priority,” young voters said “more likely” by 48-18 while older voters said it would make them “less likely” by 25-23. Both young and old supported a national health care program, but the margin of support versus oppose was larger (90-2) among young voters than among their elders (71-16). In a postelection analysis of the Ocasio-Cortez-Crowley contest, the Global Strategy Group found: White gentrified liberal areas went big for AOC and surged. Younger, white liberal areas contributed heavily to the margin of Ocasio-Cortez’s victory. Ocasio-Cortez won Hispanics. At the same time, according to their analysis, voters Crowley thought he could depend upon — “expected people, especially older primary voters — did not show up.” Joshua M. Zeitz, a historian whose most recent book is “Building the Great Society: Inside Lyndon Johnson’s White House,” argues that contemporary Democratic progressives are not insurgents, but in full accord with party tradition. In an essay in Politico, “Democrats Aren’t Moving Left. They’re Returning to Their Roots,” Zeitz argued that What pundits today decry as a radical turn in Democratic policy and politics actually finds its antecedents in 1944. With the country fully mobilized for war, President Franklin Roosevelt called for “a second Bill of Rights … an economic Bill of Rights” that would entitle all Americans to a “useful and remunerative job,” “the right to earn enough to provide adequate food and clothing and recreation,” the “right … to a decent home,” “the right to adequate medical care” and the “right to a good education.” Sawhill looks at the ideological shifts in the Democratic electorate less from a historical perspective and more as a response to contemporary economic and social dislocation. Among both conservatives and liberals, Sawhill argued, there is “an intellectual awakening about the flaws of modern capitalism” — a recognition of the failings of “neoliberalism, the idea that a market economy with a few light guardrails is the best way to organize a society.” This intellectual climate may result in greater receptivity among voters to more radical proposals. The willingness of voters to support Democrats who are pushing initiatives like these will depend in large part, however, on the ability of candidates to assure the general electorate that their agenda is beneficial to all and not just to favored liberal constituencies. This will be difficult, given the fact that what is being proposed is a much larger role for government, and that those who are most in need of government support are in the bottom half of the income distribution and disproportionately minority — in a country with a long racist history. As a presidential candidate, Barack Obama was able to overcome this barrier twice, but the challenge should not be minimized. I invite you to follow me on Twitter, @Edsall. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Thomas B. Edsall has been a contributor to The Times Opinion section since 2011. His column on strategic and demographic trends in American politics appears every Wednesday. He previously covered politics for The Washington Post.   @edsall Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — The Latest on congressional reaction to special counsel Robert Mueller's report (all times local): 5:15 p.m. The Justice Department says the subpoena issued by House Democrats for the full special counsel report is unnecessary. Justice Department spokesperson Kerri Kupec says Attorney General William Barr released the report with "minimal redactions." Kupec says the department is working with Congress to view more of the report and the subpoena issued Friday by Rep. Jerrold Nadler, the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, is "premature and unnecessary." The department offered Friday to have a select group of congressional leaders view some of the redacted information from the report. But Democrats rejected that offer as insufficient. __ 5 p.m. Top congressional Democrats are rejecting a Justice Department offer to let 12 leading lawmakers see a more complete version of the special counsel's report because they say the suggested ground rules are too limiting. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer and four other leading Democrats said in a letter Friday that lawmakers must see Robert Mueller's entire report so Congress can "fulfill its constitutional responsibilities." They offered to negotiate a workable agreement. The Justice Department is offering to let the legislators see much of the information that was redacted in the report released Thursday. It says only information censored because it pertains to grand jury proceedings would still be withheld. The department said lawmakers could view the less-censored version at the agency and would have to pledge to keep the information confidential. __ 4:30 p.m. Republican Sen. Mitt Romney says he's "sickened" by the level of dishonesty the special counsel found in President Donald Trump's administration. Romney also said Friday he was "appalled" that, according to special counsel Robert Mueller's findings, Americans working on Trump's 2016 presidential campaign welcomed election help from Russia. The one-time GOP presidential nominee tweeted that it's "good news" Trump was not charged with wrongdoing in the investigation. But Romney, who's now a senator from Utah, was critical of what he called the "pervasiveness of dishonesty and misdirection" at the highest levels of the administration, "including the president." __ 9:45 a.m. The chairman of the House Judiciary Committee has issued a subpoena for special counsel Robert Mueller's report as Congress escalates its investigation of President Donald Trump. Rep. Jerrold Nadler of New York say, "It now falls to Congress to determine the full scope of that alleged misconduct and to decide what steps we must take going forward." He expects the Justice Department to comply by May 1. While Mueller declined to prosecute Trump on obstruction of justice, he did not exonerate the president, all but leaving the question to Congress.

Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — The Latest on congressional reaction to special counsel Robert Mueller's report (all times local): 5:15 p.m. The Justice Department says the subpoena issued by House Democrats for the full special counsel report is unnecessary. Justice Department spokesperson Kerri Kupec says Attorney General William Barr released the report with "minimal redactions." Kupec says the department is working with Congress to view more of the report and the subpoena issued Friday by Rep. Jerrold Nadler, the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, is "premature and unnecessary." The department offered Friday to have a select group of congressional leaders view some of the redacted information from the report. But Democrats rejected that offer as insufficient. __ 5 p.m. Top congressional Democrats are rejecting a Justice Department offer to let 12 leading lawmakers see a more complete version of the special counsel's report because they say the suggested ground rules are too limiting. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer and four other leading Democrats said in a letter Friday that lawmakers must see Robert Mueller's entire report so Congress can "fulfill its constitutional responsibilities." They offered to negotiate a workable agreement. The Justice Department is offering to let the legislators see much of the information that was redacted in the report released Thursday. It says only information censored because it pertains to grand jury proceedings would still be withheld. The department said lawmakers could view the less-censored version at the agency and would have to pledge to keep the information confidential. __ 4:30 p.m. Republican Sen. Mitt Romney says he's "sickened" by the level of dishonesty the special counsel found in President Donald Trump's administration. Romney also said Friday he was "appalled" that, according to special counsel Robert Mueller's findings, Americans working on Trump's 2016 presidential campaign welcomed election help from Russia. The one-time GOP presidential nominee tweeted that it's "good news" Trump was not charged with wrongdoing in the investigation. But Romney, who's now a senator from Utah, was critical of what he called the "pervasiveness of dishonesty and misdirection" at the highest levels of the administration, "including the president." __ 9:45 a.m. The chairman of the House Judiciary Committee has issued a subpoena for special counsel Robert Mueller's report as Congress escalates its investigation of President Donald Trump. Rep. Jerrold Nadler of New York say, "It now falls to Congress to determine the full scope of that alleged misconduct and to decide what steps we must take going forward." He expects the Justice Department to comply by May 1. While Mueller declined to prosecute Trump on obstruction of justice, he did not exonerate the president, all but leaving the question to Congress.Supported by By The Associated Press NEW YORK — With the Mueller Report finally out Thursday, at least in redacted form, publishers are hurrying to release book editions. Two Mueller Report books are in the top 15 on Amazon.com even though free pdfs are available online. The special prosecutor's findings, which run more than 400 pages, concluded that he could not find criminal evidence of conspiracy between the Donald Trump 2016 presidential campaign and Russia's government but could not rule out the possibility that Trump may have obstructed justice after he won the 2016 election. Scribner, Melville House and Skyhorse Publishing are among those planning to have paperbacks out before the end of the month, with prices ranging from $15 for the Scribner book to $9.99 for the Melville House one, and e-books out by the end of the week. Barnes & Noble expects to have a free download for its Nook e-reader on Thursday. The Amazon-owned Audible Inc. plans a free audiobook. By Thursday night, the Skyhorse version was No. 9 and Scribner No. 14 on Amazon's bestseller list. Melville House had climbed from No. 324 earlier in the day to 74. Government reports have been a highly specialized niche in the book world for decades. They are public documents, often available for free and open for anyone to publish. But some releases are so intensely anticipated, among them the Warren Commission study of former President John F. Kennedy's assassination and the 9-11 Commission Report, they become best sellers. The 9-11 report was even nominated for a National Book Award. The Mueller report will likely have a substantial paying audience because of enormous public interest and because nonfiction works tend to sell predominantly in paper form. Scribner and Skyhorse also hope to attract readers with additional material, some of which they are hurrying to complete over the next couple of days. Skyhorse editorial director Mark Gompertz said that Alan Dershowitz, the attorney and frequent Trump defender, was "the fastest reader and writer we have ever worked with" and was expected to finish an introduction for the Mueller book by Thursday night. The Scribner book, expected to exceed 700 pages, is being prepared in conjunction with The Washington Post. Some material, including a timeline of the investigation, has already been prepared. The Post is working on an introduction that will provide analysis of the report, and a combination of Post reporters and professional narrators will work on an audio edition. "We're going as fast as we can," says Colin Harrison, Scribner's editor-in-chief. The industry suffered from printing shortages last fall and winter, with such works as David W. Blight's Pulitzer Prize-winning biography unavailable for weeks. But Harrison says that Scribner can easily meet its announced first printing of 350,000. "The planning for this has been in the works for a long time," he says. "We're even prepared to go back to press, expeditiously, for more books. We have the paper. We're ready."

Supported by By The Associated Press NEW YORK — With the Mueller Report finally out Thursday, at least in redacted form, publishers are hurrying to release book editions. Two Mueller Report books are in the top 15 on Amazon.com even though free pdfs are available online. The special prosecutor's findings, which run more than 400 pages, concluded that he could not find criminal evidence of conspiracy between the Donald Trump 2016 presidential campaign and Russia's government but could not rule out the possibility that Trump may have obstructed justice after he won the 2016 election. Scribner, Melville House and Skyhorse Publishing are among those planning to have paperbacks out before the end of the month, with prices ranging from $15 for the Scribner book to $9.99 for the Melville House one, and e-books out by the end of the week. Barnes & Noble expects to have a free download for its Nook e-reader on Thursday. The Amazon-owned Audible Inc. plans a free audiobook. By Thursday night, the Skyhorse version was No. 9 and Scribner No. 14 on Amazon's bestseller list. Melville House had climbed from No. 324 earlier in the day to 74. Government reports have been a highly specialized niche in the book world for decades. They are public documents, often available for free and open for anyone to publish. But some releases are so intensely anticipated, among them the Warren Commission study of former President John F. Kennedy's assassination and the 9-11 Commission Report, they become best sellers. The 9-11 report was even nominated for a National Book Award. The Mueller report will likely have a substantial paying audience because of enormous public interest and because nonfiction works tend to sell predominantly in paper form. Scribner and Skyhorse also hope to attract readers with additional material, some of which they are hurrying to complete over the next couple of days. Skyhorse editorial director Mark Gompertz said that Alan Dershowitz, the attorney and frequent Trump defender, was "the fastest reader and writer we have ever worked with" and was expected to finish an introduction for the Mueller book by Thursday night. The Scribner book, expected to exceed 700 pages, is being prepared in conjunction with The Washington Post. Some material, including a timeline of the investigation, has already been prepared. The Post is working on an introduction that will provide analysis of the report, and a combination of Post reporters and professional narrators will work on an audio edition. "We're going as fast as we can," says Colin Harrison, Scribner's editor-in-chief. The industry suffered from printing shortages last fall and winter, with such works as David W. Blight's Pulitzer Prize-winning biography unavailable for weeks. But Harrison says that Scribner can easily meet its announced first printing of 350,000. "The planning for this has been in the works for a long time," he says. "We're even prepared to go back to press, expeditiously, for more books. We have the paper. We're ready."

      By LARRY BUCHANAN and 
    
KAREN YOURISH

UPDATED Feb. 27, 2019
 
 Michael D. Cohen, Donald J. Trump’s former lawyer, is publicly testifying before Congress today. Here is what was previously known and what we are now learning about hush money payments and efforts to build a Trump Tower in Moscow during the 2016 campaign. Michael D. Cohen paid  $130,000 to negotiated  payment between says he made the payments at the direction of The National  Enquirer Stormy Daniels Karen  McDougal whose parent  company is  chaired by to cover up an  alleged affair with to cover up an  alleged affair with who is a longtime friend of Donald J. Trump David J. Pecker Michael D. Cohen paid  $130,000  to says he made the payments at the direction of negotiated  payment between The National  Enquirer Stormy Daniels Karen  McDougal to cover up an  alleged affair with to cover up an  alleged affair with whose parent  company is  chaired by David J. Pecker Donald J. Trump who is a  longtime friend  of June 2015 Trump begins presidential campaign. Aug. 2015 Pecker tells Cohen and “one or more members of the campaign” that he can help quash negative stories about Trump. June 2016 McDougal approaches American Media, which owns The National Enquirer, with her story. Pecker tells Cohen. Cohen says pay her off. Aug. 2016 American Media enters into an agreement with McDougal. Sept. 2016 Cohen secretly records conversation in which Trump seems to know about the McDougal payment. Oct.  2016 Daniels tells American Media she is going public with her story. Pecker tells Cohen. Cohen sets up shell company to pay off Daniels. Nov. 2016 The Wall Street Journal uncovers the McDougal deal. The Trump campaign issues a flat denial: “We have no knowledge of any of this.” Jan. 2017 Cohen asks the Trump Organization to be reimbursed. Feb. 2017 According to Cohen’s written testimony, Trump told Cohen during a visit to the White House that his reimbursement checks were coming. Feb. 2018 Cohen says the Trump Organization did not know about the payment to Daniels. In testimony before Congress on Wednesday, Cohen said Trump directed him to lie about the payment. March 2018 “There was no knowledge of any payments from the president,” says Sarah Huckabee Sanders, White House press secretary. April 2018 Trump denies any knowledge of payments. May 2018 Trump says he reimbursed Cohen but that the payments were not campaign finance violations. Aug. 2018 In pleading guilty to campaign finance violations, Cohen says he arranged for the payments “at the direction” of Trump “for the principal purpose of influencing the election.” worked on a plan to build Trump Tower Moscow with Felix H. Sater Michael D. Cohen says he was implicitly instructed to lie about the project by longtime business associate discussed the status of the project  during the campaign with Donald Trump Jr. Ivanka Trump Donald J. Trump Signed a nonbinding letter of intent to pursue the project. Michael D.  Cohen Felix H. Sater worked on a plan to build Trump Tower Moscow with longtime business associate says he was implicitly instructed to lie about the project by discussed the status of the project during the campaign with Ivanka Trump Donald Trump Jr. Donald J. Trump Signed a nonbinding letter of intent to pursue the project. June 2015 Trump begins presidential campaign. Sept. 2015 Cohen and Sater begin to discuss Moscow project. Oct. 2015 Sater tells Cohen it might be possible to get financing from a Russian bank under American sanctions.  Trump signs letter of intent to pursue Moscow project. Jan. 2016 Cohen emails Kremlin asking for assistance with project. He contacts them again two days later.  Cohen receives response from Kremlin and discusses the project over the phone. April 2016 “We’re going to have a great relationship with Putin and Russia,” Trump says during a primary victory speech. May 2016 Cohen tells Sater that he can travel to Russia before the Republican presidential convention and that Trump can travel to Russia after the convention. June 2016 According to Cohen, Trump asked about the Moscow project at least six times between the Iowa caucuses and the end of June. Oct. 2016 During the second presidential debate Trump says, “I know nothing about the inner workings of Russia. I don’t deal there. I have no businesses there.” Aug. to Oct. 2017 Cohen tells Congress that the Moscow project ended in January 2016, that he did not agree to travel to Russia and that he never received a response from the Kremlin. Nov. 2018 Cohen pleads guilty to lying to Congress about all of the above. In his testimony on Wednesday, Cohen plans to say that Trump’s personal lawyers “reviewed and edited” his 2017 statement to Congress.  Trump says Cohen is “lying” about a project “that everybody knew about” but that “there would have been nothing wrong” if he had decided to move forward with it.



      By LARRY BUCHANAN and 
    
KAREN YOURISH

UPDATED Feb. 27, 2019
 
 Michael D. Cohen, Donald J. Trump’s former lawyer, is publicly testifying before Congress today. Here is what was previously known and what we are now learning about hush money payments and efforts to build a Trump Tower in Moscow during the 2016 campaign. Michael D. Cohen paid  $130,000 to negotiated  payment between says he made the payments at the direction of The National  Enquirer Stormy Daniels Karen  McDougal whose parent  company is  chaired by to cover up an  alleged affair with to cover up an  alleged affair with who is a longtime friend of Donald J. Trump David J. Pecker Michael D. Cohen paid  $130,000  to says he made the payments at the direction of negotiated  payment between The National  Enquirer Stormy Daniels Karen  McDougal to cover up an  alleged affair with to cover up an  alleged affair with whose parent  company is  chaired by David J. Pecker Donald J. Trump who is a  longtime friend  of June 2015 Trump begins presidential campaign. Aug. 2015 Pecker tells Cohen and “one or more members of the campaign” that he can help quash negative stories about Trump. June 2016 McDougal approaches American Media, which owns The National Enquirer, with her story. Pecker tells Cohen. Cohen says pay her off. Aug. 2016 American Media enters into an agreement with McDougal. Sept. 2016 Cohen secretly records conversation in which Trump seems to know about the McDougal payment. Oct.  2016 Daniels tells American Media she is going public with her story. Pecker tells Cohen. Cohen sets up shell company to pay off Daniels. Nov. 2016 The Wall Street Journal uncovers the McDougal deal. The Trump campaign issues a flat denial: “We have no knowledge of any of this.” Jan. 2017 Cohen asks the Trump Organization to be reimbursed. Feb. 2017 According to Cohen’s written testimony, Trump told Cohen during a visit to the White House that his reimbursement checks were coming. Feb. 2018 Cohen says the Trump Organization did not know about the payment to Daniels. In testimony before Congress on Wednesday, Cohen said Trump directed him to lie about the payment. March 2018 “There was no knowledge of any payments from the president,” says Sarah Huckabee Sanders, White House press secretary. April 2018 Trump denies any knowledge of payments. May 2018 Trump says he reimbursed Cohen but that the payments were not campaign finance violations. Aug. 2018 In pleading guilty to campaign finance violations, Cohen says he arranged for the payments “at the direction” of Trump “for the principal purpose of influencing the election.” worked on a plan to build Trump Tower Moscow with Felix H. Sater Michael D. Cohen says he was implicitly instructed to lie about the project by longtime business associate discussed the status of the project  during the campaign with Donald Trump Jr. Ivanka Trump Donald J. Trump Signed a nonbinding letter of intent to pursue the project. Michael D.  Cohen Felix H. Sater worked on a plan to build Trump Tower Moscow with longtime business associate says he was implicitly instructed to lie about the project by discussed the status of the project during the campaign with Ivanka Trump Donald Trump Jr. Donald J. Trump Signed a nonbinding letter of intent to pursue the project. June 2015 Trump begins presidential campaign. Sept. 2015 Cohen and Sater begin to discuss Moscow project. Oct. 2015 Sater tells Cohen it might be possible to get financing from a Russian bank under American sanctions.  Trump signs letter of intent to pursue Moscow project. Jan. 2016 Cohen emails Kremlin asking for assistance with project. He contacts them again two days later.  Cohen receives response from Kremlin and discusses the project over the phone. April 2016 “We’re going to have a great relationship with Putin and Russia,” Trump says during a primary victory speech. May 2016 Cohen tells Sater that he can travel to Russia before the Republican presidential convention and that Trump can travel to Russia after the convention. June 2016 According to Cohen, Trump asked about the Moscow project at least six times between the Iowa caucuses and the end of June. Oct. 2016 During the second presidential debate Trump says, “I know nothing about the inner workings of Russia. I don’t deal there. I have no businesses there.” Aug. to Oct. 2017 Cohen tells Congress that the Moscow project ended in January 2016, that he did not agree to travel to Russia and that he never received a response from the Kremlin. Nov. 2018 Cohen pleads guilty to lying to Congress about all of the above. In his testimony on Wednesday, Cohen plans to say that Trump’s personal lawyers “reviewed and edited” his 2017 statement to Congress.  Trump says Cohen is “lying” about a project “that everybody knew about” but that “there would have been nothing wrong” if he had decided to move forward with it.Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — U.S. Senator Elizabeth Warren is proposing a new 7 percent tax on corporate profits that exceed $100 million, her presidential campaign said on Thursday.  Warren's proposal would apply the new tax to the profits reported to shareholders, instead of the amounts companies already report to the Internal Revenue Service. The profits reported to shareholders are frequently much larger, given the loopholes, deductions and other accounting differences allowed by the tax code.  Her campaign estimates about 1,200 companies would be subject to the new tax. It would bring the government an additional $1.05 trillion in new tax revenue over 10 years, according to estimates from economists Emmanuel Saez and Gabriel Zucman at the University of California-Berkeley. Under her proposal, companies' first $100 million in profit would be exempt from the new tax, which would be in addition to existing corporate taxes that companies pay. Warren specifically targeted Amazon.com and Occidental Petroleum as two companies that are not paying enough in corporate taxes and would be forced to pay more under her proposal. Amazon disputed that the company is not paying adequate taxes, and a spokesperson also pointed out that the company creates "tens of thousands of quality jobs." "Amazon pays all the taxes we are required to pay in the U.S. and every country where we operate, including paying $2.6 billion in corporate tax and reporting $3.4 billion in tax expense over the last three years," an Amazon spokesperson said in a statement.  For each dollar over that threshold, the companies would be subject to a 7 percent tax, Warren outlined in a post on the website Medium and seen by Reuters. Warren hopes to challenge Republican President Donald Trump, who has focused on tax cuts for corporations, which he says have allowed the economy to flourish and helped lower the unemployment rate. Warren is competing in a crowded field of more than 15 Democrats vying for their party's nomination and has sought to distinguish herself by offering the most numerous and expansive policy proposals. Warren's new tax, which she dubs the "Real Corporate Profits Tax," would account for profits U.S. companies make globally and would also be imposed on foreign companies doing substantial work in the United States.  "This new tax applies to the profits very large American companies report to their investors -- with no loopholes or exemptions," Warren wrote in her proposal.  Republicans are likely to criticize her plan by arguing it will drive companies currently incorporated in the United States to leave or change domicile to avoid the tax - a practice known as inversion. Warren's campaign argues that rules on inversions put in place by the Treasury in 2016 have halted the practice and that she would continue strict enforcement if elected.   (Reporting by Ginger Gibson; Editing by Sonya Hepinstall and Bernadette Baum)

Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — U.S. Senator Elizabeth Warren is proposing a new 7 percent tax on corporate profits that exceed $100 million, her presidential campaign said on Thursday.  Warren's proposal would apply the new tax to the profits reported to shareholders, instead of the amounts companies already report to the Internal Revenue Service. The profits reported to shareholders are frequently much larger, given the loopholes, deductions and other accounting differences allowed by the tax code.  Her campaign estimates about 1,200 companies would be subject to the new tax. It would bring the government an additional $1.05 trillion in new tax revenue over 10 years, according to estimates from economists Emmanuel Saez and Gabriel Zucman at the University of California-Berkeley. Under her proposal, companies' first $100 million in profit would be exempt from the new tax, which would be in addition to existing corporate taxes that companies pay. Warren specifically targeted Amazon.com and Occidental Petroleum as two companies that are not paying enough in corporate taxes and would be forced to pay more under her proposal. Amazon disputed that the company is not paying adequate taxes, and a spokesperson also pointed out that the company creates "tens of thousands of quality jobs." "Amazon pays all the taxes we are required to pay in the U.S. and every country where we operate, including paying $2.6 billion in corporate tax and reporting $3.4 billion in tax expense over the last three years," an Amazon spokesperson said in a statement.  For each dollar over that threshold, the companies would be subject to a 7 percent tax, Warren outlined in a post on the website Medium and seen by Reuters. Warren hopes to challenge Republican President Donald Trump, who has focused on tax cuts for corporations, which he says have allowed the economy to flourish and helped lower the unemployment rate. Warren is competing in a crowded field of more than 15 Democrats vying for their party's nomination and has sought to distinguish herself by offering the most numerous and expansive policy proposals. Warren's new tax, which she dubs the "Real Corporate Profits Tax," would account for profits U.S. companies make globally and would also be imposed on foreign companies doing substantial work in the United States.  "This new tax applies to the profits very large American companies report to their investors -- with no loopholes or exemptions," Warren wrote in her proposal.  Republicans are likely to criticize her plan by arguing it will drive companies currently incorporated in the United States to leave or change domicile to avoid the tax - a practice known as inversion. Warren's campaign argues that rules on inversions put in place by the Treasury in 2016 have halted the practice and that she would continue strict enforcement if elected.   (Reporting by Ginger Gibson; Editing by Sonya Hepinstall and Bernadette Baum)Supported by Pete Buttigieg, a 37-year-old who entered the presidential race, deserves a hearing. By David Leonhardt Opinion Columnist This article is part of David Leonhardt’s newsletter. You can sign up here to receive it each weekday. “I think a lot about intergenerational justice,” Pete Buttigieg, the latest Democrat to enter the presidential race, said recently. Buttigieg is 37 years old. His generation, as he points out, has endured school shootings, post-9/11 wars, climate change, rising debts and the prospect that it will fail to earn more than its parents.  Buttigieg — pronounced “BOOT-edge-edge” — doesn’t have the typical résumé of a presidential candidate. He is a successful two-term mayor of South Bend, Ind., who has never held higher office. He will need to persuade voters that he has the experience and judgment to clean up Donald Trump’s mess. But I find his candidacy intriguing.  He has fully embraced the idea that the United States needs to focus on its future. As Ben White of Politico tweeted, Buttigieg “running an explicitly generational campaign as a millennial screwed by boomers who wrecked the earth and destroyed the nation’s finances is super interesting.” An Atlantic piece yesterday by Edward-Isaac Dovere ran under the headline: “Pete Buttigieg Thinks All the 2020 Democrats Are Too Old.” Buttigieg himself says in an announcement video: “We can’t look for greatness in the past. Right now, our country needs a fresh start.” No matter how Buttigieg himself fares as a candidate, I hope he forces the other candidates to address the generational inequities in American life.  For more about the candidate, you can listen to him tell his life story — including a transition from Rhodes scholar to naval intelligence officer in Afghanistan — on David Axelrod’s podcast. Also: Bob Moser has profiled Buttigieg in The Washington Post Magazine, asking if he could become the first millennial president. In 2016, my colleague Frank Bruni asked if Buttigieg could become the first gay president. In Indianapolis Monthly, Adam Wren tells the story of Buttigieg impressing top Democrats. And The Washington Post’s Cathleen Decker and Chelsea Janes write that his Midwestern credentials could help the Democrats rebuild the “blue wall” that crumbled in 2016. Not good, Mr. Vice President Last week, I urged Joe Biden to run for president, arguing that Democrats would benefit from a diverse field and that Biden’s experience made him unique among the potential candidates. If he ran a strong campaign and seemed right for the moment, he could be the best person to take on President Trump. If Biden didn’t run a strong campaign, he wouldn’t win the nomination anyway. Yesterday brought a reminder that Biden doesn’t have a good history of running presidential campaigns. Alexander Burns of The Times broke the news that during last year’s midterm campaign, Biden accepted $200,000 to a give a speech in Michigan during which he praised Fred Upton, a Republican House candidate locked in a rough re-election campaign. The $200,000 came from a local group with ties to Upton’s family. Biden’s comments ended up in advertisements that helped defeat the Democratic candidate.  The episode seems accidental, not corrupt. Biden apparently made the comments off the cuff, motivated by Upton’s work on a bill to support cancer research. And it certainly shouldn’t be a political crime for people to praise members of the other party.  But given the money Biden received, he should have been more thoughtful. Instead, he reminded a lot of Democratic voters about a problem with Hillary Clinton’s 2016 campaign: her paid speeches. Biden also offered a reminder that his previous two presidential campaigns — in 1988 and 2008 — struggled from the very start. If he runs this time, he will need to become less careless. Israel and anti-Semitism The current Israeli government commits systematic human rights abuses. A fair amount of the criticism of that same Israeli government is tinged with anti-Semitism. I believe both of those statements are true. On this week’s episode of “The Argument” podcast, I talked about Israel with my colleague Bret Stephens and Michelle Goldberg — who very much disagree with each other. Bret also spoke with Ross Douthat about the Republican Party and the white working class.  If you are not a subscriber to this newsletter, you can subscribe here. You can also join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt • Facebook 

Supported by Pete Buttigieg, a 37-year-old who entered the presidential race, deserves a hearing. By David Leonhardt Opinion Columnist This article is part of David Leonhardt’s newsletter. You can sign up here to receive it each weekday. “I think a lot about intergenerational justice,” Pete Buttigieg, the latest Democrat to enter the presidential race, said recently. Buttigieg is 37 years old. His generation, as he points out, has endured school shootings, post-9/11 wars, climate change, rising debts and the prospect that it will fail to earn more than its parents.  Buttigieg — pronounced “BOOT-edge-edge” — doesn’t have the typical résumé of a presidential candidate. He is a successful two-term mayor of South Bend, Ind., who has never held higher office. He will need to persuade voters that he has the experience and judgment to clean up Donald Trump’s mess. But I find his candidacy intriguing.  He has fully embraced the idea that the United States needs to focus on its future. As Ben White of Politico tweeted, Buttigieg “running an explicitly generational campaign as a millennial screwed by boomers who wrecked the earth and destroyed the nation’s finances is super interesting.” An Atlantic piece yesterday by Edward-Isaac Dovere ran under the headline: “Pete Buttigieg Thinks All the 2020 Democrats Are Too Old.” Buttigieg himself says in an announcement video: “We can’t look for greatness in the past. Right now, our country needs a fresh start.” No matter how Buttigieg himself fares as a candidate, I hope he forces the other candidates to address the generational inequities in American life.  For more about the candidate, you can listen to him tell his life story — including a transition from Rhodes scholar to naval intelligence officer in Afghanistan — on David Axelrod’s podcast. Also: Bob Moser has profiled Buttigieg in The Washington Post Magazine, asking if he could become the first millennial president. In 2016, my colleague Frank Bruni asked if Buttigieg could become the first gay president. In Indianapolis Monthly, Adam Wren tells the story of Buttigieg impressing top Democrats. And The Washington Post’s Cathleen Decker and Chelsea Janes write that his Midwestern credentials could help the Democrats rebuild the “blue wall” that crumbled in 2016. Not good, Mr. Vice President Last week, I urged Joe Biden to run for president, arguing that Democrats would benefit from a diverse field and that Biden’s experience made him unique among the potential candidates. If he ran a strong campaign and seemed right for the moment, he could be the best person to take on President Trump. If Biden didn’t run a strong campaign, he wouldn’t win the nomination anyway. Yesterday brought a reminder that Biden doesn’t have a good history of running presidential campaigns. Alexander Burns of The Times broke the news that during last year’s midterm campaign, Biden accepted $200,000 to a give a speech in Michigan during which he praised Fred Upton, a Republican House candidate locked in a rough re-election campaign. The $200,000 came from a local group with ties to Upton’s family. Biden’s comments ended up in advertisements that helped defeat the Democratic candidate.  The episode seems accidental, not corrupt. Biden apparently made the comments off the cuff, motivated by Upton’s work on a bill to support cancer research. And it certainly shouldn’t be a political crime for people to praise members of the other party.  But given the money Biden received, he should have been more thoughtful. Instead, he reminded a lot of Democratic voters about a problem with Hillary Clinton’s 2016 campaign: her paid speeches. Biden also offered a reminder that his previous two presidential campaigns — in 1988 and 2008 — struggled from the very start. If he runs this time, he will need to become less careless. Israel and anti-Semitism The current Israeli government commits systematic human rights abuses. A fair amount of the criticism of that same Israeli government is tinged with anti-Semitism. I believe both of those statements are true. On this week’s episode of “The Argument” podcast, I talked about Israel with my colleague Bret Stephens and Michelle Goldberg — who very much disagree with each other. Bret also spoke with Ross Douthat about the Republican Party and the white working class.  If you are not a subscriber to this newsletter, you can subscribe here. You can also join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt • Facebook Supported by Good Tuesday morning. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today. _____________________ • For nearly two decades, President Trump relied on Deutsche Bank to lend to him when others wouldn’t. The bank, eager to expand in the United States, lent him $2 billion over the years — and once he was elected president, employees were told not to utter his name. Here’s what The Times found in an investigation, and here are four takeaways from our reporting. • Expanding access to insurance animated the Democrats’ 2018 congressional campaigns. But as House Democrats sit down to draft their vision of health care policy, lawmakers find themselves badly divided on an issue that helped deliver their majority. • Beto O’Rourke raised more than $6 million online in the first 24 hours after announcing his presidential campaign last week, outpacing his rivals for the Democratic nomination and making an emphatic statement about his grass-roots financial strength. • Democratic candidates for president are importing grass-roots activism into their campaign by bringing a new generation of staff members into the fold who are more diverse and issue-driven than in years past. • A long-running federal investigation into a White House counsel in the Obama administration is reaching a critical stage, presenting the Justice Department with a decision about whether to charge a prominent Democrat as part of a more aggressive crackdown on illegal foreign lobbying. • Almost 17 years since Lee Malvo participated in sniper attacks that killed 10 people around the Washington area, the Supreme Court agreed to decide whether he may challenge his sentences of life in prison without the possibility of parole. • Next week, a year after the Supreme Court last heard arguments over whether extreme partisan gerrymandering can cross a constitutional line, the justices will again consider the question. • Kirstjen Nielsen, the Homeland Security secretary, said that cyberthreats against the United States were her top national security priority — not the situation at the southwestern border. • American intelligence spending could rise to nearly $86 billion, an increase that reflects  a renewed focus on threats from Russia and China. • Top Democrats on the House and Senate intelligence and judiciary committees have asked the F.B.I. to open investigations into the activities of a Chinese-American woman suspected of trying to sell access to Mr. Trump. _____________________ Today’s On Politics briefing was compiled by Isabella Grullón Paz in New York. Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.

Supported by Good Tuesday morning. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today. _____________________ • For nearly two decades, President Trump relied on Deutsche Bank to lend to him when others wouldn’t. The bank, eager to expand in the United States, lent him $2 billion over the years — and once he was elected president, employees were told not to utter his name. Here’s what The Times found in an investigation, and here are four takeaways from our reporting. • Expanding access to insurance animated the Democrats’ 2018 congressional campaigns. But as House Democrats sit down to draft their vision of health care policy, lawmakers find themselves badly divided on an issue that helped deliver their majority. • Beto O’Rourke raised more than $6 million online in the first 24 hours after announcing his presidential campaign last week, outpacing his rivals for the Democratic nomination and making an emphatic statement about his grass-roots financial strength. • Democratic candidates for president are importing grass-roots activism into their campaign by bringing a new generation of staff members into the fold who are more diverse and issue-driven than in years past. • A long-running federal investigation into a White House counsel in the Obama administration is reaching a critical stage, presenting the Justice Department with a decision about whether to charge a prominent Democrat as part of a more aggressive crackdown on illegal foreign lobbying. • Almost 17 years since Lee Malvo participated in sniper attacks that killed 10 people around the Washington area, the Supreme Court agreed to decide whether he may challenge his sentences of life in prison without the possibility of parole. • Next week, a year after the Supreme Court last heard arguments over whether extreme partisan gerrymandering can cross a constitutional line, the justices will again consider the question. • Kirstjen Nielsen, the Homeland Security secretary, said that cyberthreats against the United States were her top national security priority — not the situation at the southwestern border. • American intelligence spending could rise to nearly $86 billion, an increase that reflects  a renewed focus on threats from Russia and China. • Top Democrats on the House and Senate intelligence and judiciary committees have asked the F.B.I. to open investigations into the activities of a Chinese-American woman suspected of trying to sell access to Mr. Trump. _____________________ Today’s On Politics briefing was compiled by Isabella Grullón Paz in New York. Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.Supported by The G.O.P. could really use a remarkably successful policy entrepreneur.  By Peter Suderman Mr. Suderman is the features editor at Reason. Last week, Bernie Sanders released the latest version of his “Medicare for all” plan, which would establish a federally run single-payer system to finance care for everyone in the United States. The plan has changed little from its previous iterations, but there is one crucial difference: This version is backed by several of Mr. Sanders’s rivals for the Democratic presidential nomination. Republicans are, by most appearances, thrilled — or at least relieved — to be running against Mr. Sanders and his plan, which would wipe out most private health insurance coverage, with prominent Republican politicians from President Trump on down taking repeated swipes at the idea. But rather than simply mocking him, Republicans should take a minute to learn from what he has accomplished, and how. You don’t have to support single payer — I certainly don’t — to see that Mr. Sanders has been remarkably successful as a policy entrepreneur. Working as an outsider over the course of a long political career, he has moved a sweeping and radical idea into the mainstream of Democratic policymaking. In doing so, he has modeled a certain kind of tenacious political salesmanship, using the Senate and his presidential campaigns as platforms to advance a major policy idea without initial backing from party leadership. Few if any legislators on the right are attempting anything comparable. And yet they could. The strategies Mr. Sanders employed would be available to any Republican or independent right-of-center politician inclined to use them. First, and most important, he had a clear vision, and he has tirelessly made the case for that vision and the benefits he believes it will provide: coverage for everyone, no premiums or co-payments, no maze of insurance paperwork to navigate. When Mr. Sanders talks about Medicare for All, he doesn’t treat it as a bureaucratic system, a complex piece of legislation to be explained. Instead, he is relentlessly focused on why he believes his ideas would improve the lives of ordinary voters. That persistence is another of Mr. Sanders’s strengths. The latest version of his Medicare for All legislation is the fifth iteration, a sign of his long-term commitment not only to the broad strokes of the idea but also to legislation that gives it shape and form. Building on the democratic socialist politics of his youth, he has been pushing for government-run universal coverage for years, even in the face of considerable resistance from the Democrats he has caucused with. That, too, accounts for some of his success: Mr. Sanders, probably the nation’s most successful independent politician, has not been afraid to oppose Democratic Party leadership or work outside of traditional partisan power structures. Instead, over the years, he has built his own base of political power, including the Congressional Progressive Caucus, a group for liberal legislators that he helped found and led in the 1990s. In the process, he has helped promote others who share his ideas and can echo and amplify his message — lawmakers like the co-chairwoman of the Progressive Caucus, Representative Pramila Jayapal, who recently introduced a single-payer plan that is, if anything, more far-reaching than Mr. Sanders’s. The radicalism of single payer has long been seen as a drawback, but Mr. Sanders has arguably used it to his advantage. Instead of pushing for incremental tweaks, he has forced a broad discussion about upending the nation’s entire health care system in one fell swoop. In fact, he has recently rejected some of the more incrementalist tweaks to Obamacare favored by party leadership. Mr. Sanders has paired his radicalism with transparency and a willingness, at least up to a point, to talk about some of the trade-offs his plan would require. He has been blunt about the fact that his plan would largely eliminate private insurance and has argued that this is both necessary and good. At the same time, he has left some of the most difficult policy questions open for discussion — in particular the problem of how to finance the significant increase in government spending that Medicare for all would entail. Here, his strategy seems to be to open the floor for discussion, allowing third parties to present various ideas, and then see which ones, if any, take hold. In the end, it may still not be enough. A full-fledged Sanders-style single payer system is almost certainly too disruptive, too fiscally burdensome, too big a political lift, at least for the foreseeable future. And Mr. Sanders’s brand of cantankerous democratic socialism would pose real risks if he was installed in the presidency, where he would be expected to manage and govern rather than simply campaign. Yet even in defeat, he is likely to come out ahead. Over the past several years, he has pushed Democrats in Congress and the progressive policy apparatus — think tanks, activist organizations, academic influencers — to think seriously about ways to move closer to his goal, laying the groundwork for a big health care push at the next opportunity. Democrats may not follow his exact plans, but the party is now chasing his vision. Mr. Sanders doesn’t deserve all the credit for Democrats’ leftward turn, but he was ready and waiting when it happened. And he has thus provided Republicans and others on the right with a model — not of policy design, but of legislative advocacy, of using the power of the Senate and a presidential campaign to build support for a major substantive idea. Republicans have, on occasion, pressed similarly to bring issues to the fore — think of Rand Paul’s opposition to federal surveillance policy. But there’s no Republican who has played a similar role on health care, and none who appears poised to do so. And any Republican lawmaker who wanted to do so would need to have a big idea, like, say, the conservative health analyst Avik Roy’s plan to restructure Medicare, or the Cato Institute health policy scholar Michael Cannon’s idea for large, tax-free health savings accounts. Instead, Republicans tend to work within the system, defer to leadership and duck difficult questions about trade-offs. Needless to say, there’s hardly a policy vision to guide them. But if Republicans want to become, as President Trump says, the “party of health care,” Mr. Sanders has demonstrated the sort of long-term, dogged effort it is likely to take. His single-payer plan may thus prove to be a gift to Republicans in more ways than one. Peter Suderman is the features editor at Reason. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported by The G.O.P. could really use a remarkably successful policy entrepreneur.  By Peter Suderman Mr. Suderman is the features editor at Reason. Last week, Bernie Sanders released the latest version of his “Medicare for all” plan, which would establish a federally run single-payer system to finance care for everyone in the United States. The plan has changed little from its previous iterations, but there is one crucial difference: This version is backed by several of Mr. Sanders’s rivals for the Democratic presidential nomination. Republicans are, by most appearances, thrilled — or at least relieved — to be running against Mr. Sanders and his plan, which would wipe out most private health insurance coverage, with prominent Republican politicians from President Trump on down taking repeated swipes at the idea. But rather than simply mocking him, Republicans should take a minute to learn from what he has accomplished, and how. You don’t have to support single payer — I certainly don’t — to see that Mr. Sanders has been remarkably successful as a policy entrepreneur. Working as an outsider over the course of a long political career, he has moved a sweeping and radical idea into the mainstream of Democratic policymaking. In doing so, he has modeled a certain kind of tenacious political salesmanship, using the Senate and his presidential campaigns as platforms to advance a major policy idea without initial backing from party leadership. Few if any legislators on the right are attempting anything comparable. And yet they could. The strategies Mr. Sanders employed would be available to any Republican or independent right-of-center politician inclined to use them. First, and most important, he had a clear vision, and he has tirelessly made the case for that vision and the benefits he believes it will provide: coverage for everyone, no premiums or co-payments, no maze of insurance paperwork to navigate. When Mr. Sanders talks about Medicare for All, he doesn’t treat it as a bureaucratic system, a complex piece of legislation to be explained. Instead, he is relentlessly focused on why he believes his ideas would improve the lives of ordinary voters. That persistence is another of Mr. Sanders’s strengths. The latest version of his Medicare for All legislation is the fifth iteration, a sign of his long-term commitment not only to the broad strokes of the idea but also to legislation that gives it shape and form. Building on the democratic socialist politics of his youth, he has been pushing for government-run universal coverage for years, even in the face of considerable resistance from the Democrats he has caucused with. That, too, accounts for some of his success: Mr. Sanders, probably the nation’s most successful independent politician, has not been afraid to oppose Democratic Party leadership or work outside of traditional partisan power structures. Instead, over the years, he has built his own base of political power, including the Congressional Progressive Caucus, a group for liberal legislators that he helped found and led in the 1990s. In the process, he has helped promote others who share his ideas and can echo and amplify his message — lawmakers like the co-chairwoman of the Progressive Caucus, Representative Pramila Jayapal, who recently introduced a single-payer plan that is, if anything, more far-reaching than Mr. Sanders’s. The radicalism of single payer has long been seen as a drawback, but Mr. Sanders has arguably used it to his advantage. Instead of pushing for incremental tweaks, he has forced a broad discussion about upending the nation’s entire health care system in one fell swoop. In fact, he has recently rejected some of the more incrementalist tweaks to Obamacare favored by party leadership. Mr. Sanders has paired his radicalism with transparency and a willingness, at least up to a point, to talk about some of the trade-offs his plan would require. He has been blunt about the fact that his plan would largely eliminate private insurance and has argued that this is both necessary and good. At the same time, he has left some of the most difficult policy questions open for discussion — in particular the problem of how to finance the significant increase in government spending that Medicare for all would entail. Here, his strategy seems to be to open the floor for discussion, allowing third parties to present various ideas, and then see which ones, if any, take hold. In the end, it may still not be enough. A full-fledged Sanders-style single payer system is almost certainly too disruptive, too fiscally burdensome, too big a political lift, at least for the foreseeable future. And Mr. Sanders’s brand of cantankerous democratic socialism would pose real risks if he was installed in the presidency, where he would be expected to manage and govern rather than simply campaign. Yet even in defeat, he is likely to come out ahead. Over the past several years, he has pushed Democrats in Congress and the progressive policy apparatus — think tanks, activist organizations, academic influencers — to think seriously about ways to move closer to his goal, laying the groundwork for a big health care push at the next opportunity. Democrats may not follow his exact plans, but the party is now chasing his vision. Mr. Sanders doesn’t deserve all the credit for Democrats’ leftward turn, but he was ready and waiting when it happened. And he has thus provided Republicans and others on the right with a model — not of policy design, but of legislative advocacy, of using the power of the Senate and a presidential campaign to build support for a major substantive idea. Republicans have, on occasion, pressed similarly to bring issues to the fore — think of Rand Paul’s opposition to federal surveillance policy. But there’s no Republican who has played a similar role on health care, and none who appears poised to do so. And any Republican lawmaker who wanted to do so would need to have a big idea, like, say, the conservative health analyst Avik Roy’s plan to restructure Medicare, or the Cato Institute health policy scholar Michael Cannon’s idea for large, tax-free health savings accounts. Instead, Republicans tend to work within the system, defer to leadership and duck difficult questions about trade-offs. Needless to say, there’s hardly a policy vision to guide them. But if Republicans want to become, as President Trump says, the “party of health care,” Mr. Sanders has demonstrated the sort of long-term, dogged effort it is likely to take. His single-payer plan may thus prove to be a gift to Republicans in more ways than one. Peter Suderman is the features editor at Reason. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Supported by By The Associated Press SPARTANBURG, S.C. — Democratic presidential candidate Bernie Sanders on Thursday announced endorsements from seven black lawmakers in the critical early voting state of South Carolina, a show of force in the first place where African American voters feature prominently in next year's primary elections. Sanders' 2020 campaign made the announcement just ahead of a Spartanburg town hall meeting with members of the state's Legislative Black Caucus. The backing represents the biggest number of black lawmakers to back a 2020 hopeful to date in this state, which holds the first primary in the South. The support is part of Sanders' attempt to turn things around in South Carolina, where his 47-point loss to Hillary Clinton in 2016 blunted the momentum generated in opening primary contests and exposed his weakness with black voters. Sensing the coming defeat, Sanders left South Carolina in the days leading up to the state's 2016 vote, campaigning instead in Midwestern states where he hoped to perform better. Sanders, a senator from Vermont, has taken a different approach this time, working to deepen ties with the black voters who comprise most of the Democratic primary electorate in the state and pledging to visit South Carolina much more frequently. Our Revolution, the organizing offshoot of Sanders' 2016 campaign, has an active branch in the state, holding regular meetings and conferences throughout the state. Sanders addressed the group last year. The campaign recently hired a state director and, according to adviser Jeff Weaver, is putting together a "much stronger team on the ground, much earlier in the process." Last month, Sanders made his first official 2020 campaign stop in this state, holding a rally at a black church in North Charleston. Attracting a mostly white crowd of more than 1,500 that night, Sanders recounted many of the efforts of his previous presidential campaign, noting that some of his ideas had since been adopted by the Democratic Party and supported by other candidates vying for the party's nomination. On Thursday, the pews of Mount Moriah Baptist Church were filled with a diverse crowd of several hundred as Sanders took to a lectern and addressed his ideas for criminal justice reform, issues that he said disproportionately affect the African American community. "We understand that we are just denting the surface," Sanders said, going on to discuss racial discrepancies in arrests for traffic violations and marijuana possession. "I think a new day is coming." Applauding Sanders' attention to the needs of the black community, Spartanburg Councilman Michael Brown reminded the crowd of Sanders' participation in the civil rights movement in the 1960s and encouraged him to stay the course in terms of his efforts to reach out to the black voters here. "Thank you, sir. Keep the conversation going," Brown said. "Remain unapologetic in what you have to say because your message is resonating in our community and throughout this land." The South Carolina lawmakers endorsing Sanders are state Reps. Wendell Gilliard, Cezar McKnight, Krystle Simmons, Ivory Thigpen and Shedron Williams. He's also being backed by state Reps. Terry Alexander and Justin Bamberg, both of whom backed Sanders in 2016 and served as national surrogates for his campaign. ___

Supported by By The Associated Press SPARTANBURG, S.C. — Democratic presidential candidate Bernie Sanders on Thursday announced endorsements from seven black lawmakers in the critical early voting state of South Carolina, a show of force in the first place where African American voters feature prominently in next year's primary elections. Sanders' 2020 campaign made the announcement just ahead of a Spartanburg town hall meeting with members of the state's Legislative Black Caucus. The backing represents the biggest number of black lawmakers to back a 2020 hopeful to date in this state, which holds the first primary in the South. The support is part of Sanders' attempt to turn things around in South Carolina, where his 47-point loss to Hillary Clinton in 2016 blunted the momentum generated in opening primary contests and exposed his weakness with black voters. Sensing the coming defeat, Sanders left South Carolina in the days leading up to the state's 2016 vote, campaigning instead in Midwestern states where he hoped to perform better. Sanders, a senator from Vermont, has taken a different approach this time, working to deepen ties with the black voters who comprise most of the Democratic primary electorate in the state and pledging to visit South Carolina much more frequently. Our Revolution, the organizing offshoot of Sanders' 2016 campaign, has an active branch in the state, holding regular meetings and conferences throughout the state. Sanders addressed the group last year. The campaign recently hired a state director and, according to adviser Jeff Weaver, is putting together a "much stronger team on the ground, much earlier in the process." Last month, Sanders made his first official 2020 campaign stop in this state, holding a rally at a black church in North Charleston. Attracting a mostly white crowd of more than 1,500 that night, Sanders recounted many of the efforts of his previous presidential campaign, noting that some of his ideas had since been adopted by the Democratic Party and supported by other candidates vying for the party's nomination. On Thursday, the pews of Mount Moriah Baptist Church were filled with a diverse crowd of several hundred as Sanders took to a lectern and addressed his ideas for criminal justice reform, issues that he said disproportionately affect the African American community. "We understand that we are just denting the surface," Sanders said, going on to discuss racial discrepancies in arrests for traffic violations and marijuana possession. "I think a new day is coming." Applauding Sanders' attention to the needs of the black community, Spartanburg Councilman Michael Brown reminded the crowd of Sanders' participation in the civil rights movement in the 1960s and encouraged him to stay the course in terms of his efforts to reach out to the black voters here. "Thank you, sir. Keep the conversation going," Brown said. "Remain unapologetic in what you have to say because your message is resonating in our community and throughout this land." The South Carolina lawmakers endorsing Sanders are state Reps. Wendell Gilliard, Cezar McKnight, Krystle Simmons, Ivory Thigpen and Shedron Williams. He's also being backed by state Reps. Terry Alexander and Justin Bamberg, both of whom backed Sanders in 2016 and served as national surrogates for his campaign. ___Supported by White House Memo By Annie Karni WASHINGTON — President Trump will have just wrapped up the first day of his summit meeting in Vietnam with Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader, when back home in Washington, Michael D. Cohen, his former lawyer and fixer, takes the stand on Wednesday morning to testify publicly against him before the House Oversight Committee. Two nearly simultaneous events and two very different story lines for Mr. Trump. One involves a leader he has assiduously courted and hopes will provide him with, at the minimum, an example of his ability to make peace with the United States’ adversaries. The other involves a former associate who has already detailed the president’s secrets to the special counsel and now will share some of them with the American public. The clashing narratives follow what has become a frustrating pattern for Mr. Trump in which some of his biggest moments on the international stage have been overtaken by events at home. Foreign trips mark critical moments for every president. But for a president in search of evidence to support his claims that he has strengthened the United States’ position in the world, they have not always been the successes he had hoped to portray. From his first foreign trip as president — to Saudi Arabia in 2017 — to his meeting last summer with Queen Elizabeth II, Mr. Trump has often found himself competing for coverage with some new and dramatic turn in the scandals that have consumed his administration. On that inaugural trip, Mr. Trump left the White House for Riyadh, the Saudi capital, just as The New York Times reported that he had admitted to Russians in an Oval Office meeting that firing the F.B.I. director, James B. Comey, took “great pressure” off him. The Washington Post then reported that a sitting White House official was under federal investigation for possibly colluding with the Russians during the 2016 presidential campaign. Mr. Trump was preparing to depart on a marathon five-country tour of Asia in November 2017 when the special counsel’s office made its first bombshell indictments, bringing charges against his former campaign manager, Paul Manafort, as well as two other campaign associates, Rick Gates and George Papadopoulos. The president was in Davos, Switzerland, when The Times reported that Mr. Trump had ordered the firing of the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, who is overseeing the Russia investigation, and had backed down only when the White House counsel threatened to resign. And an honor guard was giving Mr. Trump a royal salute at Windsor Castle in July when his deputy attorney general, Rod J. Rosenstein, announced the indictment of 12 Russian intelligence officers in the hacking of the Democratic National Committee and Hillary Clinton’s 2016 presidential campaign. For Mr. Trump, who is particularly concerned with winning news cycles, the summit meeting with Mr. Kim in Hanoi, Vietnam’s capital, that begins Wednesday is a major opportunity to change the subject from his losing fight with Democrats over funding for a wall along the southwestern border. But at 10 p.m. that day in Hanoi, the counternarrative will begin when Mr. Cohen starts his testimony before the House Oversight Committee about Mr. Trump’s alleged payoffs, financial disclosures, compliance with campaign finance laws and business matters. He is also expected to deliver raw, personal stories of his 10 years serving Mr. Trump. And this time, coverage of Mr. Trump’s trip abroad is not threatened to be subsumed by news reports, or by the findings of his own Justice Department, but by a Democrat-dominated congressional committee. White House officials said House Democrats were deliberately trying to step on the summit meeting. Rudolph W. Giuliani, Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer, said the overlapping events were no coincidence. “After all, they are politicians,” he said in a text. A spokesman for the committee chairman, Representative Elijah E. Cummings of Maryland, did not respond to multiple requests for comment about whether the scheduling of the hearing on the same day as the meeting was done intentionally. But Lanny J. Davis, a lawyer for Mr. Cohen, said the timing was unintentional. “These dates were developed over a long period of time, with lots of stops and starts and delays,” Mr. Davis said. “We had to worry about being attacked with Trump tweets. Trump set up the first reason for the delay.” The overlapping events, he added, were “the inevitable result of having chaos every day.” And, in fact, Mr. Cohen’s testimony was rescheduled, after he postponed it twice. White House officials played down any anxiety that Mr. Cohen’s testimony would steal the spotlight from Mr. Trump. One senior administration official described Mr. Cohen as a “convicted criminal who has already lied to Congress” and said that the clear headliner of the day would be a president who is “trying to undo 70 years of war and neglect.” There is also the question of which news outlets will interrupt coverage of the meeting between the president and Mr. Kim for Mr. Cohen’s hearing. Fox News has already touted an exclusive post-meeting interview with Mr. Trump, conducted by Sean Hannity, the cable news host, as part of its extensive coverage of the event. Other current and former White House officials said they saw a silver lining: The president tends to spend less time on Twitter when he is busy overseas, where he is less consumed by any developments pertaining to the open investigations. Mr. Cohen’s testimony, which might have had Mr. Trump glued to his television in the dining room off the Oval Office if he were home, they said, could pack less punch if he is busy with Mr. Kim. Still, even people who are not natural supporters of Mr. Trump said the timing of Mr. Cohen’s hearing was unfortunate, whether it was avoidable or not. “It’s not a desirable thing that the president goes abroad and, while he’s having an international summit, his former lawyer is testifying about the alleged crimes he’s committed,” said Benjamin Wittes, the editor in chief of Lawfare, and a friend of Mr. Comey’s. The pattern, some critics of the president said, is simply a product of the number of investigations involving Mr. Trump, which have overshadowed his work both at home and abroad. “When your campaign, your transition, your charity, your business, your White House and your inaugural committee are all under investigation, there are going to be a lot of new developments,” said Matthew Miller, a former spokesman for the Obama Justice Department. For now, the White House is trying to shrug off the overlap. “I don’t think the president has any concerns whatsoever about Michael Cohen,” Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said last week on “Fox & Friends.” “I think Michael Cohen may need to be concerned for himself, but that’s certainly something that’s not influencing or bothering us in this building.”

Supported by White House Memo By Annie Karni WASHINGTON — President Trump will have just wrapped up the first day of his summit meeting in Vietnam with Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader, when back home in Washington, Michael D. Cohen, his former lawyer and fixer, takes the stand on Wednesday morning to testify publicly against him before the House Oversight Committee. Two nearly simultaneous events and two very different story lines for Mr. Trump. One involves a leader he has assiduously courted and hopes will provide him with, at the minimum, an example of his ability to make peace with the United States’ adversaries. The other involves a former associate who has already detailed the president’s secrets to the special counsel and now will share some of them with the American public. The clashing narratives follow what has become a frustrating pattern for Mr. Trump in which some of his biggest moments on the international stage have been overtaken by events at home. Foreign trips mark critical moments for every president. But for a president in search of evidence to support his claims that he has strengthened the United States’ position in the world, they have not always been the successes he had hoped to portray. From his first foreign trip as president — to Saudi Arabia in 2017 — to his meeting last summer with Queen Elizabeth II, Mr. Trump has often found himself competing for coverage with some new and dramatic turn in the scandals that have consumed his administration. On that inaugural trip, Mr. Trump left the White House for Riyadh, the Saudi capital, just as The New York Times reported that he had admitted to Russians in an Oval Office meeting that firing the F.B.I. director, James B. Comey, took “great pressure” off him. The Washington Post then reported that a sitting White House official was under federal investigation for possibly colluding with the Russians during the 2016 presidential campaign. Mr. Trump was preparing to depart on a marathon five-country tour of Asia in November 2017 when the special counsel’s office made its first bombshell indictments, bringing charges against his former campaign manager, Paul Manafort, as well as two other campaign associates, Rick Gates and George Papadopoulos. The president was in Davos, Switzerland, when The Times reported that Mr. Trump had ordered the firing of the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, who is overseeing the Russia investigation, and had backed down only when the White House counsel threatened to resign. And an honor guard was giving Mr. Trump a royal salute at Windsor Castle in July when his deputy attorney general, Rod J. Rosenstein, announced the indictment of 12 Russian intelligence officers in the hacking of the Democratic National Committee and Hillary Clinton’s 2016 presidential campaign. For Mr. Trump, who is particularly concerned with winning news cycles, the summit meeting with Mr. Kim in Hanoi, Vietnam’s capital, that begins Wednesday is a major opportunity to change the subject from his losing fight with Democrats over funding for a wall along the southwestern border. But at 10 p.m. that day in Hanoi, the counternarrative will begin when Mr. Cohen starts his testimony before the House Oversight Committee about Mr. Trump’s alleged payoffs, financial disclosures, compliance with campaign finance laws and business matters. He is also expected to deliver raw, personal stories of his 10 years serving Mr. Trump. And this time, coverage of Mr. Trump’s trip abroad is not threatened to be subsumed by news reports, or by the findings of his own Justice Department, but by a Democrat-dominated congressional committee. White House officials said House Democrats were deliberately trying to step on the summit meeting. Rudolph W. Giuliani, Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer, said the overlapping events were no coincidence. “After all, they are politicians,” he said in a text. A spokesman for the committee chairman, Representative Elijah E. Cummings of Maryland, did not respond to multiple requests for comment about whether the scheduling of the hearing on the same day as the meeting was done intentionally. But Lanny J. Davis, a lawyer for Mr. Cohen, said the timing was unintentional. “These dates were developed over a long period of time, with lots of stops and starts and delays,” Mr. Davis said. “We had to worry about being attacked with Trump tweets. Trump set up the first reason for the delay.” The overlapping events, he added, were “the inevitable result of having chaos every day.” And, in fact, Mr. Cohen’s testimony was rescheduled, after he postponed it twice. White House officials played down any anxiety that Mr. Cohen’s testimony would steal the spotlight from Mr. Trump. One senior administration official described Mr. Cohen as a “convicted criminal who has already lied to Congress” and said that the clear headliner of the day would be a president who is “trying to undo 70 years of war and neglect.” There is also the question of which news outlets will interrupt coverage of the meeting between the president and Mr. Kim for Mr. Cohen’s hearing. Fox News has already touted an exclusive post-meeting interview with Mr. Trump, conducted by Sean Hannity, the cable news host, as part of its extensive coverage of the event. Other current and former White House officials said they saw a silver lining: The president tends to spend less time on Twitter when he is busy overseas, where he is less consumed by any developments pertaining to the open investigations. Mr. Cohen’s testimony, which might have had Mr. Trump glued to his television in the dining room off the Oval Office if he were home, they said, could pack less punch if he is busy with Mr. Kim. Still, even people who are not natural supporters of Mr. Trump said the timing of Mr. Cohen’s hearing was unfortunate, whether it was avoidable or not. “It’s not a desirable thing that the president goes abroad and, while he’s having an international summit, his former lawyer is testifying about the alleged crimes he’s committed,” said Benjamin Wittes, the editor in chief of Lawfare, and a friend of Mr. Comey’s. The pattern, some critics of the president said, is simply a product of the number of investigations involving Mr. Trump, which have overshadowed his work both at home and abroad. “When your campaign, your transition, your charity, your business, your White House and your inaugural committee are all under investigation, there are going to be a lot of new developments,” said Matthew Miller, a former spokesman for the Obama Justice Department. For now, the White House is trying to shrug off the overlap. “I don’t think the president has any concerns whatsoever about Michael Cohen,” Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said last week on “Fox & Friends.” “I think Michael Cohen may need to be concerned for himself, but that’s certainly something that’s not influencing or bothering us in this building.”Supported by letters The report’s release left readers with many questions and concerns. To the Editor: As much as so many people wanted to see the Mueller report show clear evidence of criminal activity on the part of President Trump and others, it appears that it hasn’t. The obsession of so many in the media, in Congress and in other places to find criminal behavior within the report’s 400-plus pages actually plays into Mr. Trump’s and his supporters’ hands. The reality is that stupidity, bad judgment, narcissism, lack of integrity and immoral or amoral behaviors aren’t crimes. But they aren’t the characteristics we want or need from our leaders. And this is what we should be focusing on.  The fastest path to removing Mr. Trump from office is through elections and not through finding criminal misconduct. Let’s not continue with our obsession with finding criminal behavior, though it probably exists, but rather focus on getting responsible leadership back to our nation. Let’s let him reinforce his lack of fitness as a leader, making sure more people understand and refuse to accept this. Anything else is meaningless activity. Dave BrockLaguna Beach, Calif. To the Editor: Attorney General William Barr again emphasizes that there was “no collusion” with Russia, as he did in his whitewashed four-page summary of Robert Mueller’s report. If that’s the case, would the attorney general, President Trump or anybody who knows the facts please explain why so many Trump campaign officials, advisers, family members and high-level appointees had so many contacts with so many Russians, and then in many cases lied about these contacts under oath? And he says there was no obstruction. If that’s the case, why did the president remove so many senior Justice Department and F.B.I. officials who were involved in the Russia investigation? Why did he fire James Comey as F.B.I. director? And why did he craft the finely worded and completely misleading press release about the Trump Tower meeting his son had with Russian operatives? That’s what the American public needs to know. Why?  Daniel FinkBeverly Hills, Calif. To the Editor: Now that the Mueller report has been released, the devil — or in this case, the obstruction of justice — is truly in the details. The chasm between the actual report and the attorney general’s four-page summary is breathtaking in terms of how the summary elides the specifics of President Trump’s repeated efforts to stymie the probe into efforts to cover up the investigation into Russian collusion.  Further, the more one reads of the report, the clearer it becomes that Congress must pick up where the special counsel’s limited-in-scope investigation left off to once and for all get to the bottom of just how utterly tainted this presidency is. Mark GodesChelsea, Mass. To the Editor: Let us not forget that the intelligence community knew of interference in the presidential campaign by the Russians during the summer of 2016. Once elected with this foreign assistance, President Trump should have insisted on shoring up our security against future incursions by Russian malefactors. Instead, he began to obstruct, deny, obfuscate and lash out at his critics. Not the actions of an innocent man, and certainly not what a legitimately elected president does to protect his country. Donna MastrandreaNew York To the Editor:  After watching the news conference by Attorney General William Barr, all I can think of is … are you kidding me? Really, Mr. Barr? Really? Am I the only person who thinks that his statement sounded just like the tweets that President Trump has been sending all morning (“No Collusion — No Obstruction!”)? I am so appalled that the attorney general allowed Mr. Trump to use him as a personal messenger. As an American, I feel betrayed and disrespected by our attorney general. Marielys Camacho-ReyesHaines City, Fla.

Supported by letters The report’s release left readers with many questions and concerns. To the Editor: As much as so many people wanted to see the Mueller report show clear evidence of criminal activity on the part of President Trump and others, it appears that it hasn’t. The obsession of so many in the media, in Congress and in other places to find criminal behavior within the report’s 400-plus pages actually plays into Mr. Trump’s and his supporters’ hands. The reality is that stupidity, bad judgment, narcissism, lack of integrity and immoral or amoral behaviors aren’t crimes. But they aren’t the characteristics we want or need from our leaders. And this is what we should be focusing on.  The fastest path to removing Mr. Trump from office is through elections and not through finding criminal misconduct. Let’s not continue with our obsession with finding criminal behavior, though it probably exists, but rather focus on getting responsible leadership back to our nation. Let’s let him reinforce his lack of fitness as a leader, making sure more people understand and refuse to accept this. Anything else is meaningless activity. Dave BrockLaguna Beach, Calif. To the Editor: Attorney General William Barr again emphasizes that there was “no collusion” with Russia, as he did in his whitewashed four-page summary of Robert Mueller’s report. If that’s the case, would the attorney general, President Trump or anybody who knows the facts please explain why so many Trump campaign officials, advisers, family members and high-level appointees had so many contacts with so many Russians, and then in many cases lied about these contacts under oath? And he says there was no obstruction. If that’s the case, why did the president remove so many senior Justice Department and F.B.I. officials who were involved in the Russia investigation? Why did he fire James Comey as F.B.I. director? And why did he craft the finely worded and completely misleading press release about the Trump Tower meeting his son had with Russian operatives? That’s what the American public needs to know. Why?  Daniel FinkBeverly Hills, Calif. To the Editor: Now that the Mueller report has been released, the devil — or in this case, the obstruction of justice — is truly in the details. The chasm between the actual report and the attorney general’s four-page summary is breathtaking in terms of how the summary elides the specifics of President Trump’s repeated efforts to stymie the probe into efforts to cover up the investigation into Russian collusion.  Further, the more one reads of the report, the clearer it becomes that Congress must pick up where the special counsel’s limited-in-scope investigation left off to once and for all get to the bottom of just how utterly tainted this presidency is. Mark GodesChelsea, Mass. To the Editor: Let us not forget that the intelligence community knew of interference in the presidential campaign by the Russians during the summer of 2016. Once elected with this foreign assistance, President Trump should have insisted on shoring up our security against future incursions by Russian malefactors. Instead, he began to obstruct, deny, obfuscate and lash out at his critics. Not the actions of an innocent man, and certainly not what a legitimately elected president does to protect his country. Donna MastrandreaNew York To the Editor:  After watching the news conference by Attorney General William Barr, all I can think of is … are you kidding me? Really, Mr. Barr? Really? Am I the only person who thinks that his statement sounded just like the tweets that President Trump has been sending all morning (“No Collusion — No Obstruction!”)? I am so appalled that the attorney general allowed Mr. Trump to use him as a personal messenger. As an American, I feel betrayed and disrespected by our attorney general. Marielys Camacho-ReyesHaines City, Fla.Supported by letters Readers discuss if and how gender bias and stereotypes play a role in politics, citing past presidential races.  To the Editor: Re “How Sexism Plays Out on the Campaign Trail” (front page, Feb. 12): The notion that voters’ preference for “likable” women reinforces gender biases overlooks a whole lot of presidential history. For instance, Reagan (nice guy — wins) was more likable than Mondale (wonk — lost). Bush #2 (a guy to have a beer with) was more likable than Kerry (dull — lost). Likability has clearly has been a factor in several past elections. So the issue is not one of sexism, as the article suggests. In addition, the article ignores the fact that Hillary Clinton, the “unlikable” female candidate, actually won the popular vote, getting more votes than the man. Maybe some biases aren’t gender-based after all. Gerry RingOld Bethpage, N.Y.  To the Editor: According to research cited in your article, male political candidates who defy gender stereotypes are not penalized, unlike women candidates who emphasize stereotypically masculine qualities. Not true.  Look at the failed 1972 presidential campaign of Senator Edmund S. Muskie, who displayed his emotional side (some observers said he shed tears at a news conference) defending his wife from charges by a conservative New Hampshire newspaper publisher that she was “unladylike” — a gender-bender double whammy! Wags questioned if Mr. Muskie had the strength to serve as the nation’s commander in chief. Eventually, he dropped out of the race. And Michael Dukakis may have lost support during his 1988 presidential race against George H.W. Bush because he was considered weak in his response to a debate question about whether he would support the death penalty if his wife were raped and murdered. Pender M. McCarterWashington To the Editor: People have many reasons they are for or against a candidate. Gender is just one of that huge array. If women want to be equal, it is time they stop claiming that anything negative that happens is because of sexism. If they stop acting so overly accusatory and overly sensitive, they will learn that being criticized is part of life, no matter your gender. Frayda LevinMountain Lakes, N.J. To the Editor: Please take a look in the mirror when asking about why there is sexism. When focusing on these candidates’ gender on the front page, you only underscore and validate the concerns of those who question a woman’s suitability for elected office. If there’s anything our current president has taught us, it’s that repeating words often enough tends to make an idea concrete — whether or not it is true or even has any basis in reality. Give us information about the candidates that is useful as we make choices at the polls, such as where they stand on issues and their experience. Leave the rhetoric, hand-wringing and spinning to the pundits. Ellen B. ClarkGlenview, Ill.

Supported by letters Readers discuss if and how gender bias and stereotypes play a role in politics, citing past presidential races.  To the Editor: Re “How Sexism Plays Out on the Campaign Trail” (front page, Feb. 12): The notion that voters’ preference for “likable” women reinforces gender biases overlooks a whole lot of presidential history. For instance, Reagan (nice guy — wins) was more likable than Mondale (wonk — lost). Bush #2 (a guy to have a beer with) was more likable than Kerry (dull — lost). Likability has clearly has been a factor in several past elections. So the issue is not one of sexism, as the article suggests. In addition, the article ignores the fact that Hillary Clinton, the “unlikable” female candidate, actually won the popular vote, getting more votes than the man. Maybe some biases aren’t gender-based after all. Gerry RingOld Bethpage, N.Y.  To the Editor: According to research cited in your article, male political candidates who defy gender stereotypes are not penalized, unlike women candidates who emphasize stereotypically masculine qualities. Not true.  Look at the failed 1972 presidential campaign of Senator Edmund S. Muskie, who displayed his emotional side (some observers said he shed tears at a news conference) defending his wife from charges by a conservative New Hampshire newspaper publisher that she was “unladylike” — a gender-bender double whammy! Wags questioned if Mr. Muskie had the strength to serve as the nation’s commander in chief. Eventually, he dropped out of the race. And Michael Dukakis may have lost support during his 1988 presidential race against George H.W. Bush because he was considered weak in his response to a debate question about whether he would support the death penalty if his wife were raped and murdered. Pender M. McCarterWashington To the Editor: People have many reasons they are for or against a candidate. Gender is just one of that huge array. If women want to be equal, it is time they stop claiming that anything negative that happens is because of sexism. If they stop acting so overly accusatory and overly sensitive, they will learn that being criticized is part of life, no matter your gender. Frayda LevinMountain Lakes, N.J. To the Editor: Please take a look in the mirror when asking about why there is sexism. When focusing on these candidates’ gender on the front page, you only underscore and validate the concerns of those who question a woman’s suitability for elected office. If there’s anything our current president has taught us, it’s that repeating words often enough tends to make an idea concrete — whether or not it is true or even has any basis in reality. Give us information about the candidates that is useful as we make choices at the polls, such as where they stand on issues and their experience. Leave the rhetoric, hand-wringing and spinning to the pundits. Ellen B. ClarkGlenview, Ill.Supported by By Michael D. Shear and Maggie Haberman WASHINGTON — Linda E. McMahon, one of five women in President Trump’s cabinet and the former chief executive of World Wrestling Entertainment, stepped down on Friday as the head of the Small Business Administration, the White House announced. One of Mr. Trump’s most prolific donors during the 2016 presidential campaign, Ms. McMahon joined the administration early in Mr. Trump’s term and avoided the kinds of scandals and high-profile attention that many of her cabinet colleagues endured during the last two years. With Ms. McMahon by his side at his Mar-a-Lago estate, Mr. Trump praised her as a “superstar” who had done much to improve the operation of the Small Business Administration. “She’s been one of our all-time favorites,” the president told reporters. “Just so smooth. She has helped so many people in the world of small business.” In recent weeks, Ms. McMahon was thought to be a contender to replace Wilbur Ross, the commerce secretary, once he departs the government. In a statement, Ms. McMahon said that she was proud of the work she had done in government. Since President Trump’s inauguration, White House staffers and cabinet officials have left in firings and resignations, one after the other. “The focus that we have put on supporting women entrepreneurship, veteran businesses and rural development has been particularly rewarding for me,” she said in the statement put out by the Small Business Administration. A business executive who turned her attention to politics later in life, Ms. McMahon ran unsuccessfully for the United States Senate in Connecticut in 2010 and again in 2012. Her expected departure from the administration was first reported by Politico. But it was her connection to Mr. Trump that finally brought her into the elite ranks of the government. When he nominated her in 2016, Mr. Trump cited her business experience. “Linda has a tremendous background and is widely recognized as one of the country’s top female executives advising businesses around the globe,” Mr. Trump said at the time. “She helped grow W.W.E. from a modest 13-person operation to a publicly traded global enterprise with more than 800 employees in offices worldwide.” As the agency’s administrator, Ms. McMahon earned the respect of some Democrats, who praised her for expanding loans to women and for working to improve the efficiency of the agency. People familiar with Ms. McMahon’s thinking said she was expected to take a position at the America First PAC, the political action committee supporting Mr. Trump’s re-election. She is expected to help the organization raise money. Ms. McMahon was approached weeks ago as a possible official at the political action committee. She is able to raise money and is trusted by donors who want to know she is close to Mr. Trump, people familiar with the appointment said. An earlier version of this article incorrectly named the political action committee that Ms. McMahon is expected to join. It is the America First PAC, not the Great America PAC. Michael D. Shear reported from Washington, and Maggie Haberman from New York. Annie Karni contributed reporting from Washington. 

Supported by By Michael D. Shear and Maggie Haberman WASHINGTON — Linda E. McMahon, one of five women in President Trump’s cabinet and the former chief executive of World Wrestling Entertainment, stepped down on Friday as the head of the Small Business Administration, the White House announced. One of Mr. Trump’s most prolific donors during the 2016 presidential campaign, Ms. McMahon joined the administration early in Mr. Trump’s term and avoided the kinds of scandals and high-profile attention that many of her cabinet colleagues endured during the last two years. With Ms. McMahon by his side at his Mar-a-Lago estate, Mr. Trump praised her as a “superstar” who had done much to improve the operation of the Small Business Administration. “She’s been one of our all-time favorites,” the president told reporters. “Just so smooth. She has helped so many people in the world of small business.” In recent weeks, Ms. McMahon was thought to be a contender to replace Wilbur Ross, the commerce secretary, once he departs the government. In a statement, Ms. McMahon said that she was proud of the work she had done in government. Since President Trump’s inauguration, White House staffers and cabinet officials have left in firings and resignations, one after the other. “The focus that we have put on supporting women entrepreneurship, veteran businesses and rural development has been particularly rewarding for me,” she said in the statement put out by the Small Business Administration. A business executive who turned her attention to politics later in life, Ms. McMahon ran unsuccessfully for the United States Senate in Connecticut in 2010 and again in 2012. Her expected departure from the administration was first reported by Politico. But it was her connection to Mr. Trump that finally brought her into the elite ranks of the government. When he nominated her in 2016, Mr. Trump cited her business experience. “Linda has a tremendous background and is widely recognized as one of the country’s top female executives advising businesses around the globe,” Mr. Trump said at the time. “She helped grow W.W.E. from a modest 13-person operation to a publicly traded global enterprise with more than 800 employees in offices worldwide.” As the agency’s administrator, Ms. McMahon earned the respect of some Democrats, who praised her for expanding loans to women and for working to improve the efficiency of the agency. People familiar with Ms. McMahon’s thinking said she was expected to take a position at the America First PAC, the political action committee supporting Mr. Trump’s re-election. She is expected to help the organization raise money. Ms. McMahon was approached weeks ago as a possible official at the political action committee. She is able to raise money and is trusted by donors who want to know she is close to Mr. Trump, people familiar with the appointment said. An earlier version of this article incorrectly named the political action committee that Ms. McMahon is expected to join. It is the America First PAC, not the Great America PAC. Michael D. Shear reported from Washington, and Maggie Haberman from New York. Annie Karni contributed reporting from Washington. Supported by Attorney General William P. Barr addressed journalists on Thursday ahead of the release of a redacted version of the report by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III. The following are Mr. Barr’s prepared remarks, as released by the Justice Department. [Follow our live briefing for major updates and analysis throughout the day.] _____________ ATTORNEY GENERAL WILLIAM P. BARR: Good Morning. Thank you all for being here today. On March 22, 2019, Special Counsel Robert Mueller concluded his investigation of matters related to Russian attempts to interfere in the 2016 presidential election and submitted his confidential report to me pursuant to Department of Justice regulations. As I said during my Senate confirmation hearing and since, I am committed to ensuring the greatest possible degree of transparency concerning the Special Counsel’s investigation, consistent with the law. At 11:00 this morning, I will transmit copies of a public version of the Special Counsel’s report to the Chairmen and Ranking Members of the House and Senate Judiciary Committees. The Department of Justice will also make the report available to the American public by posting it on the Department’s website after it has been delivered to Congress. I would like to offer a few comments today on the report. But before I do that, I want to thank Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein for joining me here today and for his assistance and counsel throughout this process. Rod has served the Department of Justice for many years with dedication and distinction, and it has been a great privilege and pleasure to work with him since my confirmation. He had well-deserved plans to step back from public service that I interrupted by asking him to help in my transition. Rod has been an invaluable partner, and I am grateful that he was willing to help me and has been able to see the Special Counsel’s investigation to its conclusion. Thank you, Rod. I would also like to thank Special Counsel Mueller for his service and the thoroughness of his investigation, particularly his work exposing the nature of Russia’s attempts to interfere in our electoral process. As you know, one of the primary purposes of the Special Counsel’s investigation was to determine whether members of the presidential campaign of Donald J. Trump, or any individuals associated with that campaign, conspired or coordinated with the Russian government to interfere in the 2016 election. Volume I of the Special Counsel’s report describes the results of that investigation. As you will see, the Special Counsel’s report states that his “investigation did not establish that members of the Trump Campaign conspired or coordinated with the Russian government in its election interference activities.” I am sure that all Americans share my concerns about the efforts of the Russian government to interfere in our presidential election. As the Special Counsel’s report makes clear, the Russian government sought to interfere in our election. But thanks to the Special Counsel’s thorough investigation, we now know that the Russian operatives who perpetrated these schemes did not have the cooperation of President Trump or the Trump campaign – or the knowing assistance of any other Americans for that matter. That is something that all Americans can and should be grateful to have confirmed. The Special Counsel’s report outlines two main efforts by the Russian government to influence the 2016 election: First, the report details efforts by the Internet Research Agency, a Russian company with close ties to the Russian government, to sow social discord among American voters through disinformation and social media operations. Following a thorough investigation of this disinformation campaign, the Special Counsel brought charges in federal court against several Russian nationals and entities for their respective roles in this scheme. Those charges remain pending, and the individual defendants remain at large. But the Special Counsel found no evidence that any Americans – including anyone associated with the Trump campaign – conspired or coordinated with the Russian government or the IRA in carrying out this illegal scheme. Indeed, as the report states, “[t]he investigation did not identify evidence that any U.S. persons knowingly or intentionally coordinated with the IRA’s interference operation.” Put another way, the Special Counsel found no “collusion” by any Americans in the IRA’s illegal activity. Second, the report details efforts by Russian military officials associated with the GRU to hack into computers and steal documents and emails from individuals affiliated with the Democratic Party and the presidential campaign of Hillary Rodham Clinton for the purpose of eventually publicizing those emails. Obtaining such unauthorized access into computers is a federal crime. Following a thorough investigation of these hacking operations, the Special Counsel brought charges in federal court against several Russian military officers for their respective roles in these illegal hacking activities. Those charges are still pending and the defendants remain at large. But again, the Special Counsel’s report did not find any evidence that members of the Trump campaign or anyone associated with the campaign conspired or coordinated with the Russian government in its hacking operations. In other words, there was no evidence of Trump campaign “collusion” with the Russian government’s hacking. The Special Counsel’s investigation also examined Russian efforts to publish stolen emails and documents on the internet. The Special Counsel found that, after the GRU disseminated some of the stolen materials through its own controlled entities, DCLeaks and Guccifer 2.0, the GRU transferred some of the stolen materials to Wikileaks for publication. Wikileaks then made a series of document dumps. The Special Counsel also investigated whether any member or affiliate of the Trump campaign encouraged or otherwise played a role in these dissemination efforts. Under applicable law, publication of these types of materials would not be criminal unless the publisher also participated in the underlying hacking conspiracy. Here too, the Special Counsel’s report did not find that any person associated with the Trump campaign illegally participated in the dissemination of the materials. Finally, the Special Counsel investigated a number of “links” or “contacts” between Trump Campaign officials and individuals connected with the Russian government during the 2016 presidential campaign. After reviewing those contacts, the Special Counsel did not find any conspiracy to violate U.S. law involving Russia-linked persons and any persons associated with the Trump campaign. So that is the bottom line. After nearly two years of investigation, thousands of subpoenas, and hundreds of warrants and witness interviews, the Special Counsel confirmed that the Russian government sponsored efforts to illegally interfere with the 2016 presidential election but did not find that the Trump campaign or other Americans colluded in those schemes. After finding no underlying collusion with Russia, the Special Counsel’s report goes on to consider whether certain actions of the President could amount to obstruction of the Special Counsel’s investigation. As I addressed in my March 24th letter, the Special Counsel did not make a traditional prosecutorial judgment regarding this allegation. Instead, the report recounts ten episodes involving the President and discusses potential legal theories for connecting these actions to elements of an obstruction offense. After carefully reviewing the facts and legal theories outlined in the report, and in consultation with the Office of Legal Counsel and other Department lawyers, the Deputy Attorney General and I concluded that the evidence developed by the Special Counsel is not sufficient to establish that the President committed an obstruction-of-justice offense. Although the Deputy Attorney General and I disagreed with some of the Special Counsel’s legal theories and felt that some of the episodes examined did not amount to obstruction as a matter of law, we did not rely solely on that in making our decision. Instead, we accepted the Special Counsel’s legal framework for purposes of our analysis and evaluated the evidence as presented by the Special Counsel in reaching our conclusion. In assessing the President’s actions discussed in the report, it is important to bear in mind the context. President Trump faced an unprecedented situation. As he entered into office, and sought to perform his responsibilities as President, federal agents and prosecutors were scrutinizing his conduct before and after taking office, and the conduct of some of his associates. At the same time, there was relentless speculation in the news media about the President’s personal culpability. Yet, as he said from the beginning, there was in fact no collusion. And as the Special Counsel’s report acknowledges, there is substantial evidence to show that the President was frustrated and angered by a sincere belief that the investigation was undermining his presidency, propelled by his political opponents, and fueled by illegal leaks. Nonetheless, the White House fully cooperated with the Special Counsel’s investigation, providing unfettered access to campaign and White House documents, directing senior aides to testify freely, and asserting no privilege claims. And at the same time, the President took no act that in fact deprived the Special Counsel of the documents and witnesses necessary to complete his investigation. Apart from whether the acts were obstructive, this evidence of non-corrupt motives weighs heavily against any allegation that the President had a corrupt intent to obstruct the investigation. Now, before I take questions, I want to address a few aspects of the process for producing the public report that I am releasing today. As I said several times, the report contains limited redactions relating to four categories of information. To ensure as much transparency as possible, these redactions have been clearly labelled and color-coded so that readers can tell which redactions correspond to which categories. As you will see, most of the redactions were compelled by the need to prevent harm to ongoing matters and to comply with court orders prohibiting the public disclosure of information bearing upon ongoing investigations and criminal cases, such as the IRA case and the Roger Stone case. These redactions were applied by Department of Justice attorneys working closely together with attorneys from the Special Counsel’s Office, as well as with the intelligence community, and prosecutors who are handling ongoing cases. The redactions are their work product. Consistent with long-standing Executive Branch practice, the decision whether to assert Executive privilege over any portion of the report rested with the President of the United States. Because the White House voluntarily cooperated with the Special Counsel’s investigation, significant portions of the report contain material over which the President could have asserted privilege. And he would have been well within his rights to do so. Following my March 29th letter, the Office of the White House Counsel requested the opportunity to review the redacted version of the report in order to advise the President on the potential invocation of privilege, which is consistent with long-standing practice. Following that review, the President confirmed that, in the interests of transparency and full disclosure to the American people, he would not assert privilege over the Special Counsel’s report. Accordingly, the public report I am releasing today contains redactions only for the four categories that I previously outlined, and no material has been redacted based on executive privilege. In addition, earlier this week, the President’s personal counsel requested and were given the opportunity to read a final version of the redacted report before it was publicly released. That request was consistent with the practice followed under the Ethics in Government Act, which permitted individuals named in a report prepared by an Independent Counsel the opportunity to read the report before publication. The President’s personal lawyers were not permitted to make, and did not request, any redactions. In addition to making the redacted report public, we are also committed to working with Congress to accommodate their legitimate oversight interests with respect to the Special Counsel’s investigation. We have been consulting with Chairman Graham and Chairman Nadler throughout this process, and we will continue to do so. Given the limited nature of the redactions, I believe that the publicly released report will allow every American to understand the results of the Special Counsel’s investigation. Nevertheless, in an effort to accommodate congressional requests, we will make available to a bipartisan group of leaders from several Congressional committees a version of the report with all redactions removed except those relating to grand-jury information. Thus, these members of Congress will be able to see all of the redacted material for themselves – with the limited exception of that which, by law, cannot be shared. I believe that this accommodation, together with my upcoming testimony before the Senate and House Judiciary Committees, will satisfy any need Congress has for information regarding the Special Counsel’s investigation. Once again, I would like to thank you all for being here today. I now have a few minutes for questions.    

Supported by Attorney General William P. Barr addressed journalists on Thursday ahead of the release of a redacted version of the report by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III. The following are Mr. Barr’s prepared remarks, as released by the Justice Department. [Follow our live briefing for major updates and analysis throughout the day.] _____________ ATTORNEY GENERAL WILLIAM P. BARR: Good Morning. Thank you all for being here today. On March 22, 2019, Special Counsel Robert Mueller concluded his investigation of matters related to Russian attempts to interfere in the 2016 presidential election and submitted his confidential report to me pursuant to Department of Justice regulations. As I said during my Senate confirmation hearing and since, I am committed to ensuring the greatest possible degree of transparency concerning the Special Counsel’s investigation, consistent with the law. At 11:00 this morning, I will transmit copies of a public version of the Special Counsel’s report to the Chairmen and Ranking Members of the House and Senate Judiciary Committees. The Department of Justice will also make the report available to the American public by posting it on the Department’s website after it has been delivered to Congress. I would like to offer a few comments today on the report. But before I do that, I want to thank Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein for joining me here today and for his assistance and counsel throughout this process. Rod has served the Department of Justice for many years with dedication and distinction, and it has been a great privilege and pleasure to work with him since my confirmation. He had well-deserved plans to step back from public service that I interrupted by asking him to help in my transition. Rod has been an invaluable partner, and I am grateful that he was willing to help me and has been able to see the Special Counsel’s investigation to its conclusion. Thank you, Rod. I would also like to thank Special Counsel Mueller for his service and the thoroughness of his investigation, particularly his work exposing the nature of Russia’s attempts to interfere in our electoral process. As you know, one of the primary purposes of the Special Counsel’s investigation was to determine whether members of the presidential campaign of Donald J. Trump, or any individuals associated with that campaign, conspired or coordinated with the Russian government to interfere in the 2016 election. Volume I of the Special Counsel’s report describes the results of that investigation. As you will see, the Special Counsel’s report states that his “investigation did not establish that members of the Trump Campaign conspired or coordinated with the Russian government in its election interference activities.” I am sure that all Americans share my concerns about the efforts of the Russian government to interfere in our presidential election. As the Special Counsel’s report makes clear, the Russian government sought to interfere in our election. But thanks to the Special Counsel’s thorough investigation, we now know that the Russian operatives who perpetrated these schemes did not have the cooperation of President Trump or the Trump campaign – or the knowing assistance of any other Americans for that matter. That is something that all Americans can and should be grateful to have confirmed. The Special Counsel’s report outlines two main efforts by the Russian government to influence the 2016 election: First, the report details efforts by the Internet Research Agency, a Russian company with close ties to the Russian government, to sow social discord among American voters through disinformation and social media operations. Following a thorough investigation of this disinformation campaign, the Special Counsel brought charges in federal court against several Russian nationals and entities for their respective roles in this scheme. Those charges remain pending, and the individual defendants remain at large. But the Special Counsel found no evidence that any Americans – including anyone associated with the Trump campaign – conspired or coordinated with the Russian government or the IRA in carrying out this illegal scheme. Indeed, as the report states, “[t]he investigation did not identify evidence that any U.S. persons knowingly or intentionally coordinated with the IRA’s interference operation.” Put another way, the Special Counsel found no “collusion” by any Americans in the IRA’s illegal activity. Second, the report details efforts by Russian military officials associated with the GRU to hack into computers and steal documents and emails from individuals affiliated with the Democratic Party and the presidential campaign of Hillary Rodham Clinton for the purpose of eventually publicizing those emails. Obtaining such unauthorized access into computers is a federal crime. Following a thorough investigation of these hacking operations, the Special Counsel brought charges in federal court against several Russian military officers for their respective roles in these illegal hacking activities. Those charges are still pending and the defendants remain at large. But again, the Special Counsel’s report did not find any evidence that members of the Trump campaign or anyone associated with the campaign conspired or coordinated with the Russian government in its hacking operations. In other words, there was no evidence of Trump campaign “collusion” with the Russian government’s hacking. The Special Counsel’s investigation also examined Russian efforts to publish stolen emails and documents on the internet. The Special Counsel found that, after the GRU disseminated some of the stolen materials through its own controlled entities, DCLeaks and Guccifer 2.0, the GRU transferred some of the stolen materials to Wikileaks for publication. Wikileaks then made a series of document dumps. The Special Counsel also investigated whether any member or affiliate of the Trump campaign encouraged or otherwise played a role in these dissemination efforts. Under applicable law, publication of these types of materials would not be criminal unless the publisher also participated in the underlying hacking conspiracy. Here too, the Special Counsel’s report did not find that any person associated with the Trump campaign illegally participated in the dissemination of the materials. Finally, the Special Counsel investigated a number of “links” or “contacts” between Trump Campaign officials and individuals connected with the Russian government during the 2016 presidential campaign. After reviewing those contacts, the Special Counsel did not find any conspiracy to violate U.S. law involving Russia-linked persons and any persons associated with the Trump campaign. So that is the bottom line. After nearly two years of investigation, thousands of subpoenas, and hundreds of warrants and witness interviews, the Special Counsel confirmed that the Russian government sponsored efforts to illegally interfere with the 2016 presidential election but did not find that the Trump campaign or other Americans colluded in those schemes. After finding no underlying collusion with Russia, the Special Counsel’s report goes on to consider whether certain actions of the President could amount to obstruction of the Special Counsel’s investigation. As I addressed in my March 24th letter, the Special Counsel did not make a traditional prosecutorial judgment regarding this allegation. Instead, the report recounts ten episodes involving the President and discusses potential legal theories for connecting these actions to elements of an obstruction offense. After carefully reviewing the facts and legal theories outlined in the report, and in consultation with the Office of Legal Counsel and other Department lawyers, the Deputy Attorney General and I concluded that the evidence developed by the Special Counsel is not sufficient to establish that the President committed an obstruction-of-justice offense. Although the Deputy Attorney General and I disagreed with some of the Special Counsel’s legal theories and felt that some of the episodes examined did not amount to obstruction as a matter of law, we did not rely solely on that in making our decision. Instead, we accepted the Special Counsel’s legal framework for purposes of our analysis and evaluated the evidence as presented by the Special Counsel in reaching our conclusion. In assessing the President’s actions discussed in the report, it is important to bear in mind the context. President Trump faced an unprecedented situation. As he entered into office, and sought to perform his responsibilities as President, federal agents and prosecutors were scrutinizing his conduct before and after taking office, and the conduct of some of his associates. At the same time, there was relentless speculation in the news media about the President’s personal culpability. Yet, as he said from the beginning, there was in fact no collusion. And as the Special Counsel’s report acknowledges, there is substantial evidence to show that the President was frustrated and angered by a sincere belief that the investigation was undermining his presidency, propelled by his political opponents, and fueled by illegal leaks. Nonetheless, the White House fully cooperated with the Special Counsel’s investigation, providing unfettered access to campaign and White House documents, directing senior aides to testify freely, and asserting no privilege claims. And at the same time, the President took no act that in fact deprived the Special Counsel of the documents and witnesses necessary to complete his investigation. Apart from whether the acts were obstructive, this evidence of non-corrupt motives weighs heavily against any allegation that the President had a corrupt intent to obstruct the investigation. Now, before I take questions, I want to address a few aspects of the process for producing the public report that I am releasing today. As I said several times, the report contains limited redactions relating to four categories of information. To ensure as much transparency as possible, these redactions have been clearly labelled and color-coded so that readers can tell which redactions correspond to which categories. As you will see, most of the redactions were compelled by the need to prevent harm to ongoing matters and to comply with court orders prohibiting the public disclosure of information bearing upon ongoing investigations and criminal cases, such as the IRA case and the Roger Stone case. These redactions were applied by Department of Justice attorneys working closely together with attorneys from the Special Counsel’s Office, as well as with the intelligence community, and prosecutors who are handling ongoing cases. The redactions are their work product. Consistent with long-standing Executive Branch practice, the decision whether to assert Executive privilege over any portion of the report rested with the President of the United States. Because the White House voluntarily cooperated with the Special Counsel’s investigation, significant portions of the report contain material over which the President could have asserted privilege. And he would have been well within his rights to do so. Following my March 29th letter, the Office of the White House Counsel requested the opportunity to review the redacted version of the report in order to advise the President on the potential invocation of privilege, which is consistent with long-standing practice. Following that review, the President confirmed that, in the interests of transparency and full disclosure to the American people, he would not assert privilege over the Special Counsel’s report. Accordingly, the public report I am releasing today contains redactions only for the four categories that I previously outlined, and no material has been redacted based on executive privilege. In addition, earlier this week, the President’s personal counsel requested and were given the opportunity to read a final version of the redacted report before it was publicly released. That request was consistent with the practice followed under the Ethics in Government Act, which permitted individuals named in a report prepared by an Independent Counsel the opportunity to read the report before publication. The President’s personal lawyers were not permitted to make, and did not request, any redactions. In addition to making the redacted report public, we are also committed to working with Congress to accommodate their legitimate oversight interests with respect to the Special Counsel’s investigation. We have been consulting with Chairman Graham and Chairman Nadler throughout this process, and we will continue to do so. Given the limited nature of the redactions, I believe that the publicly released report will allow every American to understand the results of the Special Counsel’s investigation. Nevertheless, in an effort to accommodate congressional requests, we will make available to a bipartisan group of leaders from several Congressional committees a version of the report with all redactions removed except those relating to grand-jury information. Thus, these members of Congress will be able to see all of the redacted material for themselves – with the limited exception of that which, by law, cannot be shared. I believe that this accommodation, together with my upcoming testimony before the Senate and House Judiciary Committees, will satisfy any need Congress has for information regarding the Special Counsel’s investigation. Once again, I would like to thank you all for being here today. I now have a few minutes for questions.    Supported by By Lisa Lerer Former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. on Tuesday acknowledged his role in the Anita Hill hearing, publicly reckoning with a moment from his past that has drawn criticism as he considers a third presidential campaign. In an emotional speech, Mr. Biden said he recognized the part he played in the aggressive questioning that Ms. Hill faced during the 1991 Supreme Court confirmation hearing for Justice Clarence Thomas, when she testified that Justice Thomas had sexually harassed her. [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] “She faced a committee that didn’t fully understand what the hell this was all about. To this day, I regret I couldn’t give her the kind of hearing she deserved,” he said, at an event in New York City honoring students who helped fight sexual violence on college campuses. “I wish I could have done something.” His lament rang hollow to some on social media Tuesday night, who noted that Mr. Biden, as chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, had considerable influence over how the hearing was conducted. Though Mr. Biden would enter the 2020 race as a presumptive front-runner, the legacy of Ms. Hill’s testimony has complicated his path through a modern Democratic Party that has cast itself as a champion of women’s rights. He has positioned himself as a fierce opponent of sexual violence in the three decades since the hearing, saying he voted against confirming Justice Thomas and vowed “never again” after witnessing the racist and misogynistic backlash faced by Ms. Hill, who is African-American, as a result of her testimony. Ms. Hill, he said Tuesday, was a “brave lawyer” who was forced to testify before “a bunch of white guys” and paid a “terrible price” for it. Mr. Biden touted his work on the Violence Against Women Act, campaigns for female candidates who later joined the Judiciary Committee and work to curtail campus sexual assault as vice president. The sexual assault allegations against Justice Brett M. Kavanaugh, which dominated his confirmation hearings last fall, and the attention paid to the #MeToo movement, transformed sexual harassment and assault into a campaign issue for Democrats during the midterm election. Both as candidates and voters, women powered much of the party’s gains, fueling a desire in some quarters for a female candidate at the top of the ticket. Mr. Biden decried the Kavanaugh hearings, arguing that the “white man’s culture” of the country’s most powerful institutions must be changed to give women’s voices greater power. “In almost 30 years, the institutional culture has not changed,” he said. “That diminishes the likelihood that women will come forward.”  

Supported by By Lisa Lerer Former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. on Tuesday acknowledged his role in the Anita Hill hearing, publicly reckoning with a moment from his past that has drawn criticism as he considers a third presidential campaign. In an emotional speech, Mr. Biden said he recognized the part he played in the aggressive questioning that Ms. Hill faced during the 1991 Supreme Court confirmation hearing for Justice Clarence Thomas, when she testified that Justice Thomas had sexually harassed her. [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] “She faced a committee that didn’t fully understand what the hell this was all about. To this day, I regret I couldn’t give her the kind of hearing she deserved,” he said, at an event in New York City honoring students who helped fight sexual violence on college campuses. “I wish I could have done something.” His lament rang hollow to some on social media Tuesday night, who noted that Mr. Biden, as chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, had considerable influence over how the hearing was conducted. Though Mr. Biden would enter the 2020 race as a presumptive front-runner, the legacy of Ms. Hill’s testimony has complicated his path through a modern Democratic Party that has cast itself as a champion of women’s rights. He has positioned himself as a fierce opponent of sexual violence in the three decades since the hearing, saying he voted against confirming Justice Thomas and vowed “never again” after witnessing the racist and misogynistic backlash faced by Ms. Hill, who is African-American, as a result of her testimony. Ms. Hill, he said Tuesday, was a “brave lawyer” who was forced to testify before “a bunch of white guys” and paid a “terrible price” for it. Mr. Biden touted his work on the Violence Against Women Act, campaigns for female candidates who later joined the Judiciary Committee and work to curtail campus sexual assault as vice president. The sexual assault allegations against Justice Brett M. Kavanaugh, which dominated his confirmation hearings last fall, and the attention paid to the #MeToo movement, transformed sexual harassment and assault into a campaign issue for Democrats during the midterm election. Both as candidates and voters, women powered much of the party’s gains, fueling a desire in some quarters for a female candidate at the top of the ticket. Mr. Biden decried the Kavanaugh hearings, arguing that the “white man’s culture” of the country’s most powerful institutions must be changed to give women’s voices greater power. “In almost 30 years, the institutional culture has not changed,” he said. “That diminishes the likelihood that women will come forward.”  Supported by William Barr vs. the Justice Department as we knew it. By David Leonhardt Opinion Columnist This article is part of David Leonhardt’s newsletter. You can sign up here to receive it each weekday. In the years after Watergate, Justice Department officials — from both parties — worked hard to banish partisan cronyism from the department. Their goal was to make it the least political, most independent part of the executive branch. “Our law is not an instrument of partisan purpose,” Edward Levi, Gerald Ford’s attorney general, said at the time. Griffin Bell, later appointed to the same job by Jimmy Carter, described the department as “a neutral zone in the government, because the law has to be neutral.” Attorney General William Barr clearly rejects this principle. He’s repeatedly put a higher priority on protecting his boss, President Trump, than on upholding the law in a neutral way. He did so in his letter last month summarizing Robert Mueller’s investigation and then again in a bizarre prebuttal news conference yesterday. As The Times editorial board wrote, Barr yesterday “behaved more like the president’s defense attorney than the nation’s top law-enforcement officer.” [Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.] Throughout his tenure, Barr has downplayed or ignored the voluminous evidence of Trump’s wrongdoing — his lies to the American people, his willingness to work with a hostile foreign country during a presidential campaign, his tolerance of extensive criminal behavior among his staff and his repeated efforts to obstruct an investigation. Barr even claimed that Trump “fully cooperated” with that investigation, which Vox’s Ezra Klein notes is “an outright lie.” Since he took office, Trump has made clear that he wants an attorney general who acts as first an enforcer of raw power and only second as an enforcer of federal law. In Barr, Trump has found his man. Together, they have cast aside more than four decades worth of Justice Department ideals and instead adopted the approach of Richard Nixon. For more New York magazine’s Jonathan Chait argues that Barr’s behavior is grounds for impeachment — of Barr. “The Justice Department is an awesome force that holds the power to enable the ruling party to commit crimes with impunity, or to intimidate and smear the opposing party with the taint of criminality,” Chait writes. “Barr has revealed his complete unfitness for this awesome task.”  “Barr’s summaries of Mueller’s findings, it turns out, didn’t just tighten up the findings. They misrepresented key points,” writes Vox’s Laura McGann, who compared Barr’s letter and press conference to the actual Mueller report. The Washington Post’s Harry Litman points out that Barr’s deputy, Rod Rosenstein, has helped enable this behavior, which means that Rosenstein has also helped to undermine the post-Nixon Justice Department norms. “Rosenstein will be remembered not just for a lonely effort to stand up to an assault from Trump and congressional Republicans, plus his original, commendable decision to appoint Mueller, but also for stumbles in judgment along the way,” Litman writes. The Atlantic’s Yoni Appelbaum summarizes the Mueller report and argues that it is effectively an impeachment referral. The New Yorker’s Susan Glasser and the Lawfare team have also published summaries. For a very different view, Christopher Buskirk argues in The Times that the Mueller report absolves Barr and Trump and makes only the media look bad.  If you are not a subscriber to this newsletter, you can subscribe here. You can also join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt • Facebook 

Supported by William Barr vs. the Justice Department as we knew it. By David Leonhardt Opinion Columnist This article is part of David Leonhardt’s newsletter. You can sign up here to receive it each weekday. In the years after Watergate, Justice Department officials — from both parties — worked hard to banish partisan cronyism from the department. Their goal was to make it the least political, most independent part of the executive branch. “Our law is not an instrument of partisan purpose,” Edward Levi, Gerald Ford’s attorney general, said at the time. Griffin Bell, later appointed to the same job by Jimmy Carter, described the department as “a neutral zone in the government, because the law has to be neutral.” Attorney General William Barr clearly rejects this principle. He’s repeatedly put a higher priority on protecting his boss, President Trump, than on upholding the law in a neutral way. He did so in his letter last month summarizing Robert Mueller’s investigation and then again in a bizarre prebuttal news conference yesterday. As The Times editorial board wrote, Barr yesterday “behaved more like the president’s defense attorney than the nation’s top law-enforcement officer.” [Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.] Throughout his tenure, Barr has downplayed or ignored the voluminous evidence of Trump’s wrongdoing — his lies to the American people, his willingness to work with a hostile foreign country during a presidential campaign, his tolerance of extensive criminal behavior among his staff and his repeated efforts to obstruct an investigation. Barr even claimed that Trump “fully cooperated” with that investigation, which Vox’s Ezra Klein notes is “an outright lie.” Since he took office, Trump has made clear that he wants an attorney general who acts as first an enforcer of raw power and only second as an enforcer of federal law. In Barr, Trump has found his man. Together, they have cast aside more than four decades worth of Justice Department ideals and instead adopted the approach of Richard Nixon. For more New York magazine’s Jonathan Chait argues that Barr’s behavior is grounds for impeachment — of Barr. “The Justice Department is an awesome force that holds the power to enable the ruling party to commit crimes with impunity, or to intimidate and smear the opposing party with the taint of criminality,” Chait writes. “Barr has revealed his complete unfitness for this awesome task.”  “Barr’s summaries of Mueller’s findings, it turns out, didn’t just tighten up the findings. They misrepresented key points,” writes Vox’s Laura McGann, who compared Barr’s letter and press conference to the actual Mueller report. The Washington Post’s Harry Litman points out that Barr’s deputy, Rod Rosenstein, has helped enable this behavior, which means that Rosenstein has also helped to undermine the post-Nixon Justice Department norms. “Rosenstein will be remembered not just for a lonely effort to stand up to an assault from Trump and congressional Republicans, plus his original, commendable decision to appoint Mueller, but also for stumbles in judgment along the way,” Litman writes. The Atlantic’s Yoni Appelbaum summarizes the Mueller report and argues that it is effectively an impeachment referral. The New Yorker’s Susan Glasser and the Lawfare team have also published summaries. For a very different view, Christopher Buskirk argues in The Times that the Mueller report absolves Barr and Trump and makes only the media look bad.  If you are not a subscriber to this newsletter, you can subscribe here. You can also join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt • Facebook Supported by By Reuters NEW YORK — The number of Americans who approve of President Donald Trump dropped by 3 percentage points to the lowest level of the year following the release of a special counsel report detailing Russian interference in the last U.S. presidential election, according to an exclusive Reuters/Ipsos public opinion poll. The poll, conducted Thursday afternoon to Friday morning, is the first national survey to measure the response from the American public after the U.S. Justice Department released Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s 448-page report that recounted numerous occasions in which Trump may have interfered with the investigation.  According to the poll, 37 percent of adults in the United States approved of Trump’s performance in office, down from 40 percent in a similar poll conducted on April 15 and matching the lowest level of the year. That is also down from 43 percent in a poll conducted shortly after U.S. Attorney General William Barr circulated a summary of the report in March. In his report, Mueller said his investigation did not establish that the Trump campaign had coordinated with Russians. However, investigators did find “multiple acts by the President that were capable of exerting undue influence over law enforcement investigations.”  While Mueller ultimately decided not to charge Trump with a crime, he also said that the investigation did not exonerate the president, either.  The Reuters/Ipsos poll was conducted online in English throughout the United States. It gathered responses from 1,005 adults, including 924 who were familiar with the Mueller report. It has a credibility interval, a measure of precision, of 4 percentage points.  To see the entire Reuters/Ipsos poll, click here: https://tmsnrt.rs/2DjEq3R SHARP SPLIT  The poll found that 50 percent of Americans agreed that “Trump or someone from his campaign worked with Russia to influence the 2016 election,” and 58 percent agreed that the president “tried to stop investigations into Russian influence on his administration.” Forty percent said they thought Trump should be impeached, while 42 percent said he should not. The poll responses were sharply split along party lines, with Democrats much more critical of Trump than his fellow Republicans.  The Mueller investigation had previously charged 34 other people and three Russian entities, netting convictions or guilty pleas from several Trump associates including former campaign chairman Paul Manafort, White House national security adviser Michael Flynn and longtime personal attorney Michael Cohen. So far, the report does not appear to have convinced many to change their opinions about the president’s conduct during a bitter presidential campaign, whether his inner circle improperly engaged with Russian agents, or if he tried to interfere with federal investigators afterward.  Among those respondents who said they were familiar with the Mueller report, 70 percent said the report had not changed their view of Trump or Russia’s involvement in the U.S. presidential race. Only 15 percent said they had learned something that changed their view of Trump or the Russia investigation, and a majority of those respondents said they were now more likely to believe that “Trump or someone close to him broke the law.” (For a 'Link to Mueller report' click https://graphics.reuters.com/USA-TRUMP-RUSSIA/010091HX27V/report.pdf)  (For a graphic on 'A closer look at Mueller report redactions' click https://tmsnrt.rs/2VSx7HZ)  (Reporting by Chris Kahn; Editing by Andrea Ricci)

Supported by By Reuters NEW YORK — The number of Americans who approve of President Donald Trump dropped by 3 percentage points to the lowest level of the year following the release of a special counsel report detailing Russian interference in the last U.S. presidential election, according to an exclusive Reuters/Ipsos public opinion poll. The poll, conducted Thursday afternoon to Friday morning, is the first national survey to measure the response from the American public after the U.S. Justice Department released Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s 448-page report that recounted numerous occasions in which Trump may have interfered with the investigation.  According to the poll, 37 percent of adults in the United States approved of Trump’s performance in office, down from 40 percent in a similar poll conducted on April 15 and matching the lowest level of the year. That is also down from 43 percent in a poll conducted shortly after U.S. Attorney General William Barr circulated a summary of the report in March. In his report, Mueller said his investigation did not establish that the Trump campaign had coordinated with Russians. However, investigators did find “multiple acts by the President that were capable of exerting undue influence over law enforcement investigations.”  While Mueller ultimately decided not to charge Trump with a crime, he also said that the investigation did not exonerate the president, either.  The Reuters/Ipsos poll was conducted online in English throughout the United States. It gathered responses from 1,005 adults, including 924 who were familiar with the Mueller report. It has a credibility interval, a measure of precision, of 4 percentage points.  To see the entire Reuters/Ipsos poll, click here: https://tmsnrt.rs/2DjEq3R SHARP SPLIT  The poll found that 50 percent of Americans agreed that “Trump or someone from his campaign worked with Russia to influence the 2016 election,” and 58 percent agreed that the president “tried to stop investigations into Russian influence on his administration.” Forty percent said they thought Trump should be impeached, while 42 percent said he should not. The poll responses were sharply split along party lines, with Democrats much more critical of Trump than his fellow Republicans.  The Mueller investigation had previously charged 34 other people and three Russian entities, netting convictions or guilty pleas from several Trump associates including former campaign chairman Paul Manafort, White House national security adviser Michael Flynn and longtime personal attorney Michael Cohen. So far, the report does not appear to have convinced many to change their opinions about the president’s conduct during a bitter presidential campaign, whether his inner circle improperly engaged with Russian agents, or if he tried to interfere with federal investigators afterward.  Among those respondents who said they were familiar with the Mueller report, 70 percent said the report had not changed their view of Trump or Russia’s involvement in the U.S. presidential race. Only 15 percent said they had learned something that changed their view of Trump or the Russia investigation, and a majority of those respondents said they were now more likely to believe that “Trump or someone close to him broke the law.” (For a 'Link to Mueller report' click https://graphics.reuters.com/USA-TRUMP-RUSSIA/010091HX27V/report.pdf)  (For a graphic on 'A closer look at Mueller report redactions' click https://tmsnrt.rs/2VSx7HZ)  (Reporting by Chris Kahn; Editing by Andrea Ricci)Supported by By Jacey Fortin and Sarah Mervosh If the Democratic presidential candidate Cory Booker runs a successful campaign through 2020, he could enter the White House as one of only a few presidents who were not married when they took office. And so, in addition to the more typical questions about his candidacy — What are his odds in one of the most crowded and diverse Democratic primaries in American history? Could his candidacy be hurt by past connections to Wall Street and Silicon Valley? — people have also been wondering: Is he dating anyone? Mr. Booker, 49, who has talked about how his mother was pestering him to get married, has tended to be tight-lipped. But last month, he opened up a little bit more. “I’m dating somebody really special,” he said during a radio appearance. “I got a boo.” On Thursday, Rosario Dawson, the actress and political activist who supported Bernie Sanders during the 2016 presidential campaign, confirmed widespread speculation that it was she who was dating Mr. Booker, according to a video posted by TMZ. “I am just grateful to be with someone that I respect and love and admire so much,” Ms. Dawson, 39, said in the video, batting away a question about the possibility of a future engagement. On Thursday, representatives for Ms. Dawson did not immediately respond to requests for comment, and a spokeswoman for Mr. Booker’s campaign declined to comment on the relationship between the two. Ms. Dawson’s comments on TMZ came after gossip websites had already gushed that the two had been seen together at the movies and had even reportedly said “I love you.” Mr. Booker, a United States senator from New Jersey and the former mayor of Newark, has campaigned on a message of unity since he announced his candidacy on Feb. 1, the first day of Black History Month. Should he win, he could join the likes of Grover Cleveland and James Buchanan, two presidents who were not married when they took their oaths of office. Ms. Dawson, an actress known for roles in movies including “Rent” and “Sin City,” is also a co-founder of Voto Latino, a civic media organization and advocacy group for Latino voters in the United States. She was a prominent supporter of Mr. Sanders during the 2016 primary. Ms. Dawson drew criticism at one point for invoking Monica Lewinsky at a rally for Mr. Sanders, who faced Hillary Clinton in the Democratic primary. Afterward, Mr. Sanders offered support for Ms. Dawson: “She’s been a passionate fighter to see that we increase the voter turnout, that we fight for racial, economic, environmental justice,” he said. Asked by TMZ on Thursday whether Mr. Booker would make a good president, Ms. Dawson said, “I think so, yeah. He’s an amazing human being.”   

Supported by By Jacey Fortin and Sarah Mervosh If the Democratic presidential candidate Cory Booker runs a successful campaign through 2020, he could enter the White House as one of only a few presidents who were not married when they took office. And so, in addition to the more typical questions about his candidacy — What are his odds in one of the most crowded and diverse Democratic primaries in American history? Could his candidacy be hurt by past connections to Wall Street and Silicon Valley? — people have also been wondering: Is he dating anyone? Mr. Booker, 49, who has talked about how his mother was pestering him to get married, has tended to be tight-lipped. But last month, he opened up a little bit more. “I’m dating somebody really special,” he said during a radio appearance. “I got a boo.” On Thursday, Rosario Dawson, the actress and political activist who supported Bernie Sanders during the 2016 presidential campaign, confirmed widespread speculation that it was she who was dating Mr. Booker, according to a video posted by TMZ. “I am just grateful to be with someone that I respect and love and admire so much,” Ms. Dawson, 39, said in the video, batting away a question about the possibility of a future engagement. On Thursday, representatives for Ms. Dawson did not immediately respond to requests for comment, and a spokeswoman for Mr. Booker’s campaign declined to comment on the relationship between the two. Ms. Dawson’s comments on TMZ came after gossip websites had already gushed that the two had been seen together at the movies and had even reportedly said “I love you.” Mr. Booker, a United States senator from New Jersey and the former mayor of Newark, has campaigned on a message of unity since he announced his candidacy on Feb. 1, the first day of Black History Month. Should he win, he could join the likes of Grover Cleveland and James Buchanan, two presidents who were not married when they took their oaths of office. Ms. Dawson, an actress known for roles in movies including “Rent” and “Sin City,” is also a co-founder of Voto Latino, a civic media organization and advocacy group for Latino voters in the United States. She was a prominent supporter of Mr. Sanders during the 2016 primary. Ms. Dawson drew criticism at one point for invoking Monica Lewinsky at a rally for Mr. Sanders, who faced Hillary Clinton in the Democratic primary. Afterward, Mr. Sanders offered support for Ms. Dawson: “She’s been a passionate fighter to see that we increase the voter turnout, that we fight for racial, economic, environmental justice,” he said. Asked by TMZ on Thursday whether Mr. Booker would make a good president, Ms. Dawson said, “I think so, yeah. He’s an amazing human being.”   Supported by lens Walking around Prospect Park with a 100 pounds of gear, including a boxy 8 by 10 camera, Bruce Polin collaborated with strangers to make idyllic portraits. Photographs by Bruce Polin Text by John Leland Photographers often talk about making pictures rather than taking them: constructing something from the scene in front of the camera that is related to it but not subordinate to it. A photo of a tree or a soldier has a life independent of its subject. Bruce Polin began making these images in Brooklyn’s Prospect Park around the time of the last presidential campaign. He had been shooting mostly in his home studio, but when the divisive rhetoric of the election heated up, he felt the need to get out among strangers, from all cultures he could find. The park was ideal. The camera was big. It was a boxy, old-fashioned Japanese mechanism that shot on plates of film 8 inches by 10 inches. Polin would lug 100 pounds of gear around the park, most days going home without his efforts resulting in a single image. The process was slow, but rewardingly so, Mr. Polin said, because it fostered collaboration. The time it took to set up the tripod, go under the hood, adjust the focus and shutter speed, pop in the film plate, step out of the hood (once the film was in he could not see through the viewfinder), snap the shutter, and perhaps most importantly, persuade participants to stick around for the process, gave his subjects time to build identities for themselves within the frame, he said. “I’m creating a personality or they’re constructing a personality, and it’s a collaboration,” he said. “We’re conversing. I detect a degree of self-awareness at times. They might adjust themselves slightly,” Mr. Polin said of his subjects. “Something is being created for the final image. It’s not that I’m trying to document something that I saw and I have to have that. The thing is built in layers over time.” The project became a study in the anthropology of time: the people in the schmancier quarters of Prospect Park didn’t have time to stop for him, or they didn’t meet his eyes if he drew near, as if afraid he would steal their valuable minutes. In other sectors they were more open or more curious; often he just set up his camera near people who interested him and hoped they would come check him out. (This didn’t always work.) Nor was he looking for pretty pictures of nature; the park functions like a set of studio props. “It’s almost like anti-cellphone photography,” he said. When he showed people their pictures later — much later — they were often surprised by what they had constructed together. “They’d say, ‘I can’t believe that’s me,’” he said. “People see themselves outside of themselves.” Follow @nytimesphoto and @johnleland on Twitter. You can also find us on Facebook and Instagram. You can follow @BrucePolin on Instagram. John Leland, a Metro reporter, joined The Times in 2000. His most recent book is “Happiness Is a Choice You Make: Lessons From a Year Among the Oldest Old,” based on a Times series.  @johnleland 

Supported by lens Walking around Prospect Park with a 100 pounds of gear, including a boxy 8 by 10 camera, Bruce Polin collaborated with strangers to make idyllic portraits. Photographs by Bruce Polin Text by John Leland Photographers often talk about making pictures rather than taking them: constructing something from the scene in front of the camera that is related to it but not subordinate to it. A photo of a tree or a soldier has a life independent of its subject. Bruce Polin began making these images in Brooklyn’s Prospect Park around the time of the last presidential campaign. He had been shooting mostly in his home studio, but when the divisive rhetoric of the election heated up, he felt the need to get out among strangers, from all cultures he could find. The park was ideal. The camera was big. It was a boxy, old-fashioned Japanese mechanism that shot on plates of film 8 inches by 10 inches. Polin would lug 100 pounds of gear around the park, most days going home without his efforts resulting in a single image. The process was slow, but rewardingly so, Mr. Polin said, because it fostered collaboration. The time it took to set up the tripod, go under the hood, adjust the focus and shutter speed, pop in the film plate, step out of the hood (once the film was in he could not see through the viewfinder), snap the shutter, and perhaps most importantly, persuade participants to stick around for the process, gave his subjects time to build identities for themselves within the frame, he said. “I’m creating a personality or they’re constructing a personality, and it’s a collaboration,” he said. “We’re conversing. I detect a degree of self-awareness at times. They might adjust themselves slightly,” Mr. Polin said of his subjects. “Something is being created for the final image. It’s not that I’m trying to document something that I saw and I have to have that. The thing is built in layers over time.” The project became a study in the anthropology of time: the people in the schmancier quarters of Prospect Park didn’t have time to stop for him, or they didn’t meet his eyes if he drew near, as if afraid he would steal their valuable minutes. In other sectors they were more open or more curious; often he just set up his camera near people who interested him and hoped they would come check him out. (This didn’t always work.) Nor was he looking for pretty pictures of nature; the park functions like a set of studio props. “It’s almost like anti-cellphone photography,” he said. When he showed people their pictures later — much later — they were often surprised by what they had constructed together. “They’d say, ‘I can’t believe that’s me,’” he said. “People see themselves outside of themselves.” Follow @nytimesphoto and @johnleland on Twitter. You can also find us on Facebook and Instagram. You can follow @BrucePolin on Instagram. John Leland, a Metro reporter, joined The Times in 2000. His most recent book is “Happiness Is a Choice You Make: Lessons From a Year Among the Oldest Old,” based on a Times series.  @johnleland Supported by By The Associated Press BEIJING — Asian stocks fell Thursday after Wall Street declined despite encouraging Chinese economic data. Benchmarks in Shanghai, Tokyo, Seoul and Hong Kong all retreated. Sydney was little-changed. U.S. stocks fell despite data showing growth in China's gross domestic product held steady in the latest quarter in the face of a tariff war with Washington and consumer spending accelerated. "The surprisingly robust China GDP data failed to ignite a rally on Wall Street as U.S. investors turn focus to domestic concerns," said Stephen Innes of SPI Asset Management in a report. He said investors are "increasingly cautious" about possibly misreading economic signals. Wall Street's slide was led by health care stocks. Investors fear the potential impact on profits from reform ideas being discussed in Washington and on the presidential campaign trail. Qualcomm led gains in the technology sector. Intel climbed after pulling out of the smartphone modem market. T-Mobile and Sprint slumped on reports the Justice Department is questioning their proposed merger. In Asia, the Shanghai Composite Index declined 0.4% to 3,250.03 and Tokyo's Nikkei 225 lost 0.4% to 22,177.75. Hong Kong's Hang Seng shed 0.5% to 29,972.74 and Seoul's Kospi retreated 0.9% to 2,225.77. Sydney's S&P-ASX 200 gained 2 points to 6,259.50. Benchmarks in Taiwan, New Zealand and Southeast Asia rose. On Wall Street, the benchmark S&P 500 fell 0.2% to 2,900.45 and the Dow Jones Industrial Average lost less than 0.1% to 26,449.54. The Nasdaq composite slid 0.1% to 7,996.08. American investors are poring over company results this week, focusing on profit and revenue outlooks. Analysts expect the first quarter results for S&P 500 companies overall to be the weakest in nearly three years. US-CHINA TRADE: The Wall Street Journal reported U.S. and Chinese negotiators are planning two more rounds of meetings aimed at ending a tariff war over Beijing's technology ambitions. The newspaper, citing unidentified sources, said the two sides are aiming for a signing ceremony in late May or early June. The two sides have raised tariffs on billions of dollars of each other's goods, rattling global financial markets. Washington and other trading partners say Beijing's plans for state-led creation of Chinese competitors in robotics and other technologies violate its market-opening commitments. US ECONOMY: The Federal Reserve says the economy was expanding at a moderate pace in March and early April, despite uncertainty caused by trade tensions and Midwest flooding. The Fed's "beige book" on economic conditions said weakness remained, especially in sluggish consumer spending, which accounts for two-thirds of economic activity. The report will form the basis for discussion when central bank officials meet April 30-May 1 to discuss interest rates. ENERGY: Benchmark U.S. crude lost 8 cents to $63.68 per barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The contract fell 29 cents on Wednesday to close at $63.76. Brent crude, used to price international oils, sank 19 cents to $71.43 per barrel in London. It declined 10 cents the previous session to $71.62. CURRENCY: The dollar declined to 111.94 yen from Wednesday's 112.05 yen. The euro edged down to $1.1295 from $1.1299.

Supported by By The Associated Press BEIJING — Asian stocks fell Thursday after Wall Street declined despite encouraging Chinese economic data. Benchmarks in Shanghai, Tokyo, Seoul and Hong Kong all retreated. Sydney was little-changed. U.S. stocks fell despite data showing growth in China's gross domestic product held steady in the latest quarter in the face of a tariff war with Washington and consumer spending accelerated. "The surprisingly robust China GDP data failed to ignite a rally on Wall Street as U.S. investors turn focus to domestic concerns," said Stephen Innes of SPI Asset Management in a report. He said investors are "increasingly cautious" about possibly misreading economic signals. Wall Street's slide was led by health care stocks. Investors fear the potential impact on profits from reform ideas being discussed in Washington and on the presidential campaign trail. Qualcomm led gains in the technology sector. Intel climbed after pulling out of the smartphone modem market. T-Mobile and Sprint slumped on reports the Justice Department is questioning their proposed merger. In Asia, the Shanghai Composite Index declined 0.4% to 3,250.03 and Tokyo's Nikkei 225 lost 0.4% to 22,177.75. Hong Kong's Hang Seng shed 0.5% to 29,972.74 and Seoul's Kospi retreated 0.9% to 2,225.77. Sydney's S&P-ASX 200 gained 2 points to 6,259.50. Benchmarks in Taiwan, New Zealand and Southeast Asia rose. On Wall Street, the benchmark S&P 500 fell 0.2% to 2,900.45 and the Dow Jones Industrial Average lost less than 0.1% to 26,449.54. The Nasdaq composite slid 0.1% to 7,996.08. American investors are poring over company results this week, focusing on profit and revenue outlooks. Analysts expect the first quarter results for S&P 500 companies overall to be the weakest in nearly three years. US-CHINA TRADE: The Wall Street Journal reported U.S. and Chinese negotiators are planning two more rounds of meetings aimed at ending a tariff war over Beijing's technology ambitions. The newspaper, citing unidentified sources, said the two sides are aiming for a signing ceremony in late May or early June. The two sides have raised tariffs on billions of dollars of each other's goods, rattling global financial markets. Washington and other trading partners say Beijing's plans for state-led creation of Chinese competitors in robotics and other technologies violate its market-opening commitments. US ECONOMY: The Federal Reserve says the economy was expanding at a moderate pace in March and early April, despite uncertainty caused by trade tensions and Midwest flooding. The Fed's "beige book" on economic conditions said weakness remained, especially in sluggish consumer spending, which accounts for two-thirds of economic activity. The report will form the basis for discussion when central bank officials meet April 30-May 1 to discuss interest rates. ENERGY: Benchmark U.S. crude lost 8 cents to $63.68 per barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The contract fell 29 cents on Wednesday to close at $63.76. Brent crude, used to price international oils, sank 19 cents to $71.43 per barrel in London. It declined 10 cents the previous session to $71.62. CURRENCY: The dollar declined to 111.94 yen from Wednesday's 112.05 yen. The euro edged down to $1.1295 from $1.1299.Supported by By Sam Roberts Patrick Caddell, the political pollster who helped send an obscure peanut farmer named Jimmy Carter to the White House, later became disillusioned with fellow Democrats and finally veered right to advise supporters of Donald J. Trump, died on Saturday in Charleston, S.C. He was 68. His death, from complications of a stroke, was confirmed by a colleague, Prof. Kendra Stewart of the College of Charleston. While Mr. Caddell was considered instrumental in Mr. Carter’s victory in 1976, he also shared the blame for limiting him to a single term. He helped persuade the president to deliver a speech that was intended to inspirit the nation during an energy crisis and economic slump, but instead tarred Mr. Carter as a weakling who was unable to lift the country out of its malaise. Instead, in 1980 voters chose Ronald Reagan, a Republican who promised a rosier vision that he would describe during his successful re-election campaign as “morning again in America.” In fact, Mr. Carter never mentioned the word “malaise” in his 1979 address to a nation fed up with endless lines at gas stations, inflation and joblessness. And his solemn jeremiad bemoaning the “crisis of the American spirit” when “human identity is no longer defined by what one does, but by what one owns” was initially well received. But it turned out that the crisis of confidence was in Mr. Carter’s ability to get the country going again and to revive it from its malaise — a description that Clark M. Clifford, a presidential adviser, had invoked before the speech. By the late 1980s, Mr. Caddell had become disaffected with the Democratic Party, but his advice to candidates remained largely consistent, the same as it was for Jimmy Carter when, running as an outsider in 1976, he said “I’ll never lie to you” and promised “a government as good as its people.” That message, whether it applied to Mr. Carter or to Donald Trump in 2016, was to appeal to the expanding pool of voters alienated from Washington. Scott Miller, a colleague who developed the political research site WeNeedSmith.com, said that many people would not miss Mr. Caddell’s “needling and nettling,” but “the fact is, political calm made Pat very uneasy.” “That calm means that the cement of the status quo is hardening, that the inevitable corruption of power is taking deeper root, that incumbent complacency is turning overripe on the vine,” Mr. Miller said in an email. “This drew him to the change leaders: to George McGovern, to Jimmy Carter, to Gary Hart, to Steve Jobs, to Ross Perot and eventually to Donald Trump.” In 2016, he became a frequent commentator on Fox News and advised Stephen K. Bannon, who became President Trump’s chief White House strategist, and Robert Mercer, a computer mogul and contributor to the Trump campaign. As early as 1987, William Schneider, a political analyst with the American Enterprise Institute, called Mr. Caddell “the living American with the most direct experience in presidential campaigns, except for one, Richard Nixon.” Patrick Hayward Caddell was born on May 19, 1950, in Rock Hill, S.C. His mother was Janie (Burns) Caddell. His father, Newton P. Caddell, was a Coast Guard chief warrant officer. Patrick grew up near various Coast Guard stations, spending most of his youth in Falmouth, Mass., and Jacksonville, Fla., where he attended parochial high school and also began taking his first public opinion surveys. “Math was not my favorite subject,” he said, but at 16, for a mathematics project in his junior year, he fashioned a “voter election model” of the Jacksonville area for predicting elections based on early returns. “I set up at the courthouse and called all the elections early with great abandon, with no idea what I was doing,” he said. “And they all turned out right.” That was the extent of his formal academic training in public opinion research. He was still an undergraduate at Harvard, where he earned a bachelor’s degree in political science in 1972 and started a thesis on “the changing South,” when he started polling professionally for Senator George S. McGovern’s fledgling presidential primary operation. McGovern lost to President Nixon in a landslide; Mr. Caddell’s political acumen and polling expertise, translating data into tactical strategy, were among the few creditable outcomes of the campaign. He established his own firm, Cambridge Survey Research, to conduct political campaigns. Although he spun off another company, Cambridge Reports, to advise corporate clients, he was criticized for capitalizing on his Washington connections — representing, among other clients, nuclear energy companies and the Saudi Arabian government — especially when, during the Carter administration, he became known as the president’s pollster. Campaign staffs are not known for sharing credit, but in June 1976, when Mr. Carter had secured the Democratic nomination, his campaign manager, Hamilton Jordan, confidently told a reporter: “You know why Jimmy Carter is going to be president? Because of Pat Caddell — it’s all because of Pat Caddell.” Mr. Jordan said that in helping Mr. Carter defeat Gov. George C. Wallace of Alabama in the Florida primary, Mr. Caddell had reaffirmed the campaign’s overall strategy but had also pinpointed where to concentrate its resources. Before Mr. Carter was inaugurated in January 1977, Mr. Caddell advised him to stick to broad themes and issued a warning: “Too many good people,” he wrote in a 56-page memo, “have been beaten because they tried to substitute substance for style.” Mr. Caddell is survived by a daughter, Heidi Caddell Eichelberger; a brother, Daniel; a sister, Patricia Roberts; and three grandchildren. As a Harvard government major, Mr. Caddell understood that democracy and politics could sometimes conflict. He was quoted in “The Permanent Campaign” by Sidney Blumenthal as saying that Reagan’s tightly regulated contacts with the news media in his 1980 campaign set a model. “I would never be involved in another presidential campaign where the candidate was openly accessible to the press,” Mr. Caddell said. “As a campaign operative, this makes it easier for me. As an American citizen, I shudder to think what people like me would do. It’s terrible for the country.”

Supported by By Sam Roberts Patrick Caddell, the political pollster who helped send an obscure peanut farmer named Jimmy Carter to the White House, later became disillusioned with fellow Democrats and finally veered right to advise supporters of Donald J. Trump, died on Saturday in Charleston, S.C. He was 68. His death, from complications of a stroke, was confirmed by a colleague, Prof. Kendra Stewart of the College of Charleston. While Mr. Caddell was considered instrumental in Mr. Carter’s victory in 1976, he also shared the blame for limiting him to a single term. He helped persuade the president to deliver a speech that was intended to inspirit the nation during an energy crisis and economic slump, but instead tarred Mr. Carter as a weakling who was unable to lift the country out of its malaise. Instead, in 1980 voters chose Ronald Reagan, a Republican who promised a rosier vision that he would describe during his successful re-election campaign as “morning again in America.” In fact, Mr. Carter never mentioned the word “malaise” in his 1979 address to a nation fed up with endless lines at gas stations, inflation and joblessness. And his solemn jeremiad bemoaning the “crisis of the American spirit” when “human identity is no longer defined by what one does, but by what one owns” was initially well received. But it turned out that the crisis of confidence was in Mr. Carter’s ability to get the country going again and to revive it from its malaise — a description that Clark M. Clifford, a presidential adviser, had invoked before the speech. By the late 1980s, Mr. Caddell had become disaffected with the Democratic Party, but his advice to candidates remained largely consistent, the same as it was for Jimmy Carter when, running as an outsider in 1976, he said “I’ll never lie to you” and promised “a government as good as its people.” That message, whether it applied to Mr. Carter or to Donald Trump in 2016, was to appeal to the expanding pool of voters alienated from Washington. Scott Miller, a colleague who developed the political research site WeNeedSmith.com, said that many people would not miss Mr. Caddell’s “needling and nettling,” but “the fact is, political calm made Pat very uneasy.” “That calm means that the cement of the status quo is hardening, that the inevitable corruption of power is taking deeper root, that incumbent complacency is turning overripe on the vine,” Mr. Miller said in an email. “This drew him to the change leaders: to George McGovern, to Jimmy Carter, to Gary Hart, to Steve Jobs, to Ross Perot and eventually to Donald Trump.” In 2016, he became a frequent commentator on Fox News and advised Stephen K. Bannon, who became President Trump’s chief White House strategist, and Robert Mercer, a computer mogul and contributor to the Trump campaign. As early as 1987, William Schneider, a political analyst with the American Enterprise Institute, called Mr. Caddell “the living American with the most direct experience in presidential campaigns, except for one, Richard Nixon.” Patrick Hayward Caddell was born on May 19, 1950, in Rock Hill, S.C. His mother was Janie (Burns) Caddell. His father, Newton P. Caddell, was a Coast Guard chief warrant officer. Patrick grew up near various Coast Guard stations, spending most of his youth in Falmouth, Mass., and Jacksonville, Fla., where he attended parochial high school and also began taking his first public opinion surveys. “Math was not my favorite subject,” he said, but at 16, for a mathematics project in his junior year, he fashioned a “voter election model” of the Jacksonville area for predicting elections based on early returns. “I set up at the courthouse and called all the elections early with great abandon, with no idea what I was doing,” he said. “And they all turned out right.” That was the extent of his formal academic training in public opinion research. He was still an undergraduate at Harvard, where he earned a bachelor’s degree in political science in 1972 and started a thesis on “the changing South,” when he started polling professionally for Senator George S. McGovern’s fledgling presidential primary operation. McGovern lost to President Nixon in a landslide; Mr. Caddell’s political acumen and polling expertise, translating data into tactical strategy, were among the few creditable outcomes of the campaign. He established his own firm, Cambridge Survey Research, to conduct political campaigns. Although he spun off another company, Cambridge Reports, to advise corporate clients, he was criticized for capitalizing on his Washington connections — representing, among other clients, nuclear energy companies and the Saudi Arabian government — especially when, during the Carter administration, he became known as the president’s pollster. Campaign staffs are not known for sharing credit, but in June 1976, when Mr. Carter had secured the Democratic nomination, his campaign manager, Hamilton Jordan, confidently told a reporter: “You know why Jimmy Carter is going to be president? Because of Pat Caddell — it’s all because of Pat Caddell.” Mr. Jordan said that in helping Mr. Carter defeat Gov. George C. Wallace of Alabama in the Florida primary, Mr. Caddell had reaffirmed the campaign’s overall strategy but had also pinpointed where to concentrate its resources. Before Mr. Carter was inaugurated in January 1977, Mr. Caddell advised him to stick to broad themes and issued a warning: “Too many good people,” he wrote in a 56-page memo, “have been beaten because they tried to substitute substance for style.” Mr. Caddell is survived by a daughter, Heidi Caddell Eichelberger; a brother, Daniel; a sister, Patricia Roberts; and three grandchildren. As a Harvard government major, Mr. Caddell understood that democracy and politics could sometimes conflict. He was quoted in “The Permanent Campaign” by Sidney Blumenthal as saying that Reagan’s tightly regulated contacts with the news media in his 1980 campaign set a model. “I would never be involved in another presidential campaign where the candidate was openly accessible to the press,” Mr. Caddell said. “As a campaign operative, this makes it easier for me. As an American citizen, I shudder to think what people like me would do. It’s terrible for the country.”Supported by By Reuters (Reuters) - Pete Buttigieg, the millennial-aged mayor of South Bend, Indiana, who has enjoyed a surge in opinion polls and a torrent of media coverage, formally launched a bid on Sunday for the 2020 Democratic presidential nomination. "It is time to walk away from the politics of the past and toward something totally different," he said at a launch event in South Bend.  No potential contender in the burgeoning Democratic field has seen as rapid a rise in the early stages of the campaign as Buttigieg, who has gone from obscure Midwestern politician to top-tier contender in a matter of weeks. At 37, Buttigieg becomes the youngest entrant in a field that features 77-year-old U.S. Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont and, likely soon, 76-year-old former Vice President Joe Biden - a contrast Buttigieg has embraced.  "I recognize the audacity of doing this as a Midwestern millennial mayor," he told the crowd. "More than a little bold —at age 37 — to seek the highest office in the land." The man known as "Mayor Pete" has styled himself as the voice of the millennial generation, often talking about what the United States might look like decades from now.  "I take that long view because I have to," Buttigieg said. "I come from that generation that grew up with school shootings as the norm, the generation that produced the bulk of the troops in the post-9/11 conflicts, the generation that is going to be on the business end of climate change for as long as we live."  Buttigieg is the first openly gay major presidential candidate, which has given him inroads into a Democratic base that increasingly values diversity and progressivism.  During the event, he frequently mentioned his husband, Chasten, and spoke of the struggle to legalize same-sex marriage.  "Our marriage exists by the grace of a single vote on the U.S. Supreme Court," he said.  As mayor of South Bend since 2012, he has presided over an economic turnaround that has brought new investment into the struggling northwestern Indiana industrial town, an achievement likely to be a central plank of his presidential campaign. Indeed, his kick-off event was held inside the cavernous former plant that once made Studebaker autos. It closed in 1963 and only now is being redeveloped. Polls of voters in Iowa and New Hampshire released last week showed Buttigieg in third place in both early-voting states, although still well behind Biden and Sanders. Buttigieg raised $7 million in the first quarter of the year, surpassing more established rivals such as U.S. Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts. More than a dozen Democrats have announced a run for the chance to take on President Donald Trump, a Republican, in the November 2020 general election. Democratic voters will begin the process of selecting a nominee in a series of contests beginning early next year. A former Rhodes Scholar, consultant for the firm McKinsey and Co and U.S. Navy reservist who served in Afghanistan, Buttigieg has the kind of background that could appeal to both moderates and progressives in the party.  But questions will persist about whether the mayor of an Indiana city of 100,000 residents is ready to run a nation of 330 million.   (Reporting by James Oliphant; Editing by Colleen Jenkins, Jonathan Oatis and Nick Zieminski)

Supported by By Reuters (Reuters) - Pete Buttigieg, the millennial-aged mayor of South Bend, Indiana, who has enjoyed a surge in opinion polls and a torrent of media coverage, formally launched a bid on Sunday for the 2020 Democratic presidential nomination. "It is time to walk away from the politics of the past and toward something totally different," he said at a launch event in South Bend.  No potential contender in the burgeoning Democratic field has seen as rapid a rise in the early stages of the campaign as Buttigieg, who has gone from obscure Midwestern politician to top-tier contender in a matter of weeks. At 37, Buttigieg becomes the youngest entrant in a field that features 77-year-old U.S. Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont and, likely soon, 76-year-old former Vice President Joe Biden - a contrast Buttigieg has embraced.  "I recognize the audacity of doing this as a Midwestern millennial mayor," he told the crowd. "More than a little bold —at age 37 — to seek the highest office in the land." The man known as "Mayor Pete" has styled himself as the voice of the millennial generation, often talking about what the United States might look like decades from now.  "I take that long view because I have to," Buttigieg said. "I come from that generation that grew up with school shootings as the norm, the generation that produced the bulk of the troops in the post-9/11 conflicts, the generation that is going to be on the business end of climate change for as long as we live."  Buttigieg is the first openly gay major presidential candidate, which has given him inroads into a Democratic base that increasingly values diversity and progressivism.  During the event, he frequently mentioned his husband, Chasten, and spoke of the struggle to legalize same-sex marriage.  "Our marriage exists by the grace of a single vote on the U.S. Supreme Court," he said.  As mayor of South Bend since 2012, he has presided over an economic turnaround that has brought new investment into the struggling northwestern Indiana industrial town, an achievement likely to be a central plank of his presidential campaign. Indeed, his kick-off event was held inside the cavernous former plant that once made Studebaker autos. It closed in 1963 and only now is being redeveloped. Polls of voters in Iowa and New Hampshire released last week showed Buttigieg in third place in both early-voting states, although still well behind Biden and Sanders. Buttigieg raised $7 million in the first quarter of the year, surpassing more established rivals such as U.S. Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts. More than a dozen Democrats have announced a run for the chance to take on President Donald Trump, a Republican, in the November 2020 general election. Democratic voters will begin the process of selecting a nominee in a series of contests beginning early next year. A former Rhodes Scholar, consultant for the firm McKinsey and Co and U.S. Navy reservist who served in Afghanistan, Buttigieg has the kind of background that could appeal to both moderates and progressives in the party.  But questions will persist about whether the mayor of an Indiana city of 100,000 residents is ready to run a nation of 330 million.   (Reporting by James Oliphant; Editing by Colleen Jenkins, Jonathan Oatis and Nick Zieminski)Supported by By Astead W. Herndon and Jonathan Martin MEMPHIS — On a Sunday afternoon earlier this month, Senator Elizabeth Warren began a swing through the South by proclaiming that she was running “a different type of campaign” — one that did not include high-dollar fund-raisers but was entirely reliant on grass-roots contributions. “If you think that’s a good idea, go to ElizabethWarren.com,” she told about 500 people at a town hall-style event in Memphis, adding: “Pitch in five bucks, do whatever you can.” The next morning she woke up to some news about a surge in small-dollar contributions, but it wasn’t for her: Former Representative Beto O’Rourke had raised $6.1 million in the first 24 hours of his candidacy. It was another blow to a candidate who has spent the first months of the Democratic presidential primary campaign seeking to distinguish herself from the field: She was the first major candidate to announce; she has set the pace on policy, unveiling a series of far-reaching proposals on child care, taxes and the role of large technology companies; and she defied the pleas of her longtime finance director and declared that she would stop pursuing big donations altogether, leading to his resignation. But as the first fund-raising deadline arrives at midnight on Sunday, Ms. Warren — who last year was widely considered a would-be front-runner — finds herself in a political vise. Her rivals on either ideological flank will raise substantially more money in the first quarter than she does, and her focus on policy has not yet translated in the polls. Ms. Warren’s early troubles reflect the broader challenges confronting the vast Democratic field, all vying for money and attention as they seek to dethrone President Trump. Harvesting online donations does not come easily to noncelebrity candidates, and the party’s longstanding fascination with youthful charisma — along with its current, Trump-driven fixation on electability — can outweigh qualities like experience or policy expertise. [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join the conversation around the 2020 presidential race.] The decision of Senator Bernie Sanders, Ms. Warren’s longtime friend and fellow populist, to run again has cut into her money and her potential share of the vote on the left. And Democrats like Mr. O’Rourke, Senator Kamala Harris and Mayor Pete Buttigieg of South Bend, Ind., have offered a party eager to find fresh faces a handful from which to choose. “If Warren says, ‘I can’t raise enough money, so my way to win is through an aggressive field operation because I have fired-up volunteers,’ well, Bernie and Beto can say, ‘O.K., well, we can do both,’” said Rufus Gifford, the finance director in former President Barack Obama’s re-election campaign. Ms. Warren has also faced persistent questions about her electability from Democratic voters desperate to oust President Trump. These concerns grew when she released the results of a DNA test last year showing she had distant Native American ancestry, and was immediately ridiculed by Mr. Trump. Her staff is sensitive enough about the “but can she win” concerns that last week it issued a lengthy campaign memo, in the guise of a fund-raising email, detailing her platform and résumé while offering a reminder that she is the only candidate who in recent years has defeated a statewide Republican incumbent. In an interview Thursday at the Washington office of one her consultants, Ms. Warren began making her electability case more explicit, invoking her seven-and-a-half-point defeat of Scott Brown seven years ago. “It’s what people said in Massachusetts in 2012,” she recalled about a race in which she also lagged in early polls, adding triumphantly, “I’ve started out down and I’ve come back and fought and fought and fought until, I didn’t squeak by, I beat him and beat him hard.” Ms. Warren has good reason to remain optimistic — or at least not to panic just yet. Even if she struggles to raise money in the early going, she can finance her ambitious campaign thanks to the $10 million aides say she has transferred from her Senate campaign account. And the contours of the 2020 race are nothing if not uncertain. Ms. Warren does not face the sort of unease within factions of the party that Mr. Sanders and former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. do, and presidential history is littered with examples of candidates who surged late when other contenders unraveled. [Keep up with the 2020 field with our candidate tracker.] However, the history of Democratic primaries is also filled with would-be reformers who fell short because they chiefly appealed to white voters — and that is who dominates Ms. Warren’s audiences, even in a heavily black city like Memphis. “It was noticeable,” said Jennings Bernard, a longtime pastor and political activist, who attended Ms. Warren’s event here. “The concerns of the people in this audience are not the concerns of this community.” In the interview, Ms. Warren offered little explanation for why her policy-filled, 43-stops-and-counting campaign has not inspired a groundswell of small-donor support or gotten her more traction in early polling. “Good ideas are sustaining over time,” she said hopefully. While she is an unmistakably fierce competitor, Ms. Warren is most animated discussing her progressive policy vision. In separate interviews, two of her friends said without prompting that she did not crave the presidency as some other candidates do and would be content if her agenda prevailed but she lost the nomination. Asked if she would be happy with such an outcome, Ms. Warren answered quickly, “I’d be a lot happier than I would be if none of those ideas made it into law,” before returning to safer ground by arguing that “it’s going to take somebody fighting for those changes.” [Ms. Warren said “Joe Biden needs to give ananswer’’ to allegations that he touched and kissed a former Nevada assemblywoman.] While she betrayed no irritation about Mr. Sanders’s decision to run again, or the media attention and money that less-experienced candidates like Mr. O’Rourke and Mr. Buttigieg have drawn — “it’s 11 months out,” she noted, referring to the first primary voting — some of her admirers are more forthcoming. “It’s a little frustrating to see some candidates coming in — whether Beto or whoever — and start getting a lot of attention when they do not have the same résumé of other candidates,” said Kathy Sullivan, a former New Hampshire Democratic chairwoman who has not yet endorsed in the race. Making clear that her exasperation was on behalf of some of the female candidates, Ms. Sullivan added, “But there’s nothing new about that, we’ve always had to do it backward and in heels.” Other Democrats worry about what they describe as the political version of post-traumatic stress disorder following Hillary Clinton’s stunning loss. Questions of viability, party officials say, have become overwhelming to the point that activists are uncertain about following their instincts out of fear they will nominate someone who will lose to Mr. Trump. “We’re so traumatized by 2016 that we’re afraid to trust our hearts and that’s turning us all into pundits,” said Adam Jentleson, a longtime Senate Democratic aide who supports Ms. Warren. “Overthinking and voting for a candidate we like less but who we think other people will like more is the path to ending up with a candidate no one likes very much.” Mr. Trump, who has long relished taunting Ms. Warren with the “Pocahontas” slur, has already declared victory. In an interview on Fox News last week, Mr. Trump said, “I hit her too hard, too early and now it looks like she’s finished.” Part of Ms. Warren’s challenge owes to timing — she is not the new candidate on the scene the way she would have been four years ago, when progressives lobbied for her to challenge Mrs. Clinton. “There were artificially high expectations early on because there was so much interest in her in 2016,” said Jennifer Palmieri, a top aide to Mrs. Clinton in the last race. “Everybody loves you when you’re the one who’s not in the race, and once you get in you’re a mortal and have to slog it out. That doesn’t mean you can’t come back and win — it’s just a different type of race.”  Ms. Warren’s most immediate challenge, though, may be money. She raised only $299,000 in the first day of her candidacy, far below the $5.9 million and $6.1 million Mr. Sanders and Mr. O’Rourke brought in for the same period and also less than Ms. Harris. In emails to supporters, asking for as little as $3, her campaign flatly says her rivals will post “fund-raising figures we won’t be able to match.” And after demonstrating little capacity to raise cash online, Ms. Warren effectively doubled down on small-dollar contributions, announcing last month that she would no longer hold big-money fund-raisers or seek wealthy donors to bundle hundreds of thousands of dollars in checks. She cast it as a decision long in the making that will offer her more time with voters. In truth, she made the choice only after a robust debate inside her campaign that led to the resignation of her finance director, Michael Pratt, who strenuously objected to the idea. At a Valentine’s Day meeting at Ms. Warren’s Washington condominium that began with a heart-shaped cake but soon grew heated, Mr. Pratt noted that campaigns often collapse when they run out of money and pleaded with her not to cut off a significant cash stream, according to Democrats briefed on the conversation. He pointed out that winning over wealthy fund-raisers across the country helped build networks that could translate into political support, not just checks. But Mr. Pratt lost the argument to two of Ms. Warren’s closest advisers, Dan Geldon and Joe Rospars, who made the case about standing apart from the field and freeing up her schedule. Mr. Pratt is not the only veteran adviser absent from this campaign. Among the others who are not involved are Mindy Myers, who ran the winning Senate race against Mr. Brown in 2012 and became chief of staff; the pollster Tom Kiley; and two ad makers, Mandy Grunwald and Marla Romash. (Mr. Kiley retired and Ms. Grunwald is staying out of Ms. Warren’s presidential campaign entirely because she has another client in the race, Senator Amy Klobuchar). Ms. Warren chose not to air the ads Ms. Grunwald and Ms. Romash made for her Senate re-election last year, determining that she was better off husbanding her resources than trying to establish herself with New Hampshire voters who live in the Boston media market. That saved her much of the cash she has since transferred to her presidential campaign, but it has also left her lagging in early New Hampshire polls. Those polls may not mean much if her fund-raising gamble pays off and she can emerge later this year, after a series of nationally televised debates and dozens more events like the one in Memphis. Wilnelia Rivera, a Boston political strategist who helped orchestrate Representative Ayanna Pressley’s primary victory in 2018, said that while a grass-roots strategy was often derided, she believed Ms. Warren could alter the way presidential campaigns are run if she becomes the nominee. “They’re up to something,” Ms. Rivera said of Ms. Warren’s campaign. “What that is? I have no idea. But we’re paying a lot of attention. Because she’s doing something that’s innovative.”    

Supported by By Astead W. Herndon and Jonathan Martin MEMPHIS — On a Sunday afternoon earlier this month, Senator Elizabeth Warren began a swing through the South by proclaiming that she was running “a different type of campaign” — one that did not include high-dollar fund-raisers but was entirely reliant on grass-roots contributions. “If you think that’s a good idea, go to ElizabethWarren.com,” she told about 500 people at a town hall-style event in Memphis, adding: “Pitch in five bucks, do whatever you can.” The next morning she woke up to some news about a surge in small-dollar contributions, but it wasn’t for her: Former Representative Beto O’Rourke had raised $6.1 million in the first 24 hours of his candidacy. It was another blow to a candidate who has spent the first months of the Democratic presidential primary campaign seeking to distinguish herself from the field: She was the first major candidate to announce; she has set the pace on policy, unveiling a series of far-reaching proposals on child care, taxes and the role of large technology companies; and she defied the pleas of her longtime finance director and declared that she would stop pursuing big donations altogether, leading to his resignation. But as the first fund-raising deadline arrives at midnight on Sunday, Ms. Warren — who last year was widely considered a would-be front-runner — finds herself in a political vise. Her rivals on either ideological flank will raise substantially more money in the first quarter than she does, and her focus on policy has not yet translated in the polls. Ms. Warren’s early troubles reflect the broader challenges confronting the vast Democratic field, all vying for money and attention as they seek to dethrone President Trump. Harvesting online donations does not come easily to noncelebrity candidates, and the party’s longstanding fascination with youthful charisma — along with its current, Trump-driven fixation on electability — can outweigh qualities like experience or policy expertise. [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join the conversation around the 2020 presidential race.] The decision of Senator Bernie Sanders, Ms. Warren’s longtime friend and fellow populist, to run again has cut into her money and her potential share of the vote on the left. And Democrats like Mr. O’Rourke, Senator Kamala Harris and Mayor Pete Buttigieg of South Bend, Ind., have offered a party eager to find fresh faces a handful from which to choose. “If Warren says, ‘I can’t raise enough money, so my way to win is through an aggressive field operation because I have fired-up volunteers,’ well, Bernie and Beto can say, ‘O.K., well, we can do both,’” said Rufus Gifford, the finance director in former President Barack Obama’s re-election campaign. Ms. Warren has also faced persistent questions about her electability from Democratic voters desperate to oust President Trump. These concerns grew when she released the results of a DNA test last year showing she had distant Native American ancestry, and was immediately ridiculed by Mr. Trump. Her staff is sensitive enough about the “but can she win” concerns that last week it issued a lengthy campaign memo, in the guise of a fund-raising email, detailing her platform and résumé while offering a reminder that she is the only candidate who in recent years has defeated a statewide Republican incumbent. In an interview Thursday at the Washington office of one her consultants, Ms. Warren began making her electability case more explicit, invoking her seven-and-a-half-point defeat of Scott Brown seven years ago. “It’s what people said in Massachusetts in 2012,” she recalled about a race in which she also lagged in early polls, adding triumphantly, “I’ve started out down and I’ve come back and fought and fought and fought until, I didn’t squeak by, I beat him and beat him hard.” Ms. Warren has good reason to remain optimistic — or at least not to panic just yet. Even if she struggles to raise money in the early going, she can finance her ambitious campaign thanks to the $10 million aides say she has transferred from her Senate campaign account. And the contours of the 2020 race are nothing if not uncertain. Ms. Warren does not face the sort of unease within factions of the party that Mr. Sanders and former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. do, and presidential history is littered with examples of candidates who surged late when other contenders unraveled. [Keep up with the 2020 field with our candidate tracker.] However, the history of Democratic primaries is also filled with would-be reformers who fell short because they chiefly appealed to white voters — and that is who dominates Ms. Warren’s audiences, even in a heavily black city like Memphis. “It was noticeable,” said Jennings Bernard, a longtime pastor and political activist, who attended Ms. Warren’s event here. “The concerns of the people in this audience are not the concerns of this community.” In the interview, Ms. Warren offered little explanation for why her policy-filled, 43-stops-and-counting campaign has not inspired a groundswell of small-donor support or gotten her more traction in early polling. “Good ideas are sustaining over time,” she said hopefully. While she is an unmistakably fierce competitor, Ms. Warren is most animated discussing her progressive policy vision. In separate interviews, two of her friends said without prompting that she did not crave the presidency as some other candidates do and would be content if her agenda prevailed but she lost the nomination. Asked if she would be happy with such an outcome, Ms. Warren answered quickly, “I’d be a lot happier than I would be if none of those ideas made it into law,” before returning to safer ground by arguing that “it’s going to take somebody fighting for those changes.” [Ms. Warren said “Joe Biden needs to give ananswer’’ to allegations that he touched and kissed a former Nevada assemblywoman.] While she betrayed no irritation about Mr. Sanders’s decision to run again, or the media attention and money that less-experienced candidates like Mr. O’Rourke and Mr. Buttigieg have drawn — “it’s 11 months out,” she noted, referring to the first primary voting — some of her admirers are more forthcoming. “It’s a little frustrating to see some candidates coming in — whether Beto or whoever — and start getting a lot of attention when they do not have the same résumé of other candidates,” said Kathy Sullivan, a former New Hampshire Democratic chairwoman who has not yet endorsed in the race. Making clear that her exasperation was on behalf of some of the female candidates, Ms. Sullivan added, “But there’s nothing new about that, we’ve always had to do it backward and in heels.” Other Democrats worry about what they describe as the political version of post-traumatic stress disorder following Hillary Clinton’s stunning loss. Questions of viability, party officials say, have become overwhelming to the point that activists are uncertain about following their instincts out of fear they will nominate someone who will lose to Mr. Trump. “We’re so traumatized by 2016 that we’re afraid to trust our hearts and that’s turning us all into pundits,” said Adam Jentleson, a longtime Senate Democratic aide who supports Ms. Warren. “Overthinking and voting for a candidate we like less but who we think other people will like more is the path to ending up with a candidate no one likes very much.” Mr. Trump, who has long relished taunting Ms. Warren with the “Pocahontas” slur, has already declared victory. In an interview on Fox News last week, Mr. Trump said, “I hit her too hard, too early and now it looks like she’s finished.” Part of Ms. Warren’s challenge owes to timing — she is not the new candidate on the scene the way she would have been four years ago, when progressives lobbied for her to challenge Mrs. Clinton. “There were artificially high expectations early on because there was so much interest in her in 2016,” said Jennifer Palmieri, a top aide to Mrs. Clinton in the last race. “Everybody loves you when you’re the one who’s not in the race, and once you get in you’re a mortal and have to slog it out. That doesn’t mean you can’t come back and win — it’s just a different type of race.”  Ms. Warren’s most immediate challenge, though, may be money. She raised only $299,000 in the first day of her candidacy, far below the $5.9 million and $6.1 million Mr. Sanders and Mr. O’Rourke brought in for the same period and also less than Ms. Harris. In emails to supporters, asking for as little as $3, her campaign flatly says her rivals will post “fund-raising figures we won’t be able to match.” And after demonstrating little capacity to raise cash online, Ms. Warren effectively doubled down on small-dollar contributions, announcing last month that she would no longer hold big-money fund-raisers or seek wealthy donors to bundle hundreds of thousands of dollars in checks. She cast it as a decision long in the making that will offer her more time with voters. In truth, she made the choice only after a robust debate inside her campaign that led to the resignation of her finance director, Michael Pratt, who strenuously objected to the idea. At a Valentine’s Day meeting at Ms. Warren’s Washington condominium that began with a heart-shaped cake but soon grew heated, Mr. Pratt noted that campaigns often collapse when they run out of money and pleaded with her not to cut off a significant cash stream, according to Democrats briefed on the conversation. He pointed out that winning over wealthy fund-raisers across the country helped build networks that could translate into political support, not just checks. But Mr. Pratt lost the argument to two of Ms. Warren’s closest advisers, Dan Geldon and Joe Rospars, who made the case about standing apart from the field and freeing up her schedule. Mr. Pratt is not the only veteran adviser absent from this campaign. Among the others who are not involved are Mindy Myers, who ran the winning Senate race against Mr. Brown in 2012 and became chief of staff; the pollster Tom Kiley; and two ad makers, Mandy Grunwald and Marla Romash. (Mr. Kiley retired and Ms. Grunwald is staying out of Ms. Warren’s presidential campaign entirely because she has another client in the race, Senator Amy Klobuchar). Ms. Warren chose not to air the ads Ms. Grunwald and Ms. Romash made for her Senate re-election last year, determining that she was better off husbanding her resources than trying to establish herself with New Hampshire voters who live in the Boston media market. That saved her much of the cash she has since transferred to her presidential campaign, but it has also left her lagging in early New Hampshire polls. Those polls may not mean much if her fund-raising gamble pays off and she can emerge later this year, after a series of nationally televised debates and dozens more events like the one in Memphis. Wilnelia Rivera, a Boston political strategist who helped orchestrate Representative Ayanna Pressley’s primary victory in 2018, said that while a grass-roots strategy was often derided, she believed Ms. Warren could alter the way presidential campaigns are run if she becomes the nominee. “They’re up to something,” Ms. Rivera said of Ms. Warren’s campaign. “What that is? I have no idea. But we’re paying a lot of attention. Because she’s doing something that’s innovative.”    Supported by By The Associated Press A roundup of some of the most popular but completely untrue stories and visuals of the week. None of these is legit, even though they were shared widely on social media. The Associated Press checked these out. Here are the real facts: __ CLAIM: Rep. Ilhan Omar files $100 million lawsuit against Fox News host Jeanine Pirro. THE FACTS: Social media posts falsely assert that the Democratic congresswoman, a Muslim, is suing Pirro, who last month questioned on her show if Omar's wearing of a hijab is "antithetical to the U.S. Constitution." No such lawsuit has been filed in any federal court this year, according to public records. Additionally, no lawsuits listing Pirro as a defendant in New York, where Fox News is headquartered, or Omar's home state of Minnesota have been filed. "This is false," Jeremy Slevin, a spokesman for Omar, confirmed in an email to The Associated Press. Pirro's Saturday show "Justice with Judge Jeanine" was absent from Fox News programming for two weeks after her controversial comments about Omar's religious headwear. It has since returned. ___ CLAIM: Beto O'Rourke's biggest donor is liberal financier George Soros through the JStreetPAC. THE FACTS: Soros is not O'Rourke's largest donor, as suggested in Facebook posts that include photos of the men. Soros gave a maximum individual contribution of $2,700 to O'Rourke's U.S. Senate campaign in 2017, according to campaign finance records. The post wrongly suggests Soros donated $71,885 to the JStreetPAC, a political action committee that directed donors to O'Rourke's Senate campaign. The JStreet PAC, which supports a two-state solution in Israel, raised a combined $250,196 from individual donors for O'Rourke's Senate campaign. None of those donors was Soros. The PAC did not directly give any funds give to O'Rourke. Instead, JStreetPAC facilitated individual contributions to him by encouraging its followers to donate to the Democratic candidate on its website and at fundraisers. Soros donates to JStreet, a lobbying arm that is financially separate from JStreetPAC. Fundraising data for O'Rourke's presidential campaign will not be released until next week, but Soros has not donated to that campaign either through the JStreet PAC, said Ben Shnider, the vice president of political affairs strategy for JStreet. ___ CLAIM: Nike has just chosen to re-hire Michael Vick to represent their brand. THE FACTS: Nike has not re-signed Vick, a former pro-football star who pleaded guilty to dog fighting in 2007, despite reports circulating widely this week on social media. The claims relied on an article from 2011 when the sports shoe and apparel company re-signed Vick to an endorsement deal after he was released from prison. Josh Benedek, a Nike spokesman, told The Associated Press in an email that Nike does not have an existing contract with Vick. According to AP reports, Nike signed Vick in 2001 when he was a rookie in the NFL but ended his contract in 2007 after he was charged in relation to a dog-fighting ring. He served more than 18 months in prison and returned to football. In 2010, he was named AP Comeback Player of the Year after having the best all-around year of his career. ___ This is part of The Associated Press' ongoing effort to fact-check misinformation that is shared widely online. ___ Find all AP Fact Checks here: https://www.apnews.com/tag/APFactCheck ___

Supported by By The Associated Press A roundup of some of the most popular but completely untrue stories and visuals of the week. None of these is legit, even though they were shared widely on social media. The Associated Press checked these out. Here are the real facts: __ CLAIM: Rep. Ilhan Omar files $100 million lawsuit against Fox News host Jeanine Pirro. THE FACTS: Social media posts falsely assert that the Democratic congresswoman, a Muslim, is suing Pirro, who last month questioned on her show if Omar's wearing of a hijab is "antithetical to the U.S. Constitution." No such lawsuit has been filed in any federal court this year, according to public records. Additionally, no lawsuits listing Pirro as a defendant in New York, where Fox News is headquartered, or Omar's home state of Minnesota have been filed. "This is false," Jeremy Slevin, a spokesman for Omar, confirmed in an email to The Associated Press. Pirro's Saturday show "Justice with Judge Jeanine" was absent from Fox News programming for two weeks after her controversial comments about Omar's religious headwear. It has since returned. ___ CLAIM: Beto O'Rourke's biggest donor is liberal financier George Soros through the JStreetPAC. THE FACTS: Soros is not O'Rourke's largest donor, as suggested in Facebook posts that include photos of the men. Soros gave a maximum individual contribution of $2,700 to O'Rourke's U.S. Senate campaign in 2017, according to campaign finance records. The post wrongly suggests Soros donated $71,885 to the JStreetPAC, a political action committee that directed donors to O'Rourke's Senate campaign. The JStreet PAC, which supports a two-state solution in Israel, raised a combined $250,196 from individual donors for O'Rourke's Senate campaign. None of those donors was Soros. The PAC did not directly give any funds give to O'Rourke. Instead, JStreetPAC facilitated individual contributions to him by encouraging its followers to donate to the Democratic candidate on its website and at fundraisers. Soros donates to JStreet, a lobbying arm that is financially separate from JStreetPAC. Fundraising data for O'Rourke's presidential campaign will not be released until next week, but Soros has not donated to that campaign either through the JStreet PAC, said Ben Shnider, the vice president of political affairs strategy for JStreet. ___ CLAIM: Nike has just chosen to re-hire Michael Vick to represent their brand. THE FACTS: Nike has not re-signed Vick, a former pro-football star who pleaded guilty to dog fighting in 2007, despite reports circulating widely this week on social media. The claims relied on an article from 2011 when the sports shoe and apparel company re-signed Vick to an endorsement deal after he was released from prison. Josh Benedek, a Nike spokesman, told The Associated Press in an email that Nike does not have an existing contract with Vick. According to AP reports, Nike signed Vick in 2001 when he was a rookie in the NFL but ended his contract in 2007 after he was charged in relation to a dog-fighting ring. He served more than 18 months in prison and returned to football. In 2010, he was named AP Comeback Player of the Year after having the best all-around year of his career. ___ This is part of The Associated Press' ongoing effort to fact-check misinformation that is shared widely online. ___ Find all AP Fact Checks here: https://www.apnews.com/tag/APFactCheck ___Supported by By Reuters NEWARK, N.J. — U.S. Senator Cory Booker held the first major rally of his presidential campaign on Saturday in the city that launched his political career, saying America "can't wait" any longer to address the country's deep divisions and urgent problems. The rally took place in Newark, New Jersey, Booker's adopted hometown, where he built a national profile as mayor from 2006 to 2013 before winning a Senate seat. The event, which kicked off a two-week "Justice for All" multistate campaign tour, comes as Booker, 49, remains wedged in the middle of a crowded pack of Democratic hopefuls. Booker's 30-minute speech relied on some of the same themes of unity and compassion that he has touted throughout his campaign, arguing that defeating U.S. President Donald Trump in 2020 will require an inclusive approach to combat the Republican chief executive's often no-holds-barred brand of politics. "We have to decide whether we will choose division and blame - or if we will do the hard work of conquering fear with faith, apathy with action, and hatred with love," Booker said. "The president wants a race to the gutter and to fight us in the gutter. To win, we have to fight from higher ground in order to bring this country to higher ground." Booker also laid out a specific liberal policy vision, even as he warned that Democratic voters should favor pragmatism over ideological purity. He vowed to pursue Medicare-for-all, legalize marijuana, end mass incarceration and create "baby bonds" - government-backed savings accounts designed to close the racial wealth gap. The high-profile rally marked a shift for the Booker campaign, which thus far has emphasized more intimate events in key early voting states to introduce him to voters while building up staff on the ground. Booker has centered much of his campaign on his record in Newark, an economically troubled city that has nevertheless seen a revival during and after his tenure. But he has yet to see his campaign have the same sort of bounce that rivals such as Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Indiana, and U.S. Senator Kamala Harris of California have enjoyed. Booker has stubbornly remained around sixth or seventh in opinion polls among the 18 Democrats who have entered the race. Campaign aides this week dismissed concerns about those numbers. "You've got to organize and got to get hot at the end," Booker's campaign manager, Addisu Demissie, told reporters on Thursday. "We're not building this campaign to win polls in April 2019. This is a long race and there are going to be a lot of ups and downs." Booker sought to connect his call to action on Saturday with the civil rights movement, noting that the date of the rally, April 13, was the same day that Martin Luther King Jr began writing his famous "Letter from Birmingham Jail" while sitting in an Alabama cell in 1963. "He spoke to the possibility of what we can achieve when we realize our own power and refuse to wait," Booker said. "America, we know our history - it is a perpetual testimony to impatient, demanding, unrelenting people who in every generation with love stood up for justice."  (Reporting by Joseph Ax; Editing by Frank McGurty, Bill Berkrot and Jonathan Oatis)

Supported by By Reuters NEWARK, N.J. — U.S. Senator Cory Booker held the first major rally of his presidential campaign on Saturday in the city that launched his political career, saying America "can't wait" any longer to address the country's deep divisions and urgent problems. The rally took place in Newark, New Jersey, Booker's adopted hometown, where he built a national profile as mayor from 2006 to 2013 before winning a Senate seat. The event, which kicked off a two-week "Justice for All" multistate campaign tour, comes as Booker, 49, remains wedged in the middle of a crowded pack of Democratic hopefuls. Booker's 30-minute speech relied on some of the same themes of unity and compassion that he has touted throughout his campaign, arguing that defeating U.S. President Donald Trump in 2020 will require an inclusive approach to combat the Republican chief executive's often no-holds-barred brand of politics. "We have to decide whether we will choose division and blame - or if we will do the hard work of conquering fear with faith, apathy with action, and hatred with love," Booker said. "The president wants a race to the gutter and to fight us in the gutter. To win, we have to fight from higher ground in order to bring this country to higher ground." Booker also laid out a specific liberal policy vision, even as he warned that Democratic voters should favor pragmatism over ideological purity. He vowed to pursue Medicare-for-all, legalize marijuana, end mass incarceration and create "baby bonds" - government-backed savings accounts designed to close the racial wealth gap. The high-profile rally marked a shift for the Booker campaign, which thus far has emphasized more intimate events in key early voting states to introduce him to voters while building up staff on the ground. Booker has centered much of his campaign on his record in Newark, an economically troubled city that has nevertheless seen a revival during and after his tenure. But he has yet to see his campaign have the same sort of bounce that rivals such as Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Indiana, and U.S. Senator Kamala Harris of California have enjoyed. Booker has stubbornly remained around sixth or seventh in opinion polls among the 18 Democrats who have entered the race. Campaign aides this week dismissed concerns about those numbers. "You've got to organize and got to get hot at the end," Booker's campaign manager, Addisu Demissie, told reporters on Thursday. "We're not building this campaign to win polls in April 2019. This is a long race and there are going to be a lot of ups and downs." Booker sought to connect his call to action on Saturday with the civil rights movement, noting that the date of the rally, April 13, was the same day that Martin Luther King Jr began writing his famous "Letter from Birmingham Jail" while sitting in an Alabama cell in 1963. "He spoke to the possibility of what we can achieve when we realize our own power and refuse to wait," Booker said. "America, we know our history - it is a perpetual testimony to impatient, demanding, unrelenting people who in every generation with love stood up for justice."  (Reporting by Joseph Ax; Editing by Frank McGurty, Bill Berkrot and Jonathan Oatis)Supported by By Michael M. Grynbaum Sarah Isgur Flores, a Republican political operative whose hiring by CNN last month set off an uproar among liberals and several Democratic presidential campaigns, will no longer take on a management role at the network, CNN said on Friday. Instead, Ms. Isgur, who was the chief spokeswoman for former Attorney General Jeff Sessions, said she would be an on-air political analyst for CNN, a more traditional entry-level role for government officials who pursue television careers. She will also occasionally write commentary for the network’s website. When Ms. Isgur’s position — initially described as a “political editor,” with a role in coordinating CNN’s 2020 campaign coverage — was announced three weeks ago, it set off confusion and frustration inside the cable network and Democratic political circles. Several journalists at CNN voiced concerns about the hire. They questioned how a partisan spokeswoman and recent alumna of President Trump’s administration, who had stayed on at the Justice Department after Mr. Sessions’s departure in November, could be granted a senior journalistic role at the network. And representatives of several presidential candidates contacted the Democratic National Committee to ask if CNN, with Ms. Isgur in a senior editing position, could be trusted to cover their campaigns fairly. CNN is set to host a Democratic primary debate in July; the network eventually issued statements saying that Ms. Isgur would not play a role in debates or candidate town halls. Ms. Isgur, whose contract at the network goes into effect next week, announced her new position in a Twitter post on Friday. “I will go to CNN as a Political Analyst instead,” she wrote. “Will start next month on air and on line. See y’all soon!” Reached by email, Ms. Isgur declined to comment further. “When Sarah came to us and proposed her role be adjusted to a political analyst instead, we agreed, and we look forward to her starting in that role,” a CNN spokeswoman said in a statement. CNN has hired reporters from conservative-leaning news outlets and organizations, saying that ideological diversity can be a boon to well-rounded coverage. It is unusual, however, for news networks to place a former government official directly into a role managing other journalists. For instance, George Stephanopoulos, who is now the chief anchor of ABC News, was hired by the network as a partisan member of a Sunday political panel after he left President Bill Clinton’s staff in 1996. Ms. Isgur was critical of CNN while working on Republican campaigns, including in 2015, when she complained that the network had excluded her candidate at the time, Carly Fiorina, from participating in a presidential debate. She also attacked one of Ms. Fiorina’s rivals for the Republican nomination: Donald J. Trump.  

Supported by By Michael M. Grynbaum Sarah Isgur Flores, a Republican political operative whose hiring by CNN last month set off an uproar among liberals and several Democratic presidential campaigns, will no longer take on a management role at the network, CNN said on Friday. Instead, Ms. Isgur, who was the chief spokeswoman for former Attorney General Jeff Sessions, said she would be an on-air political analyst for CNN, a more traditional entry-level role for government officials who pursue television careers. She will also occasionally write commentary for the network’s website. When Ms. Isgur’s position — initially described as a “political editor,” with a role in coordinating CNN’s 2020 campaign coverage — was announced three weeks ago, it set off confusion and frustration inside the cable network and Democratic political circles. Several journalists at CNN voiced concerns about the hire. They questioned how a partisan spokeswoman and recent alumna of President Trump’s administration, who had stayed on at the Justice Department after Mr. Sessions’s departure in November, could be granted a senior journalistic role at the network. And representatives of several presidential candidates contacted the Democratic National Committee to ask if CNN, with Ms. Isgur in a senior editing position, could be trusted to cover their campaigns fairly. CNN is set to host a Democratic primary debate in July; the network eventually issued statements saying that Ms. Isgur would not play a role in debates or candidate town halls. Ms. Isgur, whose contract at the network goes into effect next week, announced her new position in a Twitter post on Friday. “I will go to CNN as a Political Analyst instead,” she wrote. “Will start next month on air and on line. See y’all soon!” Reached by email, Ms. Isgur declined to comment further. “When Sarah came to us and proposed her role be adjusted to a political analyst instead, we agreed, and we look forward to her starting in that role,” a CNN spokeswoman said in a statement. CNN has hired reporters from conservative-leaning news outlets and organizations, saying that ideological diversity can be a boon to well-rounded coverage. It is unusual, however, for news networks to place a former government official directly into a role managing other journalists. For instance, George Stephanopoulos, who is now the chief anchor of ABC News, was hired by the network as a partisan member of a Sunday political panel after he left President Bill Clinton’s staff in 1996. Ms. Isgur was critical of CNN while working on Republican campaigns, including in 2015, when she complained that the network had excluded her candidate at the time, Carly Fiorina, from participating in a presidential debate. She also attacked one of Ms. Fiorina’s rivals for the Republican nomination: Donald J. Trump.  Supported by Good Wednesday morning. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today. _____________________ • President Trump has adopted a blunt new message in recent days for migrants seeking refuge in the United States: “Our country is full.” But an aging population and declining birthrate among the native-born population — as well as underpopulated cities and towns — signal the complete opposite. • At Mr. Trump’s luxurious resorts in Florida, young foreigners on temporary visas work poolside, in bars and in spas. Workers without papers have maintained the golf course, hired through staffing agencies that protect the Trump Organization from liability. • The Trump administration denied that it would bring back the president’s policy of separating migrant families. It instead plans to push for tougher screening of asylum seekers, making it vastly more difficult for migrants to win protection in the United States. • In his first 100 days as the president’s acting chief of staff, Mick Mulvaney has assumed a central role in Mr. Trump’s circle by encouraging, rather than restraining, the president’s conservative instincts. • Attorney General William P. Barr vowed on Tuesday to release a redacted version of the Mueller report “within a week.” • The Justice Department’s inspector general intends to complete his own investigation into aspects of the Russia inquiry by May or June, including whether law enforcement officials abused their powers in surveilling a former Trump campaign aide. • Secretary of State Mike Pompeo’s silence on a potential Israeli move to annex the West Bank was a break with previous administrations, which had discouraged any such action. • Israelis went to the polls Tuesday to elect a prime minister. According to preliminary results, Benjamin Netanyahu, who is facing likely indictment, appeared poised to beat his chief rival, Benny Gantz. • A congressional request for Mr. Trump’s tax returns has put one of his most loyal aides, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, at the center of what is shaping up to be an extraordinary legal battle between two branches of the United States government. • Senator Bernie Sanders said that he would release 10 years of tax returns by Tax Day on Monday. And he acknowledged his best-selling book threw him into the ranks of the millionaires he has denounced for years. • How is a presidential campaign different from a presidential “movement”? It’s not really clear. But the latter is in vogue in the 2020 race. • Today’s Democratic Party is perceived as dominated by its left wing. But the views of Democrats on social media often bear little resemblance to those of the wider Democratic electorate. Here’s a data-driven look at the party’s true, though underrepresented, ideology. • Facing opposition from both the Democratic Party’s liberal wing and fiscal hawks, House Democrats delayed voting on a two-year budget that would increase military and domestic spending. • In white words against a black backdrop, the frames scroll by: “First They Ignore You,” “Then They Laugh at You,” “Then They Call You Racist.” But the video, which Mr. Trump shared on Twitter on Tuesday — before it was taken down because of an apparent copyright complaint — was not a product of his 2020 campaign. Officials said it was made by a supporter. _____________________ Today’s On Politics briefing was compiled by Isabella Grullón Paz in New York. Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.

Supported by Good Wednesday morning. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today. _____________________ • President Trump has adopted a blunt new message in recent days for migrants seeking refuge in the United States: “Our country is full.” But an aging population and declining birthrate among the native-born population — as well as underpopulated cities and towns — signal the complete opposite. • At Mr. Trump’s luxurious resorts in Florida, young foreigners on temporary visas work poolside, in bars and in spas. Workers without papers have maintained the golf course, hired through staffing agencies that protect the Trump Organization from liability. • The Trump administration denied that it would bring back the president’s policy of separating migrant families. It instead plans to push for tougher screening of asylum seekers, making it vastly more difficult for migrants to win protection in the United States. • In his first 100 days as the president’s acting chief of staff, Mick Mulvaney has assumed a central role in Mr. Trump’s circle by encouraging, rather than restraining, the president’s conservative instincts. • Attorney General William P. Barr vowed on Tuesday to release a redacted version of the Mueller report “within a week.” • The Justice Department’s inspector general intends to complete his own investigation into aspects of the Russia inquiry by May or June, including whether law enforcement officials abused their powers in surveilling a former Trump campaign aide. • Secretary of State Mike Pompeo’s silence on a potential Israeli move to annex the West Bank was a break with previous administrations, which had discouraged any such action. • Israelis went to the polls Tuesday to elect a prime minister. According to preliminary results, Benjamin Netanyahu, who is facing likely indictment, appeared poised to beat his chief rival, Benny Gantz. • A congressional request for Mr. Trump’s tax returns has put one of his most loyal aides, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, at the center of what is shaping up to be an extraordinary legal battle between two branches of the United States government. • Senator Bernie Sanders said that he would release 10 years of tax returns by Tax Day on Monday. And he acknowledged his best-selling book threw him into the ranks of the millionaires he has denounced for years. • How is a presidential campaign different from a presidential “movement”? It’s not really clear. But the latter is in vogue in the 2020 race. • Today’s Democratic Party is perceived as dominated by its left wing. But the views of Democrats on social media often bear little resemblance to those of the wider Democratic electorate. Here’s a data-driven look at the party’s true, though underrepresented, ideology. • Facing opposition from both the Democratic Party’s liberal wing and fiscal hawks, House Democrats delayed voting on a two-year budget that would increase military and domestic spending. • In white words against a black backdrop, the frames scroll by: “First They Ignore You,” “Then They Laugh at You,” “Then They Call You Racist.” But the video, which Mr. Trump shared on Twitter on Tuesday — before it was taken down because of an apparent copyright complaint — was not a product of his 2020 campaign. Officials said it was made by a supporter. _____________________ Today’s On Politics briefing was compiled by Isabella Grullón Paz in New York. Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.Supported by By Sheryl Gay Stolberg WASHINGTON — Senator Bernie Sanders, whose $18 million fund-raising haul has solidified his status as a front-runner for the Democratic presidential nomination, said Tuesday that he would release 10 years of tax returns by Tax Day on Monday and acknowledged that he has joined the ranks of the millionaires he has denounced for years. “April 15 is coming,” Mr. Sanders, whose refusal to release his full past returns has become an issue in the campaign, said in an interview in his office. “We wanted to release 10 years of tax returns. April 15, 2019, will be the 10th year, so I think you will see them.” Told that he was being compared to President Trump, who has refused to release his tax returns, Mr. Sanders got more specific: “On the day in the very immediate future, certainly before April 15, we release ours, I hope that Donald Trump will do exactly the same. We are going to release 10 years of our tax returns, and we hope that on that day Donald Trump will do the same.” Mr. Sanders’s refusal to release his full tax returns was a relatively minor issue in the 2016 Democratic primaries, when Hillary Clinton goaded him to be more transparent. But Mr. Trump’s refusal to release his — and the subsequent effort by House Democrats to force the release — have raised the issue’s profile. Mr. Sanders has bristled at comparisons between his behavior and the president’s. “Not being a billionaire, not having investments in Saudi Arabia, wherever he has investments, all over the world, mine will be a little bit more boring,” Mr. Sanders said. Reminded that he is a millionaire, he did not shirk from the description. “I wrote a best-selling book,” he declared. “If you write a best-selling book, you can be a millionaire, too.” A number of Mr. Sanders’s rivals for the Democratic nomination, including Senator Kirsten Gillibrand of New York, Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota and Gov. Jay Inslee of Washington, have already released their 2018 tax returns, Ms. Gillibrand has made 12 years of her returns public. Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts released 10 years of her returns last year. Mr. Sanders, a Vermont independent, has repeatedly promised to do the same, but has been evasive about his timing, prompting some speculation that he does not want voters to know what is in them. He has said he and his wife, Jane, who serves as an adviser to his presidential campaign, prepare the returns themselves, without an accountant. In 2016, they released 2014 returns showing $205,617 in income, including $156,441 in wages and salary and $46,213 from Social Security benefits. Mr. Sanders — whose trademark on the campaign trail is his attacks on the “millionaires” and the “billionaires” — had consistently ranked among the least wealthy members of the Senate. But since his 2016 run for the presidency, Mr. Sanders’s financial fortunes have improved. His 2017 Senate financial disclosure forms show he earned roughly $1.06 million that year, more than $885,000 from book royalties. His most recent book, “Where We Go From Here,” was published last year. An earlier version of this article misstated the year in which Senator Bernie Sanders and his wife released their 2014 tax returns. It was 2016, not 2014. The article also referred incorrectly to the couple’s summary statement for 2016. The couple did not release a summary statement for that year. Follow Sheryl Gay Stolberg on Twitter: @SherylNYT.  

Supported by By Sheryl Gay Stolberg WASHINGTON — Senator Bernie Sanders, whose $18 million fund-raising haul has solidified his status as a front-runner for the Democratic presidential nomination, said Tuesday that he would release 10 years of tax returns by Tax Day on Monday and acknowledged that he has joined the ranks of the millionaires he has denounced for years. “April 15 is coming,” Mr. Sanders, whose refusal to release his full past returns has become an issue in the campaign, said in an interview in his office. “We wanted to release 10 years of tax returns. April 15, 2019, will be the 10th year, so I think you will see them.” Told that he was being compared to President Trump, who has refused to release his tax returns, Mr. Sanders got more specific: “On the day in the very immediate future, certainly before April 15, we release ours, I hope that Donald Trump will do exactly the same. We are going to release 10 years of our tax returns, and we hope that on that day Donald Trump will do the same.” Mr. Sanders’s refusal to release his full tax returns was a relatively minor issue in the 2016 Democratic primaries, when Hillary Clinton goaded him to be more transparent. But Mr. Trump’s refusal to release his — and the subsequent effort by House Democrats to force the release — have raised the issue’s profile. Mr. Sanders has bristled at comparisons between his behavior and the president’s. “Not being a billionaire, not having investments in Saudi Arabia, wherever he has investments, all over the world, mine will be a little bit more boring,” Mr. Sanders said. Reminded that he is a millionaire, he did not shirk from the description. “I wrote a best-selling book,” he declared. “If you write a best-selling book, you can be a millionaire, too.” A number of Mr. Sanders’s rivals for the Democratic nomination, including Senator Kirsten Gillibrand of New York, Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota and Gov. Jay Inslee of Washington, have already released their 2018 tax returns, Ms. Gillibrand has made 12 years of her returns public. Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts released 10 years of her returns last year. Mr. Sanders, a Vermont independent, has repeatedly promised to do the same, but has been evasive about his timing, prompting some speculation that he does not want voters to know what is in them. He has said he and his wife, Jane, who serves as an adviser to his presidential campaign, prepare the returns themselves, without an accountant. In 2016, they released 2014 returns showing $205,617 in income, including $156,441 in wages and salary and $46,213 from Social Security benefits. Mr. Sanders — whose trademark on the campaign trail is his attacks on the “millionaires” and the “billionaires” — had consistently ranked among the least wealthy members of the Senate. But since his 2016 run for the presidency, Mr. Sanders’s financial fortunes have improved. His 2017 Senate financial disclosure forms show he earned roughly $1.06 million that year, more than $885,000 from book royalties. His most recent book, “Where We Go From Here,” was published last year. An earlier version of this article misstated the year in which Senator Bernie Sanders and his wife released their 2014 tax returns. It was 2016, not 2014. The article also referred incorrectly to the couple’s summary statement for 2016. The couple did not release a summary statement for that year. Follow Sheryl Gay Stolberg on Twitter: @SherylNYT.  Supported by Good Monday morning. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today. _____________________ • In his meeting with Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader, President Trump made a bet that his force of personality and view of himself as a consummate dealmaker would succeed where three previous presidents had failed. But his offer was essentially the same deal that the U.S. has pushed for a quarter-century. • Senator Rand Paul, Republican of Kentucky, appeared to signal support for a resolution that would overturn Mr. Trump’s declaration of a national emergency at the southern border, which would provide the crucial vote needed for the Senate to pass the measure. • In an effort to accommodate Mr. Trump, the nation’s intelligence agencies have revamped their presentations — instead of terrorism or spies, they focus on which countries are making money or gaining financial advantage. • John Hickenlooper is running for president. The two-time Colorado governor is a socially progressive, pro-business Democrat who has called himself an “extreme moderate.” • Mr. Trump addressed CPAC, the annual gathering of conservatives, for over two hours on Saturday. Here is a fact-check of 15 claims from his speech. • Mr. Trump told the CPAC crowd that he planned to issue an executive order that would put universities’ federal aid at risk if they did not protect the viewpoints of students of all political stripes. The issue of free speech on college campuses has for years been a cause célèbre among young conservative activists. • Representative Jerrold Nadler, the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, said on Sunday that he planned to request documents from more than 60 people with ties to Mr. Trump as part of the committee’s investigation of the president. • Senate Democrats are preparing to make combating climate change a central issue of their 2020 campaigns, with daily floor speeches, a special select committee and climate legislation to run on next year. • Democratic leaders are struggling to recruit candidates for the three or four seats necessary to take control of the Senate next year, as many of their best options forsake statewide campaigns for presidential runs. • Democrats had a strong showing in Pennsylvania during the midterm elections. But some there are worried the momentum could screech to a halt if the issues in the 2020 presidential primaries stray too far left for the region’s many centrist voters. • During his last presidential campaign, Senator Bernie Sanders offered a policy-focused message almost entirely devoid of personal details. At a rally in Brooklyn this weekend, he tried something new: He talked about himself. _____________________ Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.

Supported by Good Monday morning. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today. _____________________ • In his meeting with Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader, President Trump made a bet that his force of personality and view of himself as a consummate dealmaker would succeed where three previous presidents had failed. But his offer was essentially the same deal that the U.S. has pushed for a quarter-century. • Senator Rand Paul, Republican of Kentucky, appeared to signal support for a resolution that would overturn Mr. Trump’s declaration of a national emergency at the southern border, which would provide the crucial vote needed for the Senate to pass the measure. • In an effort to accommodate Mr. Trump, the nation’s intelligence agencies have revamped their presentations — instead of terrorism or spies, they focus on which countries are making money or gaining financial advantage. • John Hickenlooper is running for president. The two-time Colorado governor is a socially progressive, pro-business Democrat who has called himself an “extreme moderate.” • Mr. Trump addressed CPAC, the annual gathering of conservatives, for over two hours on Saturday. Here is a fact-check of 15 claims from his speech. • Mr. Trump told the CPAC crowd that he planned to issue an executive order that would put universities’ federal aid at risk if they did not protect the viewpoints of students of all political stripes. The issue of free speech on college campuses has for years been a cause célèbre among young conservative activists. • Representative Jerrold Nadler, the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, said on Sunday that he planned to request documents from more than 60 people with ties to Mr. Trump as part of the committee’s investigation of the president. • Senate Democrats are preparing to make combating climate change a central issue of their 2020 campaigns, with daily floor speeches, a special select committee and climate legislation to run on next year. • Democratic leaders are struggling to recruit candidates for the three or four seats necessary to take control of the Senate next year, as many of their best options forsake statewide campaigns for presidential runs. • Democrats had a strong showing in Pennsylvania during the midterm elections. But some there are worried the momentum could screech to a halt if the issues in the 2020 presidential primaries stray too far left for the region’s many centrist voters. • During his last presidential campaign, Senator Bernie Sanders offered a policy-focused message almost entirely devoid of personal details. At a rally in Brooklyn this weekend, he tried something new: He talked about himself. _____________________ Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.Supported by By Michael M. Grynbaum Not long ago, Donna Brazile was the interim chairwoman of the Democratic Party and a strident critic of Fox News, accusing the network of bias and hyperbole. On Monday, Ms. Brazile announced that she had accepted a new job: on-air commentator on Fox News. Cue the record scratch. A deep-blue Democrat who managed Al Gore’s 2000 presidential campaign, Ms. Brazile has confounded expectations by taking a role at President Trump’s favorite cable news channel. “This is an opportunity to reach across the political aisle,” she told viewers during her debut appearance on Monday. Her interviewer, the host Dana Perino, called it “a bold move for you and for Fox.” It was also another step in Ms. Brazile’s gradual drift away from the Democratic establishment. Ms. Brazile became interim chairwoman of the party in July 2016. Days before Mr. Trump’s election in November, emails obtained by WikiLeaks revealed that Ms. Brazile, who worked for CNN at the time, had leaked debate questions in advance to her allies on Hillary Clinton’s campaign staff. CNN promptly fired her. Within a year, she antagonized Democrats with a provocative memoir that accused the party of taking steps to favor Mrs. Clinton over Senator Bernie Sanders during the 2016 primary campaign. Now, Ms. Brazile will appear on the network that her successor, Tom Perez, the Democratic Party chairman since February 2017, recently barred from sponsoring a party debate because of what he deemed an “inappropriate relationship” with Mr. Trump. In a statement issued on Monday, Ms. Brazile tried to anticipate any objections. “I know I’m going to get criticized from my friends in the progressive movement for being on Fox News,” she wrote. “My response is that, if we’ve learned anything from the 2016 election, it is that we can’t have a country where we don’t talk to those who disagree with our political views. “There’s an audience on Fox News that doesn’t hear enough from Democrats,” Ms. Brazile continued. “We have to engage that audience and show Americans of every stripe what we stand for rather than retreat into our ‘safe spaces’ where we simply agree with each other.” On the air with Ms. Perino on Monday afternoon, Ms. Brazile identified herself as “a progressive and a liberal.” She noted that she had occasionally appeared on Fox News in the past, including as a guest host of the opinionated talk show “The Five.” Fox News said Ms. Brazile would not be involved in debates or candidate town halls hosted by the network during the 2020 campaign. Ms. Brazile arrives at a tumultuous time for the network, which has been grappling with an uproar over offensive comments by two of its star commentators, Jeanine Pirro and Tucker Carlson. Fox News suspended Ms. Pirro after she questioned a Muslim lawmaker’s loyalty to the United States, a move that prompted Mr. Trump to reproach the network in a series of Twitter posts on Sunday. The president also criticized two of Fox News’s weekend anchors, Arthel Neville and Leland Vittert, along with its chief news anchor, Shepard Smith. Fox News has not commented on Mr. Trump’s tweets.

Supported by By Michael M. Grynbaum Not long ago, Donna Brazile was the interim chairwoman of the Democratic Party and a strident critic of Fox News, accusing the network of bias and hyperbole. On Monday, Ms. Brazile announced that she had accepted a new job: on-air commentator on Fox News. Cue the record scratch. A deep-blue Democrat who managed Al Gore’s 2000 presidential campaign, Ms. Brazile has confounded expectations by taking a role at President Trump’s favorite cable news channel. “This is an opportunity to reach across the political aisle,” she told viewers during her debut appearance on Monday. Her interviewer, the host Dana Perino, called it “a bold move for you and for Fox.” It was also another step in Ms. Brazile’s gradual drift away from the Democratic establishment. Ms. Brazile became interim chairwoman of the party in July 2016. Days before Mr. Trump’s election in November, emails obtained by WikiLeaks revealed that Ms. Brazile, who worked for CNN at the time, had leaked debate questions in advance to her allies on Hillary Clinton’s campaign staff. CNN promptly fired her. Within a year, she antagonized Democrats with a provocative memoir that accused the party of taking steps to favor Mrs. Clinton over Senator Bernie Sanders during the 2016 primary campaign. Now, Ms. Brazile will appear on the network that her successor, Tom Perez, the Democratic Party chairman since February 2017, recently barred from sponsoring a party debate because of what he deemed an “inappropriate relationship” with Mr. Trump. In a statement issued on Monday, Ms. Brazile tried to anticipate any objections. “I know I’m going to get criticized from my friends in the progressive movement for being on Fox News,” she wrote. “My response is that, if we’ve learned anything from the 2016 election, it is that we can’t have a country where we don’t talk to those who disagree with our political views. “There’s an audience on Fox News that doesn’t hear enough from Democrats,” Ms. Brazile continued. “We have to engage that audience and show Americans of every stripe what we stand for rather than retreat into our ‘safe spaces’ where we simply agree with each other.” On the air with Ms. Perino on Monday afternoon, Ms. Brazile identified herself as “a progressive and a liberal.” She noted that she had occasionally appeared on Fox News in the past, including as a guest host of the opinionated talk show “The Five.” Fox News said Ms. Brazile would not be involved in debates or candidate town halls hosted by the network during the 2020 campaign. Ms. Brazile arrives at a tumultuous time for the network, which has been grappling with an uproar over offensive comments by two of its star commentators, Jeanine Pirro and Tucker Carlson. Fox News suspended Ms. Pirro after she questioned a Muslim lawmaker’s loyalty to the United States, a move that prompted Mr. Trump to reproach the network in a series of Twitter posts on Sunday. The president also criticized two of Fox News’s weekend anchors, Arthel Neville and Leland Vittert, along with its chief news anchor, Shepard Smith. Fox News has not commented on Mr. Trump’s tweets.Supported by By William K. Rashbaum [What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.] Paul J. Manafort, President Trump’s former campaign chairman, has been charged in New York with mortgage fraud and more than a dozen other state felonies, the Manhattan district attorney, Cyrus R. Vance, Jr., said Wednesday, an effort to ensure he will still face prison time if Mr. Trump pardons him for his federal crimes. News of the indictment came shortly after Mr. Manafort was sentenced to his second federal prison term in two weeks; he now faces a combined sentence of more than seven years for tax and bank fraud and conspiracy in two related cases brought by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III. The president has broad power to issue pardons for federal crimes, but has no such authority in state cases. While Mr. Trump has not said he intends to pardon his former campaign chairman, he has often spoken of his power to pardon and has defended Mr. Manafort on a number of occasions, calling him a “brave man.” Later on Wednesday, the president said, “I feel very badly for Paul Manafort,” and that he had “not thought about” a pardon for him. The new state charges against Mr. Manafort are contained in a 16-count indictment that alleges a yearlong scheme in which he falsified business records to obtain millions of dollars in loans, Mr. Vance said in a news release after the federal sentencing. “No one is beyond the law in New York,” he said, adding that the investigation by the prosecutors in his office had “yielded serious criminal charges for which the defendant has not been held accountable.” The indictment grew out of an investigation that began in 2017, when the Manhattan prosecutors began examining loans Mr. Manafort received from two banks. Last week, a grand jury hearing evidence in the case voted to charge Mr. Manafort with residential mortgage fraud, conspiracy, falsifying business records and other charges. Jason Maloni, a spokesman for Mr. Manafort, declined to comment on the new charges. Earlier this month, Mr. Manafort, 69, was sentenced in Virginia to nearly four years in prison on one of his two federal cases, far less time than prosecutors had requested; on Wednesday, he was sentenced in Washington, D.C., to serve an additional three and a half years. He could face up to 25 years in New York state prison if convicted of the most serious charges in the new indictment, which is expected to be announced later on Wednesday. The loans were also the subject of Mr. Mueller’s investigation and were the basis for some of the counts in the federal indictment that led to Mr. Manafort’s conviction last year in Virginia. But the Manhattan prosecutors deferred their inquiry in order not to interfere with Mr. Mueller’s larger investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 presidential election. In recent months, prosecutors in the district attorney’s Economic Crimes Bureau resumed their inquiry and began presenting evidence to the grand jury, several people with knowledge of the matter have said. The district attorney’s office determined some time ago that it would seek charges whether or not the president pardoned Mr. Manafort. Six Trump advisers or officials have been charged by the special counsel. Mr. Manafort’s lawyers likely will challenge the new indictment on double jeopardy grounds. New York state law includes stronger protections than those provided by the United States Constitution, but prosecutors in Mr. Vance’s office have expressed confidence that they would prevail, people with knowledge of the matter said. State Supreme Court Justice Maxwell Wiley unsealed the charges in the early afternoon, but it will likely be weeks before Mr. Manafort is brought to New York to be arraigned. The 11-page indictment contains few details about the conduct underlying the accusations, but it says they occurred between December 2015 and January 2017. Several people with knowledge of the matter said the mortgage fraud charges stemmed from loans Mr. Manafort obtained or tried to obtain from Citizens Bank, based in Rhode Island, and Federal Savings Bank in Chicago. The loans were for properties on Howard Street, in Lower Manhattan; on Union Street in Brooklyn Heights; and in Bridgehampton on Long Island, the people said. A left-leaning district attorney in a blue state, Mr. Vance is almost sure to face the accusation that his prosecution of a member of Mr. Trump’s inner circle is politically motivated. Perhaps even more so because the indictment marks the third time in little more than a week that a New York Democrat has taken action against the president, his company or his associates. On Monday, New York’s attorney general, Letitia James, subpoenaed bank records relating to the financing of several Trump projects. And last week, state regulators in the administration of Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo began an examination of insurance policies and claims involving the president’s family business. And these inquiries are playing out against the backdrop of a Democratic Congress pumped up to investigate Mr. Trump, his administration and his business as the presidential campaign season gets underway. “Doesn’t matter if it’s Cy Vance or Cy Young,” said Kevin Madden, a Republican consultant who has worked on several presidential campaigns, most recently in 2012 for Mr. Romney. “Any and every action even perceived to be a threat against him or his presidency will be framed as political retribution and an effort to undermine his 2016 victory.” People close to the president have said privately that they believe the case will play poorly for Mr. Vance, and that the public will see him as piling on the already beaten-down Mr. Manafort. For Mr. Vance, though, the case against Mr. Manafort will play out before a very different audience, and could provide the prosecutor with something of an opportunity to show his willingness to challenge Mr. Trump. In 2017, he came under heavy criticism for failing to bring charges against Mr. Trump’s eldest children, Ivanka and Donald Jr., after an investigation into allegations they had lied to buyers of units at the Trump SoHo, a 46-story luxury condominium-hotel in Lower Manhattan. In the Virginia case, Mr. Manafort, who worked for Mr. Trump’s campaign during a critical five months when he became the Republican Party’s presidential nominee in 2016, was convicted in August on eight counts of various financial crimes. At the trial, Mr. Mueller’s prosecutors presented evidence showing that Mr. Manafort used foreign accounts to hide millions of dollars he earned from his political consulting work in Ukraine and evade taxes, and lied to banks to obtain millions of dollars in loans. About a month later, he pleaded guilty in the related case in federal court in Washington, D.C., and agreed to cooperate with Mr. Mueller’s office. But the deal did not last long, blowing up after a federal judge ruled he had repeatedly lied to the government about his contact with a Russian associate during the campaign and after the election. Prosecutors claim that the associate, Konstantin V. Kilimnik, has ties to Russian intelligence, and have been investigating whether he was involved in a covert attempt to influence the election results. An earlier version of this article misspelled the first name of the New York State attorney general. She is Letitia James, not Leticia James. Follow William K. Rashbaum on Twitter at @WRashbaum. Maggie Haberman contributed reporting.  

Supported by By William K. Rashbaum [What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.] Paul J. Manafort, President Trump’s former campaign chairman, has been charged in New York with mortgage fraud and more than a dozen other state felonies, the Manhattan district attorney, Cyrus R. Vance, Jr., said Wednesday, an effort to ensure he will still face prison time if Mr. Trump pardons him for his federal crimes. News of the indictment came shortly after Mr. Manafort was sentenced to his second federal prison term in two weeks; he now faces a combined sentence of more than seven years for tax and bank fraud and conspiracy in two related cases brought by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III. The president has broad power to issue pardons for federal crimes, but has no such authority in state cases. While Mr. Trump has not said he intends to pardon his former campaign chairman, he has often spoken of his power to pardon and has defended Mr. Manafort on a number of occasions, calling him a “brave man.” Later on Wednesday, the president said, “I feel very badly for Paul Manafort,” and that he had “not thought about” a pardon for him. The new state charges against Mr. Manafort are contained in a 16-count indictment that alleges a yearlong scheme in which he falsified business records to obtain millions of dollars in loans, Mr. Vance said in a news release after the federal sentencing. “No one is beyond the law in New York,” he said, adding that the investigation by the prosecutors in his office had “yielded serious criminal charges for which the defendant has not been held accountable.” The indictment grew out of an investigation that began in 2017, when the Manhattan prosecutors began examining loans Mr. Manafort received from two banks. Last week, a grand jury hearing evidence in the case voted to charge Mr. Manafort with residential mortgage fraud, conspiracy, falsifying business records and other charges. Jason Maloni, a spokesman for Mr. Manafort, declined to comment on the new charges. Earlier this month, Mr. Manafort, 69, was sentenced in Virginia to nearly four years in prison on one of his two federal cases, far less time than prosecutors had requested; on Wednesday, he was sentenced in Washington, D.C., to serve an additional three and a half years. He could face up to 25 years in New York state prison if convicted of the most serious charges in the new indictment, which is expected to be announced later on Wednesday. The loans were also the subject of Mr. Mueller’s investigation and were the basis for some of the counts in the federal indictment that led to Mr. Manafort’s conviction last year in Virginia. But the Manhattan prosecutors deferred their inquiry in order not to interfere with Mr. Mueller’s larger investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 presidential election. In recent months, prosecutors in the district attorney’s Economic Crimes Bureau resumed their inquiry and began presenting evidence to the grand jury, several people with knowledge of the matter have said. The district attorney’s office determined some time ago that it would seek charges whether or not the president pardoned Mr. Manafort. Six Trump advisers or officials have been charged by the special counsel. Mr. Manafort’s lawyers likely will challenge the new indictment on double jeopardy grounds. New York state law includes stronger protections than those provided by the United States Constitution, but prosecutors in Mr. Vance’s office have expressed confidence that they would prevail, people with knowledge of the matter said. State Supreme Court Justice Maxwell Wiley unsealed the charges in the early afternoon, but it will likely be weeks before Mr. Manafort is brought to New York to be arraigned. The 11-page indictment contains few details about the conduct underlying the accusations, but it says they occurred between December 2015 and January 2017. Several people with knowledge of the matter said the mortgage fraud charges stemmed from loans Mr. Manafort obtained or tried to obtain from Citizens Bank, based in Rhode Island, and Federal Savings Bank in Chicago. The loans were for properties on Howard Street, in Lower Manhattan; on Union Street in Brooklyn Heights; and in Bridgehampton on Long Island, the people said. A left-leaning district attorney in a blue state, Mr. Vance is almost sure to face the accusation that his prosecution of a member of Mr. Trump’s inner circle is politically motivated. Perhaps even more so because the indictment marks the third time in little more than a week that a New York Democrat has taken action against the president, his company or his associates. On Monday, New York’s attorney general, Letitia James, subpoenaed bank records relating to the financing of several Trump projects. And last week, state regulators in the administration of Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo began an examination of insurance policies and claims involving the president’s family business. And these inquiries are playing out against the backdrop of a Democratic Congress pumped up to investigate Mr. Trump, his administration and his business as the presidential campaign season gets underway. “Doesn’t matter if it’s Cy Vance or Cy Young,” said Kevin Madden, a Republican consultant who has worked on several presidential campaigns, most recently in 2012 for Mr. Romney. “Any and every action even perceived to be a threat against him or his presidency will be framed as political retribution and an effort to undermine his 2016 victory.” People close to the president have said privately that they believe the case will play poorly for Mr. Vance, and that the public will see him as piling on the already beaten-down Mr. Manafort. For Mr. Vance, though, the case against Mr. Manafort will play out before a very different audience, and could provide the prosecutor with something of an opportunity to show his willingness to challenge Mr. Trump. In 2017, he came under heavy criticism for failing to bring charges against Mr. Trump’s eldest children, Ivanka and Donald Jr., after an investigation into allegations they had lied to buyers of units at the Trump SoHo, a 46-story luxury condominium-hotel in Lower Manhattan. In the Virginia case, Mr. Manafort, who worked for Mr. Trump’s campaign during a critical five months when he became the Republican Party’s presidential nominee in 2016, was convicted in August on eight counts of various financial crimes. At the trial, Mr. Mueller’s prosecutors presented evidence showing that Mr. Manafort used foreign accounts to hide millions of dollars he earned from his political consulting work in Ukraine and evade taxes, and lied to banks to obtain millions of dollars in loans. About a month later, he pleaded guilty in the related case in federal court in Washington, D.C., and agreed to cooperate with Mr. Mueller’s office. But the deal did not last long, blowing up after a federal judge ruled he had repeatedly lied to the government about his contact with a Russian associate during the campaign and after the election. Prosecutors claim that the associate, Konstantin V. Kilimnik, has ties to Russian intelligence, and have been investigating whether he was involved in a covert attempt to influence the election results. An earlier version of this article misspelled the first name of the New York State attorney general. She is Letitia James, not Leticia James. Follow William K. Rashbaum on Twitter at @WRashbaum. Maggie Haberman contributed reporting.  Supported by By Maggie Astor Beto O’Rourke, who has turned his consideration of a presidential campaign into an online version of reality television, inviting Americans to follow along through journal dispatches as he travels the country in search of personal clarity, said Wednesday that he had made his decision. What is it? He’ll tell you soon. When is soon? Unclear. “Amy and I have made a decision about how we can best serve our country,” Mr. O’Rourke, the former congressman from Texas, said in the briefest of statements, referring to his wife, Amy Sanders. “We are excited to share it with everyone soon.” [Stay up-to-date on the growing Democratic field with our candidate tracker.] Mr. O’Rourke, who served in the House from 2013 through the beginning of 2019, made a national name for himself last year when he gave Senator Ted Cruz a surprisingly strong challenge in a reliably conservative state. Mr. Cruz was re-elected by less than three percentage points. Six years earlier, he had won by 16 points. In his Senate campaign, Mr. O’Rourke fired up Texas Democrats with a broadly liberal message and a charismatic stage presence, while also pulling in donations from across the country. Some political observers have been urging him to try to replicate that campaign in 2020 against Texas’ other Republican senator, John Cornyn, rather than enter one of the most crowded Democratic primary fields in history. The announcement-of-a-coming-announcement was first reported by The Dallas Morning News Wednesday afternoon. The paper, citing anonymous sources “close to the former El Paso congressman,” also reported that Mr. O’Rourke had decided not to challenge Mr. Cornyn, who is up for re-election next year. Such a decision would suggest that Mr. O’Rourke was leaning toward a run for the presidency. Mr. O’Rourke’s spokesman, Chris Evans, would not comment on whether the former congressman had decided to forgo a 2020 Senate run. But since almost the moment he conceded in November, the larger speculation has been whether he will try to translate his appeal in Texas, where he presented himself as a unifier, to a national primary in which Democratic voters have shown an appetite for more strongly progressive policies. He placed well in some early polls, landing as high as third in mid-January behind former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. (who has not decided whether he will run) and Senator Bernie Sanders (who entered the race last week). In more recent polls, Senators Kamala Harris and Elizabeth Warren have surpassed him. Matt Flegenheimer contributed reporting.   

Supported by By Maggie Astor Beto O’Rourke, who has turned his consideration of a presidential campaign into an online version of reality television, inviting Americans to follow along through journal dispatches as he travels the country in search of personal clarity, said Wednesday that he had made his decision. What is it? He’ll tell you soon. When is soon? Unclear. “Amy and I have made a decision about how we can best serve our country,” Mr. O’Rourke, the former congressman from Texas, said in the briefest of statements, referring to his wife, Amy Sanders. “We are excited to share it with everyone soon.” [Stay up-to-date on the growing Democratic field with our candidate tracker.] Mr. O’Rourke, who served in the House from 2013 through the beginning of 2019, made a national name for himself last year when he gave Senator Ted Cruz a surprisingly strong challenge in a reliably conservative state. Mr. Cruz was re-elected by less than three percentage points. Six years earlier, he had won by 16 points. In his Senate campaign, Mr. O’Rourke fired up Texas Democrats with a broadly liberal message and a charismatic stage presence, while also pulling in donations from across the country. Some political observers have been urging him to try to replicate that campaign in 2020 against Texas’ other Republican senator, John Cornyn, rather than enter one of the most crowded Democratic primary fields in history. The announcement-of-a-coming-announcement was first reported by The Dallas Morning News Wednesday afternoon. The paper, citing anonymous sources “close to the former El Paso congressman,” also reported that Mr. O’Rourke had decided not to challenge Mr. Cornyn, who is up for re-election next year. Such a decision would suggest that Mr. O’Rourke was leaning toward a run for the presidency. Mr. O’Rourke’s spokesman, Chris Evans, would not comment on whether the former congressman had decided to forgo a 2020 Senate run. But since almost the moment he conceded in November, the larger speculation has been whether he will try to translate his appeal in Texas, where he presented himself as a unifier, to a national primary in which Democratic voters have shown an appetite for more strongly progressive policies. He placed well in some early polls, landing as high as third in mid-January behind former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. (who has not decided whether he will run) and Senator Bernie Sanders (who entered the race last week). In more recent polls, Senators Kamala Harris and Elizabeth Warren have surpassed him. Matt Flegenheimer contributed reporting.   Follow Us: Get the Upshot in your Inbox 

      By JOSH KATZ, 
    
KEVIN QUEALY and 
    
MARGOT SANGER-KATZ

APRIL 10, 2019
 
 How much would a “Medicare for all” plan, like the kind being introduced by Senator Bernie Sanders on Wednesday, change health spending in the United States? Some advocates have said costs would actually be lower because of gains in efficiency and scale, while critics have predicted huge increases. We asked a handful of economists and think tanks with a range of perspectives to estimate total American health care expenditures in 2019 under such a plan. The chart at the top of this page shows the estimates, both in composition and in total cost. In all of these estimates, patients and private insurers would spend far less, and the federal government would pay far more. But the overall changes are also important, and they’re larger than they may look. Even the difference between the most expensive estimate and the second-most expensive estimate was larger than the budget of most federal agencies. The big differences in the estimates of experts reflect the challenge of forecasting a change of this magnitude; it would be the largest domestic policy change in a generation. The proposals themselves are vague on crucial points. More broadly, any Medicare for all system would be influenced by the decisions and actions of parties concerned — patients, health care providers and political actors — in complex, hard-to-predict ways. But seeing the range of responses, and the things that all the experts agree on, can give us some ideas about what Medicare for all could mean for the country’s budget and economy. These estimates come from: Gerald Friedman, a professor of economics at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, whose estimates were frequently cited by the Bernie Sanders presidential campaign in 2016. Charles Blahous, a senior research strategist at the Mercatus Center at George Mason University, and a former trustee of Medicare and Social Security. Analysts at the RAND Corporation, a global policy research group that has estimated the effects of several single-payer health care proposals. Kenneth E. Thorpe, the chairman of the health policy department at Emory University, who helped Vermont estimate the costs of a single-payer proposal there in 2006. Analysts at the Urban Institute, a Washington policy research group that frequently estimates the effects of health policy changes. Right now, individuals and employers pay insurance premiums; people pay cash co-payments for drugs; and state governments pay a share of Medicaid costs. In a Sanders-style system or one recently introduced by Representative Pramila Jayapal and the Congressional Progressive Caucus, nearly all of that would be replaced by federal spending. That’s why some experts describe such a system as single-payer. (Other Democrats who are supporting coverage expansion through Medicare have offered more modest proposals that would preserve some out-of-pocket spending and a role for private insurance.) The economists made their calculations using different assumptions and methods, and you can read more about those methods at the bottom of this article. These two estimates, for example, from the Mercatus Center and the Urban Institute, differ by about $730 billion per year, roughly 3 percent of G.D.P. The two groups don’t often agree on public policy — Mercatus tends to be more right-leaning and Urban more left-leaning. The biggest difference between the Mercatus estimate and the Urban one is related to how much the new system would pay doctors, hospitals and other medical providers for health services. Mr. Friedman’s estimate, the least expensive of the group, assumed that the government could achieve the largest cost savings on both prescription drugs and administrative spending. In our current system, doctors, hospitals and other health care providers are paid by a number of insurers, and those insurers all pay them slightly different prices. In general, private insurance pays medical providers more than Medicare does. Under a Medicare for all system, Medicare would pick up all the bills. Paying the same prices that Medicare pays now would mean an effective pay cut for medical providers who currently see a lot of patients with private insurance. For a Medicare for all system to save money, it needs to reduce the health care industry’s income somewhat. But if rates are too low, hospitals already facing financial difficulties could be put out of business. Neither Mr. Sanders’s legislation nor the Jayapal House bill specify what the Medicare for all system would pay, but they say that Medicare would establish budgets and payment rates. So our estimators offered their best guess of what they thought such a plan might do. Mr. Thorpe said he picked a number higher than current Medicare prices for hospitals, because he thought anything lower would be unsustainable. Mr. Blahous said he constructed his starting estimate at precisely Medicare rates, though he thought the real number would most likely be higher. He also reran his calculations with a more generous assumption: At 111 percent of Medicare, around the average amount all health insurers pay medical providers now, the total shot up by hundreds of billions of dollars, about an additional 1.5 percent of G.D.P. Patients in the United States pay the highest prices in the world for prescription drugs. That’s partly a result of a fractured system in which different payers negotiate separately for drug benefits. But it also reflects national preferences: An effective negotiator needs to be able to say no, and American patients tend to want access to the widest array of cutting-edge drugs, even if it means paying more. A Medicare for all system would have more leverage with the drug industry because it could bargain for the whole country’s drug supply at once. But politics would still be a constraint. A system willing to pay for fewer drugs could probably get bigger discounts than one that wanted to preserve the current set of choices. That would mean, though, that some patients would be denied the medications they want. All of our economists thought a Medicare for all system could negotiate lower prices than the current ones. But they differed in their assessments of how cutthroat a negotiator Medicare would be. Mr. Friedman thought Medicare for all could reduce drug spending by nearly a third. The Urban team said the savings would be at least 20 percent. The other researchers imagined more modest reductions. Medicare for all would give insurance to around 28 million Americans who don’t have it now. And evidence shows that people use more health services when they’re insured. That change alone would increase the bill for the program. Other changes to Medicare for all would also tend to increase health care spending. Some proposals would eliminate nearly all co-payments and deductibles. Evidence shows that people tend to go to the doctor more when there’s no such cost sharing. The proposed plans would also add medical benefits not typically covered by health insurance, such as dental care, hearing aids and optometry services, which would increase their use. The economists differ somewhat in how much they think people would increase their use of medical services. (Because of the way the Urban Institute team’s estimate was calculated, it couldn’t easily provide a number for this question.) The complexity of the American system means that administrative costs can often be high. Insurance companies spend on negotiations, claims review, marketing and sometimes shareholder returns. One key possible advantage of a Medicare for all system would be to strip away some of those overhead costs. But estimating possible savings in management and administration is not easy. Medicare currently has a much lower administrative cost share than other forms of insurance, but it also covers sicker people, distorting such comparisons. Certain administrative functions, like fraud detection, can have a substantial return on investment. The economists all said administrative costs would be lower under Medicare for all, but they differed on how much. Those differences amount to percentage points on top of the differing estimates of medical spending. On this question, there was rough agreement among our estimators that administrative costs would be no higher than 6 percent of medical costs, a number similar to the administrative costs that large employers spend on their health plans. Mr. Blahous said a 6 percent estimate would probably apply to populations currently covered under private insurance, but did not calculate an overall rate. All of these estimates looked at the potential health care bill under a Sanders-style Medicare for all plan. In some estimates, the country would not pay more for health care, but there would still be a drastic shift in who is doing the paying. Individuals and their employers now pay nearly half of the total cost of medical care, but that percentage would fall close to zero, and the percentage paid by the federal government would rise to compensate. Even under Mr. Blahous’s lower estimate, which assumes a reduction in overall health care spending, federal spending on health care would still increase by 10 percent of G.D.P., or  more than triple what the government spends on the military. How that transfer takes place is one of the least well explained parts of the reform proposals. Taxation is the most obvious way to collect that extra revenue, but so far none of the current Medicare for all proposals have included a detailed tax plan. Even if total medical spending stayed flat over all, some taxpayers could come out ahead and pay less; others could find themselves paying more. Raising revenue would require broad tax increases that are likely to be partly borne by the middle class, potentially impeding passage. Advocates, including Mr. Sanders, tend to favor funding the program with payroll taxes. For some people, any increase in federal taxes might be more than offset by reductions in their spending on premiums, co-payments, deductibles and state taxes. There is evidence to suggest that premium savings by employers would also be returned to workers in the form of higher salaries. But, depending on the details, other groups could end up paying more in tax increases than they save in those reductions. After Mr. Sanders’s presidential campaign released a tax proposal in 2016, the Urban Institute tried to calculate the effects on different groups. But it found that the proposed taxes would pay for only about half of the increased federal bill. That means that a real financing proposal would probably need to raise a lot more in taxes. How those are spread across the population would change who would be better or worse off under Medicare for all. Our economists differed somewhat in their estimation methods. They also examined a couple of different Medicare for all proposals, though all the plans had the same major features. Gerald Friedman calculated the cost of Medicare for all by making adjustments to current health care spending using assumptions he derived from the research literature. His measurements didn’t capture the behavior of individual Americans, but estimated broader changes as groups of people gained access to different insurance, and as medical providers earned a different mix of payments. A 2018 paper with his analysis of several different variations on Medicare for all is available here. Kenneth E. Thorpe calculated the cost of Medicare for all by making adjustments to current health care spending using assumptions he derived from the research literature. His measurements didn’t capture the behavior of individual Americans, but estimated broader changes as groups of people gained access to different insurance, and as medical providers earned a different mix of payments. A 2016 paper with more of his findings on Mr. Sanders’s presidential campaign proposal is available here. The Urban Institute built its estimates using a microsimulation model, which estimates how individuals with different incomes and health care needs would respond to changes in health insurance. The model does not consider the effects of policy changes on military and veterans’ health care or the Indian Health Service, so its totals assumed those programs would not change. It also measures limits on the availability of doctors and hospitals using evidence from the Medicaid program. The team at Urban that prepared the calculations includes John Holahan, Lisa Clemans-Cope, Matthew Buettgens, Melissa Favreault, Linda J. Blumberg and Siyabonga Ndwandwe. Its detailed report on Mr. Sanders’s presidential campaign proposal from 2016 is available here. Charles Blahous calculated the cost of Medicare for all by making adjustments to current health care spending using assumptions he derived from the research literature. His measurements didn’t capture the behavior of individual Americans, but estimated broader changes as groups of people gained access to different insurance, and as medical providers earned a different mix of payments. His calculations were made based on Mr. Sanders’s 2017 Medicare for All Act, which indicated that states would continue to pay a share of long-term care costs. A 2018 paper with more of his findings is available here, and includes both sets of estimates for Medicare provider payments. The RAND Corporation built its estimates by making adjustments to previous single-payer analyses. The original estimates used a microsimulation model, which estimates how individuals with different incomes and health care needs would respond to changes in health insurance. The RAND model, which it uses to estimate the effects of various health policy changes, is called RAND COMPARE. Calculations were made assuming a Medicare for all plan that offers coverage with no cost sharing and long-term care benefits. The RAND team that prepared the estimate includes Christine Eibner and Jodi Liu. A copy of the report is available here; Ms. Liu’s 2016 study of how different approaches to single-payer might affect its costs is here.

Follow Us: Get the Upshot in your Inbox 

      By JOSH KATZ, 
    
KEVIN QUEALY and 
    
MARGOT SANGER-KATZ

APRIL 10, 2019
 
 How much would a “Medicare for all” plan, like the kind being introduced by Senator Bernie Sanders on Wednesday, change health spending in the United States? Some advocates have said costs would actually be lower because of gains in efficiency and scale, while critics have predicted huge increases. We asked a handful of economists and think tanks with a range of perspectives to estimate total American health care expenditures in 2019 under such a plan. The chart at the top of this page shows the estimates, both in composition and in total cost. In all of these estimates, patients and private insurers would spend far less, and the federal government would pay far more. But the overall changes are also important, and they’re larger than they may look. Even the difference between the most expensive estimate and the second-most expensive estimate was larger than the budget of most federal agencies. The big differences in the estimates of experts reflect the challenge of forecasting a change of this magnitude; it would be the largest domestic policy change in a generation. The proposals themselves are vague on crucial points. More broadly, any Medicare for all system would be influenced by the decisions and actions of parties concerned — patients, health care providers and political actors — in complex, hard-to-predict ways. But seeing the range of responses, and the things that all the experts agree on, can give us some ideas about what Medicare for all could mean for the country’s budget and economy. These estimates come from: Gerald Friedman, a professor of economics at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, whose estimates were frequently cited by the Bernie Sanders presidential campaign in 2016. Charles Blahous, a senior research strategist at the Mercatus Center at George Mason University, and a former trustee of Medicare and Social Security. Analysts at the RAND Corporation, a global policy research group that has estimated the effects of several single-payer health care proposals. Kenneth E. Thorpe, the chairman of the health policy department at Emory University, who helped Vermont estimate the costs of a single-payer proposal there in 2006. Analysts at the Urban Institute, a Washington policy research group that frequently estimates the effects of health policy changes. Right now, individuals and employers pay insurance premiums; people pay cash co-payments for drugs; and state governments pay a share of Medicaid costs. In a Sanders-style system or one recently introduced by Representative Pramila Jayapal and the Congressional Progressive Caucus, nearly all of that would be replaced by federal spending. That’s why some experts describe such a system as single-payer. (Other Democrats who are supporting coverage expansion through Medicare have offered more modest proposals that would preserve some out-of-pocket spending and a role for private insurance.) The economists made their calculations using different assumptions and methods, and you can read more about those methods at the bottom of this article. These two estimates, for example, from the Mercatus Center and the Urban Institute, differ by about $730 billion per year, roughly 3 percent of G.D.P. The two groups don’t often agree on public policy — Mercatus tends to be more right-leaning and Urban more left-leaning. The biggest difference between the Mercatus estimate and the Urban one is related to how much the new system would pay doctors, hospitals and other medical providers for health services. Mr. Friedman’s estimate, the least expensive of the group, assumed that the government could achieve the largest cost savings on both prescription drugs and administrative spending. In our current system, doctors, hospitals and other health care providers are paid by a number of insurers, and those insurers all pay them slightly different prices. In general, private insurance pays medical providers more than Medicare does. Under a Medicare for all system, Medicare would pick up all the bills. Paying the same prices that Medicare pays now would mean an effective pay cut for medical providers who currently see a lot of patients with private insurance. For a Medicare for all system to save money, it needs to reduce the health care industry’s income somewhat. But if rates are too low, hospitals already facing financial difficulties could be put out of business. Neither Mr. Sanders’s legislation nor the Jayapal House bill specify what the Medicare for all system would pay, but they say that Medicare would establish budgets and payment rates. So our estimators offered their best guess of what they thought such a plan might do. Mr. Thorpe said he picked a number higher than current Medicare prices for hospitals, because he thought anything lower would be unsustainable. Mr. Blahous said he constructed his starting estimate at precisely Medicare rates, though he thought the real number would most likely be higher. He also reran his calculations with a more generous assumption: At 111 percent of Medicare, around the average amount all health insurers pay medical providers now, the total shot up by hundreds of billions of dollars, about an additional 1.5 percent of G.D.P. Patients in the United States pay the highest prices in the world for prescription drugs. That’s partly a result of a fractured system in which different payers negotiate separately for drug benefits. But it also reflects national preferences: An effective negotiator needs to be able to say no, and American patients tend to want access to the widest array of cutting-edge drugs, even if it means paying more. A Medicare for all system would have more leverage with the drug industry because it could bargain for the whole country’s drug supply at once. But politics would still be a constraint. A system willing to pay for fewer drugs could probably get bigger discounts than one that wanted to preserve the current set of choices. That would mean, though, that some patients would be denied the medications they want. All of our economists thought a Medicare for all system could negotiate lower prices than the current ones. But they differed in their assessments of how cutthroat a negotiator Medicare would be. Mr. Friedman thought Medicare for all could reduce drug spending by nearly a third. The Urban team said the savings would be at least 20 percent. The other researchers imagined more modest reductions. Medicare for all would give insurance to around 28 million Americans who don’t have it now. And evidence shows that people use more health services when they’re insured. That change alone would increase the bill for the program. Other changes to Medicare for all would also tend to increase health care spending. Some proposals would eliminate nearly all co-payments and deductibles. Evidence shows that people tend to go to the doctor more when there’s no such cost sharing. The proposed plans would also add medical benefits not typically covered by health insurance, such as dental care, hearing aids and optometry services, which would increase their use. The economists differ somewhat in how much they think people would increase their use of medical services. (Because of the way the Urban Institute team’s estimate was calculated, it couldn’t easily provide a number for this question.) The complexity of the American system means that administrative costs can often be high. Insurance companies spend on negotiations, claims review, marketing and sometimes shareholder returns. One key possible advantage of a Medicare for all system would be to strip away some of those overhead costs. But estimating possible savings in management and administration is not easy. Medicare currently has a much lower administrative cost share than other forms of insurance, but it also covers sicker people, distorting such comparisons. Certain administrative functions, like fraud detection, can have a substantial return on investment. The economists all said administrative costs would be lower under Medicare for all, but they differed on how much. Those differences amount to percentage points on top of the differing estimates of medical spending. On this question, there was rough agreement among our estimators that administrative costs would be no higher than 6 percent of medical costs, a number similar to the administrative costs that large employers spend on their health plans. Mr. Blahous said a 6 percent estimate would probably apply to populations currently covered under private insurance, but did not calculate an overall rate. All of these estimates looked at the potential health care bill under a Sanders-style Medicare for all plan. In some estimates, the country would not pay more for health care, but there would still be a drastic shift in who is doing the paying. Individuals and their employers now pay nearly half of the total cost of medical care, but that percentage would fall close to zero, and the percentage paid by the federal government would rise to compensate. Even under Mr. Blahous’s lower estimate, which assumes a reduction in overall health care spending, federal spending on health care would still increase by 10 percent of G.D.P., or  more than triple what the government spends on the military. How that transfer takes place is one of the least well explained parts of the reform proposals. Taxation is the most obvious way to collect that extra revenue, but so far none of the current Medicare for all proposals have included a detailed tax plan. Even if total medical spending stayed flat over all, some taxpayers could come out ahead and pay less; others could find themselves paying more. Raising revenue would require broad tax increases that are likely to be partly borne by the middle class, potentially impeding passage. Advocates, including Mr. Sanders, tend to favor funding the program with payroll taxes. For some people, any increase in federal taxes might be more than offset by reductions in their spending on premiums, co-payments, deductibles and state taxes. There is evidence to suggest that premium savings by employers would also be returned to workers in the form of higher salaries. But, depending on the details, other groups could end up paying more in tax increases than they save in those reductions. After Mr. Sanders’s presidential campaign released a tax proposal in 2016, the Urban Institute tried to calculate the effects on different groups. But it found that the proposed taxes would pay for only about half of the increased federal bill. That means that a real financing proposal would probably need to raise a lot more in taxes. How those are spread across the population would change who would be better or worse off under Medicare for all. Our economists differed somewhat in their estimation methods. They also examined a couple of different Medicare for all proposals, though all the plans had the same major features. Gerald Friedman calculated the cost of Medicare for all by making adjustments to current health care spending using assumptions he derived from the research literature. His measurements didn’t capture the behavior of individual Americans, but estimated broader changes as groups of people gained access to different insurance, and as medical providers earned a different mix of payments. A 2018 paper with his analysis of several different variations on Medicare for all is available here. Kenneth E. Thorpe calculated the cost of Medicare for all by making adjustments to current health care spending using assumptions he derived from the research literature. His measurements didn’t capture the behavior of individual Americans, but estimated broader changes as groups of people gained access to different insurance, and as medical providers earned a different mix of payments. A 2016 paper with more of his findings on Mr. Sanders’s presidential campaign proposal is available here. The Urban Institute built its estimates using a microsimulation model, which estimates how individuals with different incomes and health care needs would respond to changes in health insurance. The model does not consider the effects of policy changes on military and veterans’ health care or the Indian Health Service, so its totals assumed those programs would not change. It also measures limits on the availability of doctors and hospitals using evidence from the Medicaid program. The team at Urban that prepared the calculations includes John Holahan, Lisa Clemans-Cope, Matthew Buettgens, Melissa Favreault, Linda J. Blumberg and Siyabonga Ndwandwe. Its detailed report on Mr. Sanders’s presidential campaign proposal from 2016 is available here. Charles Blahous calculated the cost of Medicare for all by making adjustments to current health care spending using assumptions he derived from the research literature. His measurements didn’t capture the behavior of individual Americans, but estimated broader changes as groups of people gained access to different insurance, and as medical providers earned a different mix of payments. His calculations were made based on Mr. Sanders’s 2017 Medicare for All Act, which indicated that states would continue to pay a share of long-term care costs. A 2018 paper with more of his findings is available here, and includes both sets of estimates for Medicare provider payments. The RAND Corporation built its estimates by making adjustments to previous single-payer analyses. The original estimates used a microsimulation model, which estimates how individuals with different incomes and health care needs would respond to changes in health insurance. The RAND model, which it uses to estimate the effects of various health policy changes, is called RAND COMPARE. Calculations were made assuming a Medicare for all plan that offers coverage with no cost sharing and long-term care benefits. The RAND team that prepared the estimate includes Christine Eibner and Jodi Liu. A copy of the report is available here; Ms. Liu’s 2016 study of how different approaches to single-payer might affect its costs is here.Supported by  It’s about voting, and it is winning more than it is losing. By David Leonhardt Opinion Columnist This article is part of David Leonhardt’s newsletter. You can sign up here to receive it each weekday. There are plenty of reasons to be angry about voting rights. In Florida, Republican lawmakers are trying to keep people with criminal records from voting, as I explained in a recent newsletter. Elsewhere, legislators have passed laws making it harder to vote, especially for minority groups. And even before these changes, voting in the United States has been needlessly difficult — occurring on workdays and often involving long lines. So, yes, you should be angry about voting rights. But you should also realize that the situation is not hopeless. Joshua Douglas, a law professor at the University of Kentucky, has written a new book that explains how activists around the country are winning fights to make democracy work better. Thanks to their efforts, the state of voting rights is improving in many places, he argues. I think he’s right. [Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.] Nevada, New York and Wyoming have recently made it easier for felons to vote. Florida has too, despite the efforts to undermine the new law. Fifteen states and the District of Columbia have passed automatic voter registration since 2015. In some places, voting by mail has also expanded. In Kentucky, North Carolina, Minnesota and Wisconsin, people with disabilities or people who don’t speak English can more easily cast a ballot. “Everyday Americans are the main drivers of this early success. Call it the Democracy Movement,” Douglas writes in the book, which is called “Vote for US”. “It is the way to fight back against big corporations and moneyed interests that impact the rules of the game. Citizens who care about our democracy can take a stand, organize, and push for meaningful reforms to state and local election processes. We can fix our election system.” His book tells the stories of a Virginia teacher trying to interest her students in civics, of a former Miss Wisconsin fighting against a voter-ID law and more. As Douglas argues, their optimism is essential to progress. “Because so much of the discussion of voting rights is doom and gloom, I wanted to focus on what is positive about reform efforts and what actually has worked,” he recently told HuffPost’s Sam Levine. “Optimism about what’s possible is the way to actually move forward.” Related: Douglas recommends my colleague Jamelle Bouie’s recent column, “Tell Me Again Why Prisoners Can’t Vote.” And Darren Sands of BuzzFeed News summarizes the voting-rights bill Cory Booker has introduced as part of his presidential campaign. The bill, Sands writes, would “end gerrymandering; stop voter suppression efforts, such as purging voters from the rolls; expand vote-by-mail, early voting, and same-day and online voter registration; make Election Day a national holiday; rid the election system of language barriers; and give US citizens returning from incarceration the right to vote.” Mueller day If you want a good preview of the Mueller report, try Asha Rangappa, a former F.B.I. special agent writing in Politico; the law professor Richard Hasen writing in Slate; or Peter Baker, in The Times. Since we don’t yet have the report, I’m going to devote today’s newsletter to a different topic. If you are not a subscriber to this newsletter, you can subscribe here. You can also join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt • Facebook 

Supported by  It’s about voting, and it is winning more than it is losing. By David Leonhardt Opinion Columnist This article is part of David Leonhardt’s newsletter. You can sign up here to receive it each weekday. There are plenty of reasons to be angry about voting rights. In Florida, Republican lawmakers are trying to keep people with criminal records from voting, as I explained in a recent newsletter. Elsewhere, legislators have passed laws making it harder to vote, especially for minority groups. And even before these changes, voting in the United States has been needlessly difficult — occurring on workdays and often involving long lines. So, yes, you should be angry about voting rights. But you should also realize that the situation is not hopeless. Joshua Douglas, a law professor at the University of Kentucky, has written a new book that explains how activists around the country are winning fights to make democracy work better. Thanks to their efforts, the state of voting rights is improving in many places, he argues. I think he’s right. [Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.] Nevada, New York and Wyoming have recently made it easier for felons to vote. Florida has too, despite the efforts to undermine the new law. Fifteen states and the District of Columbia have passed automatic voter registration since 2015. In some places, voting by mail has also expanded. In Kentucky, North Carolina, Minnesota and Wisconsin, people with disabilities or people who don’t speak English can more easily cast a ballot. “Everyday Americans are the main drivers of this early success. Call it the Democracy Movement,” Douglas writes in the book, which is called “Vote for US”. “It is the way to fight back against big corporations and moneyed interests that impact the rules of the game. Citizens who care about our democracy can take a stand, organize, and push for meaningful reforms to state and local election processes. We can fix our election system.” His book tells the stories of a Virginia teacher trying to interest her students in civics, of a former Miss Wisconsin fighting against a voter-ID law and more. As Douglas argues, their optimism is essential to progress. “Because so much of the discussion of voting rights is doom and gloom, I wanted to focus on what is positive about reform efforts and what actually has worked,” he recently told HuffPost’s Sam Levine. “Optimism about what’s possible is the way to actually move forward.” Related: Douglas recommends my colleague Jamelle Bouie’s recent column, “Tell Me Again Why Prisoners Can’t Vote.” And Darren Sands of BuzzFeed News summarizes the voting-rights bill Cory Booker has introduced as part of his presidential campaign. The bill, Sands writes, would “end gerrymandering; stop voter suppression efforts, such as purging voters from the rolls; expand vote-by-mail, early voting, and same-day and online voter registration; make Election Day a national holiday; rid the election system of language barriers; and give US citizens returning from incarceration the right to vote.” Mueller day If you want a good preview of the Mueller report, try Asha Rangappa, a former F.B.I. special agent writing in Politico; the law professor Richard Hasen writing in Slate; or Peter Baker, in The Times. Since we don’t yet have the report, I’m going to devote today’s newsletter to a different topic. If you are not a subscriber to this newsletter, you can subscribe here. You can also join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt • Facebook Opinion Biden has strengths no other candidate does, and Democrats need a diverse field.  CreditCreditRyan Pfluger for The New York Times Supported by By David Leonhardt Opinion Columnist In the summer of 2016, it was becoming clear that Hillary Clinton was a weaker presidential candidate than many Democrats had expected. Some problems were of her own making (the Wall Street speeches), and some were overhyped by the media (emails!). But the bottom line was that she didn’t look like the ideal candidate for the political moment. She was an establishment insider in a populist time. By that summer, however, it was too late for Democrats to do anything about it. The candidates best positioned to beat Clinton, or at least sharpen her, had passed on the race, like Elizabeth Warren and Joe Biden. Bernie Sanders ran a strong outsider campaign. But when a socialist from Vermont wins 43 percent of the primary vote, it tells you something about the front-runner.  [Sign up for David Leonhardt’s daily newsletter — with commentary on the news and reading suggestions from around the web.] The lesson here is that trying to identify the perfect nominee far in advance is a fool’s game. At the start of a presidential campaign, it’s hard to know who will shine and who will struggle. It is also hard to know what the national mood will be the following year — election year. Which brings me to the much-debated potential candidacy of Biden this time around. I have a piece of advice for the former vice president: Run, Joe, run. Run because you have strengths that no other Democratic candidate does, including your depth of experience and connection to the Obama presidency. Run because your populist image fits the Democrats’ most successful political strategy of the past generation. Run because you will never have another chance — and because you are not afraid of losing. I get the case against Biden. My colleague Frank Bruni has made it and made it well, as have Vox’s Matthew Yglesias and others. At 76 years old, Biden does not represent an exciting new era. He is an old white guy who, over the years, has tacked right on criminal justice, bungled the Anita Hill hearings and failed twice at presidential campaigning. If Biden runs now, I’m not sure whether I’ll be rooting for him to win. But I am rooting for him to run because the country needs to maximize the chances that Trump’s presidency ends as soon as possible, certainly by Jan. 20, 2021. A Biden run helps that cause. It does so by broadening the Democrats’ options. It creates a stronger field, from which the strongest nominee can emerge. (The downsides of a big field are often exaggerated: A divisive primary didn’t undermine Barack Obama in 2008. It helped him.) If Biden is as flawed as his critics think, he won’t win the nomination. Above all, a Biden run avoids repeating the mistake of 2016 — the hubris of imperfect foresight. For the same reason, I am glad Warren is running. She combines progressive passion with serious policy chops. I’m rooting for Kamala Harris and Beto O’Rourke, who do seem fresh and exciting, to run. I hope Sherrod Brown and Amy Klobuchar, two populist Midwesterners, run. I hope the uncommonly charismatic Mitch Landrieu does, too. This group, with Biden, is my A-list. And I wouldn’t be shocked to see another candidate do well enough to jump into the A-list. Yet Biden is unique among all of them. For starters, he would bring strengths to the actual job of president that the others would not. He has an intimate sense of the modern presidency. He has spent decades — literally, as he likes to say — doing battle with a radicalized Republican Party. He also has strengths as a candidate that the others do not. Imagine that the Trump administration descends further into chaos, through some combination of investigations and incompetence. It could certainly happen. In that case, Americans may no longer be so enamored of an outsider. They may be looking for a more reassuring figure than, say, a recently defeated senatorial candidate. To put it another way: If Mike Pence is president by year’s end, shouldn’t Democrats want Biden to be an option? Finally, Biden can take on Trump, starting right now, in distinct ways. As a front-runner, Biden will command attention that he can use to offer a running takedown of the Trump presidency. Biden can call out Trump as a fraud — one old white guy to another — which can soften up Trump regardless of who the nominee is. Let me repeat: My argument is not that Biden will be the best candidate. I don’t agree with his reported view that he alone among the Democrats can beat Trump. And he has real weaknesses, like the logorrhea that afflicts many longtime senators. I once attended a White House session during which I wasn’t sure if he would ever stop talking. If he runs, I hope he is smart and humble enough to insist on honest criticism from his advisers. My argument is that nobody — not the candidates, not the pollsters, not us pundits — knows who the best 2020 candidate will be. And Biden is different from the rest. A field with him puts the Democrats in a better position than one without him. The only mistake at this stage would to eliminate, pre-emptively, anybody with a decent chance to win. Democrats already tried that, not so long ago. It turned out to be a giant favor to Donald Trump. Sign up for David Leonhardt’s daily newsletter with commentary on the news and reading suggestions from around the web. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt • Facebook 

Opinion Biden has strengths no other candidate does, and Democrats need a diverse field.  CreditCreditRyan Pfluger for The New York Times Supported by By David Leonhardt Opinion Columnist In the summer of 2016, it was becoming clear that Hillary Clinton was a weaker presidential candidate than many Democrats had expected. Some problems were of her own making (the Wall Street speeches), and some were overhyped by the media (emails!). But the bottom line was that she didn’t look like the ideal candidate for the political moment. She was an establishment insider in a populist time. By that summer, however, it was too late for Democrats to do anything about it. The candidates best positioned to beat Clinton, or at least sharpen her, had passed on the race, like Elizabeth Warren and Joe Biden. Bernie Sanders ran a strong outsider campaign. But when a socialist from Vermont wins 43 percent of the primary vote, it tells you something about the front-runner.  [Sign up for David Leonhardt’s daily newsletter — with commentary on the news and reading suggestions from around the web.] The lesson here is that trying to identify the perfect nominee far in advance is a fool’s game. At the start of a presidential campaign, it’s hard to know who will shine and who will struggle. It is also hard to know what the national mood will be the following year — election year. Which brings me to the much-debated potential candidacy of Biden this time around. I have a piece of advice for the former vice president: Run, Joe, run. Run because you have strengths that no other Democratic candidate does, including your depth of experience and connection to the Obama presidency. Run because your populist image fits the Democrats’ most successful political strategy of the past generation. Run because you will never have another chance — and because you are not afraid of losing. I get the case against Biden. My colleague Frank Bruni has made it and made it well, as have Vox’s Matthew Yglesias and others. At 76 years old, Biden does not represent an exciting new era. He is an old white guy who, over the years, has tacked right on criminal justice, bungled the Anita Hill hearings and failed twice at presidential campaigning. If Biden runs now, I’m not sure whether I’ll be rooting for him to win. But I am rooting for him to run because the country needs to maximize the chances that Trump’s presidency ends as soon as possible, certainly by Jan. 20, 2021. A Biden run helps that cause. It does so by broadening the Democrats’ options. It creates a stronger field, from which the strongest nominee can emerge. (The downsides of a big field are often exaggerated: A divisive primary didn’t undermine Barack Obama in 2008. It helped him.) If Biden is as flawed as his critics think, he won’t win the nomination. Above all, a Biden run avoids repeating the mistake of 2016 — the hubris of imperfect foresight. For the same reason, I am glad Warren is running. She combines progressive passion with serious policy chops. I’m rooting for Kamala Harris and Beto O’Rourke, who do seem fresh and exciting, to run. I hope Sherrod Brown and Amy Klobuchar, two populist Midwesterners, run. I hope the uncommonly charismatic Mitch Landrieu does, too. This group, with Biden, is my A-list. And I wouldn’t be shocked to see another candidate do well enough to jump into the A-list. Yet Biden is unique among all of them. For starters, he would bring strengths to the actual job of president that the others would not. He has an intimate sense of the modern presidency. He has spent decades — literally, as he likes to say — doing battle with a radicalized Republican Party. He also has strengths as a candidate that the others do not. Imagine that the Trump administration descends further into chaos, through some combination of investigations and incompetence. It could certainly happen. In that case, Americans may no longer be so enamored of an outsider. They may be looking for a more reassuring figure than, say, a recently defeated senatorial candidate. To put it another way: If Mike Pence is president by year’s end, shouldn’t Democrats want Biden to be an option? Finally, Biden can take on Trump, starting right now, in distinct ways. As a front-runner, Biden will command attention that he can use to offer a running takedown of the Trump presidency. Biden can call out Trump as a fraud — one old white guy to another — which can soften up Trump regardless of who the nominee is. Let me repeat: My argument is not that Biden will be the best candidate. I don’t agree with his reported view that he alone among the Democrats can beat Trump. And he has real weaknesses, like the logorrhea that afflicts many longtime senators. I once attended a White House session during which I wasn’t sure if he would ever stop talking. If he runs, I hope he is smart and humble enough to insist on honest criticism from his advisers. My argument is that nobody — not the candidates, not the pollsters, not us pundits — knows who the best 2020 candidate will be. And Biden is different from the rest. A field with him puts the Democrats in a better position than one without him. The only mistake at this stage would to eliminate, pre-emptively, anybody with a decent chance to win. Democrats already tried that, not so long ago. It turned out to be a giant favor to Donald Trump. Sign up for David Leonhardt’s daily newsletter with commentary on the news and reading suggestions from around the web. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt • Facebook Supported by By Danny Hakim The Sanders Institute, a public policy group started by the wife and son of Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, said on Thursday that it would suspend operations amid Mr. Sanders’s presidential campaign. “When Bernie decided to run again, and announced it on Feb. 19, we thought it was better in today’s politics to definitely stop taking donations,” said Jane O’Meara Sanders, the senator’s wife and political adviser, in an interview. “We stopped taking donations right away, so that nobody could think they had access or could gain favor to Bernie by giving to the Sanders Institute.” She said the board had acted in late February at the urging of their son, David Driscoll, the institute’s executive director. The news was first reported by The Associated Press. The institute, begun in 2017, was envisioned as a wellspring of progressive policy that would build on Mr. Sanders’s agenda. The couple drew criticism over the involvement of Mr. Driscoll, who had previously served as an executive at Burton Snowboards and Nike. Last year, Mr. Driscoll was paid about $100,000, and the institute raised $730,000, Ms. Sanders said. She defended her son’s role. “Dave founded the institute. He’s raised the money to keep it going,” she said, adding, “When you found something, how can it be nepotism?” Mr. Driscoll, as part of a broader statement released by the institute, said he decided to recommend the pause in operations because “continuing our active role in policy development may create the false impression that the institute is part of the campaign.” “We are taking this step in keeping with that core principle of good governance,” he said. The move came less than a month after Mr. Sanders announced he would run for president again, a step that led to fresh inquiries about the institute and its practices. The New York Times had called and emailed the institute and its staff several times this week without response, and had asked the Sanders campaign earlier on Thursday to answer questions about the institute and its work. Mr. Sanders had been a critic of the Clinton Foundation during the 2016 presidential election, saying that he had a problem with the potential conflicts of interest created by raising money from foreign governments. The Sanders Institute has not released its donors, but operated on a much smaller scale. Ms. Sanders said the suspension was unrelated to the Clinton Foundation or the controversy that had enveloped President Trump’s foundation, which was forced to shutter by the New York attorney general’s office. “We didn’t think about the Clinton or the Trump foundation,” she said. “We just thought, I’m going to be very active” in the campaign, and “it’s just too mushy — it could become too mushy. We wanted to safeguard it. It’s a suspension, not a shutdown.” The institute’s mission was to “revitalize democracy by actively engaging individuals, organizations and the media in the pursuit of progressive solutions to economic, environmental, racial and social justice issues,” according to its website. Besides a three-day gathering of progressive activists last year, it gave funding to fellows and produced policy videos. Ms. Sanders emphasized that the suspension was only temporary. “The work will definitely come back,” she said.

Supported by By Danny Hakim The Sanders Institute, a public policy group started by the wife and son of Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, said on Thursday that it would suspend operations amid Mr. Sanders’s presidential campaign. “When Bernie decided to run again, and announced it on Feb. 19, we thought it was better in today’s politics to definitely stop taking donations,” said Jane O’Meara Sanders, the senator’s wife and political adviser, in an interview. “We stopped taking donations right away, so that nobody could think they had access or could gain favor to Bernie by giving to the Sanders Institute.” She said the board had acted in late February at the urging of their son, David Driscoll, the institute’s executive director. The news was first reported by The Associated Press. The institute, begun in 2017, was envisioned as a wellspring of progressive policy that would build on Mr. Sanders’s agenda. The couple drew criticism over the involvement of Mr. Driscoll, who had previously served as an executive at Burton Snowboards and Nike. Last year, Mr. Driscoll was paid about $100,000, and the institute raised $730,000, Ms. Sanders said. She defended her son’s role. “Dave founded the institute. He’s raised the money to keep it going,” she said, adding, “When you found something, how can it be nepotism?” Mr. Driscoll, as part of a broader statement released by the institute, said he decided to recommend the pause in operations because “continuing our active role in policy development may create the false impression that the institute is part of the campaign.” “We are taking this step in keeping with that core principle of good governance,” he said. The move came less than a month after Mr. Sanders announced he would run for president again, a step that led to fresh inquiries about the institute and its practices. The New York Times had called and emailed the institute and its staff several times this week without response, and had asked the Sanders campaign earlier on Thursday to answer questions about the institute and its work. Mr. Sanders had been a critic of the Clinton Foundation during the 2016 presidential election, saying that he had a problem with the potential conflicts of interest created by raising money from foreign governments. The Sanders Institute has not released its donors, but operated on a much smaller scale. Ms. Sanders said the suspension was unrelated to the Clinton Foundation or the controversy that had enveloped President Trump’s foundation, which was forced to shutter by the New York attorney general’s office. “We didn’t think about the Clinton or the Trump foundation,” she said. “We just thought, I’m going to be very active” in the campaign, and “it’s just too mushy — it could become too mushy. We wanted to safeguard it. It’s a suspension, not a shutdown.” The institute’s mission was to “revitalize democracy by actively engaging individuals, organizations and the media in the pursuit of progressive solutions to economic, environmental, racial and social justice issues,” according to its website. Besides a three-day gathering of progressive activists last year, it gave funding to fellows and produced policy videos. Ms. Sanders emphasized that the suspension was only temporary. “The work will definitely come back,” she said.Supported by By Chris Stanford (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good morning, We’re covering the aftermath of the devastating fire at Notre-Dame in Paris, tensions within the Democratic Party, and the expected release of the Mueller report. More than $450 million has already been committed to reconstruct the 850-year-old cathedral, which was badly damaged by fire on Monday. No one was killed, officials said, but two police officers and a firefighter were injured.  The twin medieval towers of one of the most famous landmarks in Paris were saved, but its 300-foot spire collapsed and two-thirds of its roof was destroyed. The fire also endangered its vast collection of Christian relics and artwork. The details: The cause of the fire remains unknown. Notre-Dame had been undergoing restoration work, which fire experts said can result in open flames or sparks from equipment. Here’s what we know and don’t know. Closer look: We have photographs of the cathedral through the ages and video of the disaster. Using images and maps, we also traced how the fire spread. Another angle: As France struggles to cope with recent social and political unrest, the symbolism of the blaze was hard to miss, our architecture critic writes. A blowup over the weekend pitted Mr. Sanders and his presidential campaign team against Neera Tanden, a former aide to Hillary Clinton who is now the president of an influential think tank, the Center for American Progress. Mr. Sanders’s team remains convinced that the Democratic establishment worked behind the scenes to deprive him of the party’s nomination in 2016. The new dispute reflects an ideological division among Democrats, between a legacy Clinton organization and a liberal wing trying to move the party to the left to harness the energy of younger voters. Yesterday: Mr. Sanders disclosed 10 years of tax returns, which showed that his earnings shot up after his first presidential bid. He and his wife, Jane O’Meara Sanders, reported income that topped $1 million in 2016 and 2017, lifted by proceeds from his books. Here’s how his returns compare with those of other Democratic candidates. Mr. Trump has referred to their country as “our enemy” and “a major threat,” but some of China’s intellectual and business elite are semi-seriously cheering on the U.S. president as he confronts a country that they feel is on the wrong track. True reform would have to come from within China, but if its trade dispute with the U.S. forces the Communist Party to step back from the economy, it might also have to loosen its grip over the rest of society. Quotable: “The various demands by the U.S. government could force us to carry on with the reforms,” one lawyer in Beijing said. “There’s a Chinese saying that carrying out a reform is equivalent to a man cutting off his own arm, which is very hard. It might help if someone else forces you to do it.” Related: Mr. Trump has used his unpredictability as a source of leverage in trade discussions with Europe, Canada, Mexico and others. Business groups and foreign officials worry that his negotiating style has a cost. Last year, Mississippi became one of the first states to allow sports betting after the Supreme Court struck down a law that had effectively banned it in most states. But the disappointing results of sports betting in places like Tunica, a Mississippi Delta town of about 900 residents, has caused other states to rethink a rush to try to tap into the nation’s illegal sports gambling market, estimated to be worth $150 billion.  Quotable: “There were a lot of people who didn’t know what they were talking about,” said Allen Godfrey, the executive director of the agency that oversees the sports betting ventures around Tunica. The philanthropist, with her husband, Bill, heads the charitable foundation that bears their name and is aimed at improving global health and reducing poverty. Its $50.7 billion endowment is the largest in the world. She spoke to the Times Magazine about tech innovation, women’s rights and her own privilege. Date for Mueller report: Attorney General William Barr will release a redacted version of Robert Mueller’s highly anticipated report to Congress and to the public on Thursday, a Justice Department spokeswoman said Monday. Subpoena for Trump lender: Congressional investigators have subpoenaed Deutsche Bank and other major institutions, seeking information about business dealings with Russia and President Trump’s finances.  Mar-a-Lago arrest: The Chinese woman who was detained at President Trump’s Florida resort knew before traveling to the U.S. that the event she was planning to attend had been canceled, federal prosecutors have said. They also said on Monday that they were no longer certain that a thumb drive she was carrying was infected with malware. College admissions scandal: Some children of the parents who were charged in the investigation have reportedly been notified that they could be targets of a criminal inquiry. Snapshot: Above, Lawrence Cherono of Kenya beat Lelisa Desisa of Ethiopia by two seconds at the Boston Marathon on Monday, winning in 2:07:57. Worknesh Degefa of Ethiopia ran away from the women’s field, finishing in 2:23:31. Another honor for Tiger Woods: President Trump said on Monday that he would award this year’s Masters champion the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the nation’s highest civilian honor. Late-night comedy: Jimmy Fallon impersonated Pete Buttigieg, the 37-year-old who officially launched his presidential campaign over the weekend: “By age 14, I knew I wanted to be president of the United States. And, boy, the two years since have just flown by.” What we’re reading: This essay in The Atlantic. Tom Jolly, who oversees production of our daily print edition, writes: “This is a nice distillation of the joys of reading the newspaper, at your own pace, uninterrupted by texts, calls and general attention-deficit issues. And you can even model your robe for your neighbors!” Cook: Buttermilk-marinated roast chicken requires a bit of advance preparation. (Our Five Weeknight Dishes newsletter has more recommendations.) Listen: “N Side,” the first new song in two years from Steve Lacy — who plays in the space-soul outfit the Internet — is a narcotically mellow inversion of 1970s R&B, Jon Caramanica writes. Go: Use our calendar to plan your culture consumption, including Adam Driver and Keri Russell onstage and the Cranberries’ final album. Watch: “Teen Spirit,” Max Minghella’s directing debut, is both proudly clichéd and refreshingly different. It’s a Critic’s Pick. Smarter Living: Simone Davies, an author and Montessori teacher, took our writer through a calming makeover of her children’s playroom. The main idea: Kids play more when there’s less to play with. So toys and books went into a closet, to be rotated out a few at a time. Older children’s crafts went into accessible bins.  And experts at Wirecutter have recommendations to make long flights more enjoyable. In smaller U.S. cities and rural areas, demographic decline is a painful reality. Hungary is worried about a declining population. So is Japan. Even China. It’s an economic truism: Growing populations drive economies. But in this era of climate change, is it wiser to have fewer people to house, feed and provide power for? Globally, a smaller population would “make a difference, certainly,” said Joseph Chamie, a former U.N. population official. “Fewer people means fewer items consumed, and fewer resources used, so your carbon footprint would be less.” But limiting population growth, he said, can’t solve the environmental problems caused by mass production and consumption. And companies whose business models rely on constant growth have little incentive to change. More customers and more consumption mean more profits. “We can try to maintain the quality of the environment,” Mr. Chamie said. “But we have to change our mind-set regarding how the economy moves.” That’s it for this briefing. See you next time. — Chris Thank youTo Mark Josephson, Eleanor Stanford and James K. Williamson for the break from the news. James also wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.  P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is about Carlos Ghosn, the former head of Nissan.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Exaggerate one’s fall, in soccer (4 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • The Times won two Pulitzer Prizes on Monday, one for an investigation of President Trump’s taxes, and one for Brent Staples’s editorial writing, which helped redefine the history of race in America. Chris Stanford is the writer of the U.S. edition of the Morning Briefing. He also compiles a weekly news quiz. He was previously a home page producer at The Times. Before 2013, he worked at The Washington Post and other news outlets.  @stanfordc 

Supported by By Chris Stanford (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good morning, We’re covering the aftermath of the devastating fire at Notre-Dame in Paris, tensions within the Democratic Party, and the expected release of the Mueller report. More than $450 million has already been committed to reconstruct the 850-year-old cathedral, which was badly damaged by fire on Monday. No one was killed, officials said, but two police officers and a firefighter were injured.  The twin medieval towers of one of the most famous landmarks in Paris were saved, but its 300-foot spire collapsed and two-thirds of its roof was destroyed. The fire also endangered its vast collection of Christian relics and artwork. The details: The cause of the fire remains unknown. Notre-Dame had been undergoing restoration work, which fire experts said can result in open flames or sparks from equipment. Here’s what we know and don’t know. Closer look: We have photographs of the cathedral through the ages and video of the disaster. Using images and maps, we also traced how the fire spread. Another angle: As France struggles to cope with recent social and political unrest, the symbolism of the blaze was hard to miss, our architecture critic writes. A blowup over the weekend pitted Mr. Sanders and his presidential campaign team against Neera Tanden, a former aide to Hillary Clinton who is now the president of an influential think tank, the Center for American Progress. Mr. Sanders’s team remains convinced that the Democratic establishment worked behind the scenes to deprive him of the party’s nomination in 2016. The new dispute reflects an ideological division among Democrats, between a legacy Clinton organization and a liberal wing trying to move the party to the left to harness the energy of younger voters. Yesterday: Mr. Sanders disclosed 10 years of tax returns, which showed that his earnings shot up after his first presidential bid. He and his wife, Jane O’Meara Sanders, reported income that topped $1 million in 2016 and 2017, lifted by proceeds from his books. Here’s how his returns compare with those of other Democratic candidates. Mr. Trump has referred to their country as “our enemy” and “a major threat,” but some of China’s intellectual and business elite are semi-seriously cheering on the U.S. president as he confronts a country that they feel is on the wrong track. True reform would have to come from within China, but if its trade dispute with the U.S. forces the Communist Party to step back from the economy, it might also have to loosen its grip over the rest of society. Quotable: “The various demands by the U.S. government could force us to carry on with the reforms,” one lawyer in Beijing said. “There’s a Chinese saying that carrying out a reform is equivalent to a man cutting off his own arm, which is very hard. It might help if someone else forces you to do it.” Related: Mr. Trump has used his unpredictability as a source of leverage in trade discussions with Europe, Canada, Mexico and others. Business groups and foreign officials worry that his negotiating style has a cost. Last year, Mississippi became one of the first states to allow sports betting after the Supreme Court struck down a law that had effectively banned it in most states. But the disappointing results of sports betting in places like Tunica, a Mississippi Delta town of about 900 residents, has caused other states to rethink a rush to try to tap into the nation’s illegal sports gambling market, estimated to be worth $150 billion.  Quotable: “There were a lot of people who didn’t know what they were talking about,” said Allen Godfrey, the executive director of the agency that oversees the sports betting ventures around Tunica. The philanthropist, with her husband, Bill, heads the charitable foundation that bears their name and is aimed at improving global health and reducing poverty. Its $50.7 billion endowment is the largest in the world. She spoke to the Times Magazine about tech innovation, women’s rights and her own privilege. Date for Mueller report: Attorney General William Barr will release a redacted version of Robert Mueller’s highly anticipated report to Congress and to the public on Thursday, a Justice Department spokeswoman said Monday. Subpoena for Trump lender: Congressional investigators have subpoenaed Deutsche Bank and other major institutions, seeking information about business dealings with Russia and President Trump’s finances.  Mar-a-Lago arrest: The Chinese woman who was detained at President Trump’s Florida resort knew before traveling to the U.S. that the event she was planning to attend had been canceled, federal prosecutors have said. They also said on Monday that they were no longer certain that a thumb drive she was carrying was infected with malware. College admissions scandal: Some children of the parents who were charged in the investigation have reportedly been notified that they could be targets of a criminal inquiry. Snapshot: Above, Lawrence Cherono of Kenya beat Lelisa Desisa of Ethiopia by two seconds at the Boston Marathon on Monday, winning in 2:07:57. Worknesh Degefa of Ethiopia ran away from the women’s field, finishing in 2:23:31. Another honor for Tiger Woods: President Trump said on Monday that he would award this year’s Masters champion the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the nation’s highest civilian honor. Late-night comedy: Jimmy Fallon impersonated Pete Buttigieg, the 37-year-old who officially launched his presidential campaign over the weekend: “By age 14, I knew I wanted to be president of the United States. And, boy, the two years since have just flown by.” What we’re reading: This essay in The Atlantic. Tom Jolly, who oversees production of our daily print edition, writes: “This is a nice distillation of the joys of reading the newspaper, at your own pace, uninterrupted by texts, calls and general attention-deficit issues. And you can even model your robe for your neighbors!” Cook: Buttermilk-marinated roast chicken requires a bit of advance preparation. (Our Five Weeknight Dishes newsletter has more recommendations.) Listen: “N Side,” the first new song in two years from Steve Lacy — who plays in the space-soul outfit the Internet — is a narcotically mellow inversion of 1970s R&B, Jon Caramanica writes. Go: Use our calendar to plan your culture consumption, including Adam Driver and Keri Russell onstage and the Cranberries’ final album. Watch: “Teen Spirit,” Max Minghella’s directing debut, is both proudly clichéd and refreshingly different. It’s a Critic’s Pick. Smarter Living: Simone Davies, an author and Montessori teacher, took our writer through a calming makeover of her children’s playroom. The main idea: Kids play more when there’s less to play with. So toys and books went into a closet, to be rotated out a few at a time. Older children’s crafts went into accessible bins.  And experts at Wirecutter have recommendations to make long flights more enjoyable. In smaller U.S. cities and rural areas, demographic decline is a painful reality. Hungary is worried about a declining population. So is Japan. Even China. It’s an economic truism: Growing populations drive economies. But in this era of climate change, is it wiser to have fewer people to house, feed and provide power for? Globally, a smaller population would “make a difference, certainly,” said Joseph Chamie, a former U.N. population official. “Fewer people means fewer items consumed, and fewer resources used, so your carbon footprint would be less.” But limiting population growth, he said, can’t solve the environmental problems caused by mass production and consumption. And companies whose business models rely on constant growth have little incentive to change. More customers and more consumption mean more profits. “We can try to maintain the quality of the environment,” Mr. Chamie said. “But we have to change our mind-set regarding how the economy moves.” That’s it for this briefing. See you next time. — Chris Thank youTo Mark Josephson, Eleanor Stanford and James K. Williamson for the break from the news. James also wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.  P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is about Carlos Ghosn, the former head of Nissan.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Exaggerate one’s fall, in soccer (4 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • The Times won two Pulitzer Prizes on Monday, one for an investigation of President Trump’s taxes, and one for Brent Staples’s editorial writing, which helped redefine the history of race in America. Chris Stanford is the writer of the U.S. edition of the Morning Briefing. He also compiles a weekly news quiz. He was previously a home page producer at The Times. Before 2013, he worked at The Washington Post and other news outlets.  @stanfordc Supported by By The Associated Press LONDON — WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange has exchanged a small room at the Ecuadorian Embassy in central London for a cell at Belmarsh Prison, a grim institution in the southeast part of the city where he nevertheless has certain advantages he didn't have when he was holed up, hiding from the law. WikiLeaks editor-in-chief Kristinn Hrafnsson said Friday that the ailing Assange should finally be able to receive medical care and will be able to meet with his lawyers more easily than he could in the embassy, where a feud with Ecuadorian authorities had led to a ban on most guests. The 47-year-old Assange has extreme shoulder pain and tooth pain, Hrafnsson said. For nearly seven years, Assange lived in the embassy without taking a step outside for fear of being arrested and sent to the U.S. to be prosecuted. On Thursday, British authorities dragged the Australian native from the embassy, and U.S. authorities announced charges against him of conspiring to break into a Pentagon computer, setting up what is expected to be an epic legal and political battle over whether to extradite him to the U.S. His arrest became possible after Ecuador revoked his political asylum, complaining that he was an obnoxious houseguest who didn't clean up after his cat and that WikiLeaks was plotting to blackmail the Latin American country's president. At the prison, where he is being held while the extradition process plays out, "there are medical facilities there, access to dental care I would assume, and a garden to go out into," Hrafnsson said. "But comparing one prison to another and giving a star rating is not really what's on my mind," he said. "What's on my mind is there's an innocent man in prison for doing his job as a journalist, and that's an outrage." He said Assange is in relatively good mental condition considering the stress of recent days. The political debate over whether to extradite Assange is already taking shape, with Britain's opposition Labour Party urging the government not to hand him over to the Americans. Party leader Jeremy Corbyn tweeted that the U.S. is prosecuting Assange because he exposed "evidence of atrocities in Iraq and Afghanistan." Diane Abbott, Labour's spokeswoman for domestic affairs, told Parliament: "It is this whistle-blowing into illegal wars, mass murder, murder of civilians and corruption on a grand scale that has put Julian Assange in the cross hairs of the U.S. administration." The politicization of the case reflects the clashing views of Assange as either a heroic whistleblower standing up to the mighty United States or a willing stooge who helped the Russians boost Donald Trump's presidential campaign by publishing hacked emails that embarrassed his rival, Hillary Clinton. Assange's bid to fend off extradition could take years and involve several layers of appeal. He could also face a second extradition request if Sweden decides to pursue a rape case against him that was suspended in 2017, when he was in the embassy, beyond the reach of the law. If found guilty of the U.S. charges, Assange could get five years in prison. His next court appearance is set for May 2 via a prison video link. Extradition lawyer Ben Keith said the court will not assess the evidence against Assange to determine his guilt or innocence but will scrutinize whether the offense he is accused of in the U.S. would be a crime in Britain. "The most likely outcome is that he will be extracted to the United States," he said. If Assange loses in extradition court, he could appeal several times and ultimately try to have his case heard at the European Court of Human Rights — unless Britain has left the European Union by that time.

Supported by By The Associated Press LONDON — WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange has exchanged a small room at the Ecuadorian Embassy in central London for a cell at Belmarsh Prison, a grim institution in the southeast part of the city where he nevertheless has certain advantages he didn't have when he was holed up, hiding from the law. WikiLeaks editor-in-chief Kristinn Hrafnsson said Friday that the ailing Assange should finally be able to receive medical care and will be able to meet with his lawyers more easily than he could in the embassy, where a feud with Ecuadorian authorities had led to a ban on most guests. The 47-year-old Assange has extreme shoulder pain and tooth pain, Hrafnsson said. For nearly seven years, Assange lived in the embassy without taking a step outside for fear of being arrested and sent to the U.S. to be prosecuted. On Thursday, British authorities dragged the Australian native from the embassy, and U.S. authorities announced charges against him of conspiring to break into a Pentagon computer, setting up what is expected to be an epic legal and political battle over whether to extradite him to the U.S. His arrest became possible after Ecuador revoked his political asylum, complaining that he was an obnoxious houseguest who didn't clean up after his cat and that WikiLeaks was plotting to blackmail the Latin American country's president. At the prison, where he is being held while the extradition process plays out, "there are medical facilities there, access to dental care I would assume, and a garden to go out into," Hrafnsson said. "But comparing one prison to another and giving a star rating is not really what's on my mind," he said. "What's on my mind is there's an innocent man in prison for doing his job as a journalist, and that's an outrage." He said Assange is in relatively good mental condition considering the stress of recent days. The political debate over whether to extradite Assange is already taking shape, with Britain's opposition Labour Party urging the government not to hand him over to the Americans. Party leader Jeremy Corbyn tweeted that the U.S. is prosecuting Assange because he exposed "evidence of atrocities in Iraq and Afghanistan." Diane Abbott, Labour's spokeswoman for domestic affairs, told Parliament: "It is this whistle-blowing into illegal wars, mass murder, murder of civilians and corruption on a grand scale that has put Julian Assange in the cross hairs of the U.S. administration." The politicization of the case reflects the clashing views of Assange as either a heroic whistleblower standing up to the mighty United States or a willing stooge who helped the Russians boost Donald Trump's presidential campaign by publishing hacked emails that embarrassed his rival, Hillary Clinton. Assange's bid to fend off extradition could take years and involve several layers of appeal. He could also face a second extradition request if Sweden decides to pursue a rape case against him that was suspended in 2017, when he was in the embassy, beyond the reach of the law. If found guilty of the U.S. charges, Assange could get five years in prison. His next court appearance is set for May 2 via a prison video link. Extradition lawyer Ben Keith said the court will not assess the evidence against Assange to determine his guilt or innocence but will scrutinize whether the offense he is accused of in the U.S. would be a crime in Britain. "The most likely outcome is that he will be extracted to the United States," he said. If Assange loses in extradition court, he could appeal several times and ultimately try to have his case heard at the European Court of Human Rights — unless Britain has left the European Union by that time.Supported by By Jonathan Martin Beto O’Rourke has hired a former top aide to Barack Obama to be his campaign manager, installing a seasoned political strategist to take the helm of what has so far been a skeletal organization effectively overseen by Mr. O’Rourke himself. Jennifer O’Malley Dillon, a data expert who was Mr. Obama’s deputy campaign manager in 2012, said in an interview Monday that she was going to work for the 46-year-old former Texas congressman because he represents “a new generation of leadership I think we need.” Ms. O’Malley Dillon was one of the most sought-after Democratic operatives of this election, and her hiring suggests that Mr. O’Rourke is willing to professionalize his presidential bid in a way he resisted during his electrifying but unsuccessful Senate campaign last year. A former executive director of the Democratic National Committee, Ms. O’Malley Dillon, 42, has worked on five presidential races and a number of other campaigns. “We’re excited that Jen O’Malley Dillon has joined our team,” said Mr. O’Rourke. “Her leadership, experience and creativity will be a great addition to a campaign that is already doing so much to bring people together to overcome the greatest set of challenges this country has ever faced.” Since announcing his candidacy earlier this month, Mr. O’Rourke has drawn large crowds on his first forays into the early nominating states. But his improvisational style has also led to some missteps. Ms. O’Malley Dillon said her hope was to scale up Mr. O’Rourke’s operation to meet the demands of a presidential primary while also remaining true to the do-it-yourself instincts of a candidate who enjoys driving himself to campaign events. “We have to build something that really is special and unique to him,” she said. [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join our conversation about the 2020 campaign.] Mr. O’Rourke entered the race without a campaign manager, having had his first extensive conversation with Ms. O’Malley Dillon at the South by Southwest conference in Austin, the weekend before he announced his candidacy. She is taking a leave from her Washington-based consulting firm, Precision Strategies, and will help on Mr. O’Rourke’s formal campaign launch this weekend in El Paso, where Mr. O’Rourke’s campaign is being based, before settling there in May. Ms. O’Malley Dillon, who had been working on a voter data project for the Democratic National Committee and consulting for the Liberal Party in Canada, said she had not planned to get involved this early in the 2020 race but said she was moved by Mr. O’Rourke’s message. “His leadership, his energy, his belief that you don’t have to segment voters and that you can be a president for all voters,” she said, assigning to Mr. O’Rourke attributes that many Democrats once associated with Mr. Obama. “People are searching for that.” As for whether Mr. O’Rourke would bring in a pollster for his presidential campaign — after boasting about his refusal to hire one in his Senate race — Ms. O’Malley Dillon said she wanted to build an operation that’s “authentic to Beto and also efficient and allows us the most direct engagement with voters.” That will, she said, “require a broad team.”   

Supported by By Jonathan Martin Beto O’Rourke has hired a former top aide to Barack Obama to be his campaign manager, installing a seasoned political strategist to take the helm of what has so far been a skeletal organization effectively overseen by Mr. O’Rourke himself. Jennifer O’Malley Dillon, a data expert who was Mr. Obama’s deputy campaign manager in 2012, said in an interview Monday that she was going to work for the 46-year-old former Texas congressman because he represents “a new generation of leadership I think we need.” Ms. O’Malley Dillon was one of the most sought-after Democratic operatives of this election, and her hiring suggests that Mr. O’Rourke is willing to professionalize his presidential bid in a way he resisted during his electrifying but unsuccessful Senate campaign last year. A former executive director of the Democratic National Committee, Ms. O’Malley Dillon, 42, has worked on five presidential races and a number of other campaigns. “We’re excited that Jen O’Malley Dillon has joined our team,” said Mr. O’Rourke. “Her leadership, experience and creativity will be a great addition to a campaign that is already doing so much to bring people together to overcome the greatest set of challenges this country has ever faced.” Since announcing his candidacy earlier this month, Mr. O’Rourke has drawn large crowds on his first forays into the early nominating states. But his improvisational style has also led to some missteps. Ms. O’Malley Dillon said her hope was to scale up Mr. O’Rourke’s operation to meet the demands of a presidential primary while also remaining true to the do-it-yourself instincts of a candidate who enjoys driving himself to campaign events. “We have to build something that really is special and unique to him,” she said. [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join our conversation about the 2020 campaign.] Mr. O’Rourke entered the race without a campaign manager, having had his first extensive conversation with Ms. O’Malley Dillon at the South by Southwest conference in Austin, the weekend before he announced his candidacy. She is taking a leave from her Washington-based consulting firm, Precision Strategies, and will help on Mr. O’Rourke’s formal campaign launch this weekend in El Paso, where Mr. O’Rourke’s campaign is being based, before settling there in May. Ms. O’Malley Dillon, who had been working on a voter data project for the Democratic National Committee and consulting for the Liberal Party in Canada, said she had not planned to get involved this early in the 2020 race but said she was moved by Mr. O’Rourke’s message. “His leadership, his energy, his belief that you don’t have to segment voters and that you can be a president for all voters,” she said, assigning to Mr. O’Rourke attributes that many Democrats once associated with Mr. Obama. “People are searching for that.” As for whether Mr. O’Rourke would bring in a pollster for his presidential campaign — after boasting about his refusal to hire one in his Senate race — Ms. O’Malley Dillon said she wanted to build an operation that’s “authentic to Beto and also efficient and allows us the most direct engagement with voters.” That will, she said, “require a broad team.”   Supported by By Reuters TIJUANA, Mexico/SAN DIEGO — On Tuesday, seven Central American families living temporarily in Mexico appeared in a San Diego immigration court to plead for asylum in the United States. Mindful of a federal court ruling the day before that halted the Trump administration's policy of making asylum seekers wait in Mexico, the judge repeatedly asked the U.S. government lawyer what would happen to these families now. "I do not have an answer,” replied the lawyer, Kathryn Stuever. Neither the U.S. government nor the more than 1,000 people awaiting asylum hearings in Tijuana and other border cities knows what will happen next to families already returned to Mexico by the Trump administration.  The ruling by a U.S. District Court judge on Monday made clear that the 11 plaintiffs who sued the government over the policy would be brought back to the United States to press their asylum claims. It also made clear that, for now, new asylum seekers could not be forced to await resolution of their cases south of the border. But the hundreds of people now living in shelters, from tents inside warehouses to more established settings, are in legal limbo - a situation some say frightens them because they feel vulnerable to kidnappings, violence and serious illness. The migrants are from El Salvador, Honduras, Guatemala and Nicaragua and 286 of them are children. Most do not have legal representation, according to immigration advocates. In interviews with Reuters in recent days, several reported robberies, violence or attempts to kidnap their children. Reuters was not able to independently verify their claims. But those interviewed said they did not feel safe in Tijuana and were scared to leave the shelters housing them.  The ruling does not go into effect until Friday and the White House said it would appeal, which could put the decision on hold. The administration has contended that the asylum seekers are pushing the immigration system to its limits. The appeals process could take months, perhaps extending through the 2020 presidential campaign, legal experts said.  In court Tuesday, Veronica Guadalupe Galdamez, 32, appeared with her two children and her partner. They asked for more time to get a lawyer. In court, her partner claimed fear of being returned to Mexico because "someone tried to take one of the children." Galdamez told Reuters this week she fled El Salvador in 2018 after gang threats. Within minutes of returning to Mexico after her first U.S. court hearing on April 1, she said, two men tried to steal her 4-year-old son. Reuters was not able to independently corroborate her story.  The dangers of Tijuana are generally known, however. With 138 murders per 100,000 residents in 2018, Tijuana was the most violent city in the world outside a war zone, according to a recent study by Mexico's Security, Justice and Peace group. San Salvador ranked 24th, with a rate of 50, the study showed. After appearing in court on Tuesday, Galdamez and her family were referred to an interview with an asylum officer. Her family's fate was uncertain.  Others in the program remained in Mexico on Tuesday, wondering what the ruling meant for their futures. Carmen Zepeda, 45, from El Salvador, was returned to Tijuana last month and has her first court hearing on April 22. She fled San Salvador following a death threat against her son and domestic abuse by her husband, she said. "Now we're in danger here as well," she said. "I'm praying they give me the opportunity to cross."  (Reporting by Andrew Hay in Tijuana, Mexico and Jose Gallego Espina in San Diego; Additional reporting by Yeganeh Torbati, Tom Hals and Lizbeth Diaz; Writing by Kristina Cooke; Editing by Julie Marquis and Lisa Shumaker)

Supported by By Reuters TIJUANA, Mexico/SAN DIEGO — On Tuesday, seven Central American families living temporarily in Mexico appeared in a San Diego immigration court to plead for asylum in the United States. Mindful of a federal court ruling the day before that halted the Trump administration's policy of making asylum seekers wait in Mexico, the judge repeatedly asked the U.S. government lawyer what would happen to these families now. "I do not have an answer,” replied the lawyer, Kathryn Stuever. Neither the U.S. government nor the more than 1,000 people awaiting asylum hearings in Tijuana and other border cities knows what will happen next to families already returned to Mexico by the Trump administration.  The ruling by a U.S. District Court judge on Monday made clear that the 11 plaintiffs who sued the government over the policy would be brought back to the United States to press their asylum claims. It also made clear that, for now, new asylum seekers could not be forced to await resolution of their cases south of the border. But the hundreds of people now living in shelters, from tents inside warehouses to more established settings, are in legal limbo - a situation some say frightens them because they feel vulnerable to kidnappings, violence and serious illness. The migrants are from El Salvador, Honduras, Guatemala and Nicaragua and 286 of them are children. Most do not have legal representation, according to immigration advocates. In interviews with Reuters in recent days, several reported robberies, violence or attempts to kidnap their children. Reuters was not able to independently verify their claims. But those interviewed said they did not feel safe in Tijuana and were scared to leave the shelters housing them.  The ruling does not go into effect until Friday and the White House said it would appeal, which could put the decision on hold. The administration has contended that the asylum seekers are pushing the immigration system to its limits. The appeals process could take months, perhaps extending through the 2020 presidential campaign, legal experts said.  In court Tuesday, Veronica Guadalupe Galdamez, 32, appeared with her two children and her partner. They asked for more time to get a lawyer. In court, her partner claimed fear of being returned to Mexico because "someone tried to take one of the children." Galdamez told Reuters this week she fled El Salvador in 2018 after gang threats. Within minutes of returning to Mexico after her first U.S. court hearing on April 1, she said, two men tried to steal her 4-year-old son. Reuters was not able to independently corroborate her story.  The dangers of Tijuana are generally known, however. With 138 murders per 100,000 residents in 2018, Tijuana was the most violent city in the world outside a war zone, according to a recent study by Mexico's Security, Justice and Peace group. San Salvador ranked 24th, with a rate of 50, the study showed. After appearing in court on Tuesday, Galdamez and her family were referred to an interview with an asylum officer. Her family's fate was uncertain.  Others in the program remained in Mexico on Tuesday, wondering what the ruling meant for their futures. Carmen Zepeda, 45, from El Salvador, was returned to Tijuana last month and has her first court hearing on April 22. She fled San Salvador following a death threat against her son and domestic abuse by her husband, she said. "Now we're in danger here as well," she said. "I'm praying they give me the opportunity to cross."  (Reporting by Andrew Hay in Tijuana, Mexico and Jose Gallego Espina in San Diego; Additional reporting by Yeganeh Torbati, Tom Hals and Lizbeth Diaz; Writing by Kristina Cooke; Editing by Julie Marquis and Lisa Shumaker)Supported by By Reuters TIJUANA, Mexico/SAN DIEGO — On Tuesday, seven Central American families living temporarily in Mexico appeared in a San Diego immigration court to plead for asylum in the United States. Mindful of a federal court ruling the day before that halted the Trump administration's policy of making asylum seekers wait in Mexico, the judge repeatedly asked the U.S. government lawyer what would happen to these families now. "I do not have an answer,” replied the lawyer, Kathryn Stuever. Neither the U.S. government nor the more than 1,000 people awaiting asylum hearings in Tijuana and other border cities knows what will happen next to families already returned to Mexico by the Trump administration.  The ruling by a U.S. District Court judge on Monday made clear that the 11 plaintiffs who sued the government over the policy would be brought back to the United States to press their asylum claims. It also made clear that, for now, new asylum seekers could not be forced to await resolution of their cases south of the border. But the hundreds of people now living in shelters, from tents inside warehouses to more established settings, are in legal limbo - a situation some say frightens them because they feel vulnerable to kidnappings, violence and serious illness. The migrants are from El Salvador, Honduras, Guatemala and Nicaragua and 286 of them are children. Most do not have legal representation, according to immigration advocates. In interviews with Reuters in recent days, several reported robberies, violence or attempts to kidnap their children. Reuters was not able to independently verify their claims. But those interviewed said they did not feel safe in Tijuana and were scared to leave the shelters housing them.  The ruling does not go into effect until Friday and the White House said it would appeal, which could put the decision on hold. The administration has contended that the asylum seekers are pushing the immigration system to its limits. The appeals process could take months, perhaps extending through the 2020 presidential campaign, legal experts said.  In court Tuesday, Veronica Guadalupe Galdamez, 32, appeared with her two children and her partner. They asked for more time to get a lawyer. In court, her partner claimed fear of being returned to Mexico because "someone tried to take one of the children." Galdamez told Reuters this week she fled El Salvador in 2018 after gang threats. Within minutes of returning to Mexico after her first U.S. court hearing on April 1, she said, two men tried to steal her 4-year-old son. Reuters was not able to independently corroborate her story.  The dangers of Tijuana are generally known, however. With 138 murders per 100,000 residents in 2018, Tijuana was the most violent city in the world outside a war zone, according to a recent study by Mexico's Security, Justice and Peace group. San Salvador ranked 24th, with a rate of 50, the study showed. After appearing in court on Tuesday, Galdamez and her family were referred to an interview with an asylum officer. Her family's fate was uncertain.  Others in the programme remained in Mexico on Tuesday, wondering what the ruling meant for their futures. Carmen Zepeda, 45, from El Salvador, was returned to Tijuana last month and has her first court hearing on April 22. She fled San Salvador following a death threat against her son and domestic abuse by her husband, she said. "Now we're in danger here as well," she said. "I'm praying they give me the opportunity to cross."  (Reporting by Andrew Hay in Tijuana, Mexico and Jose Gallego Espina in San Diego; Additional reporting by Yeganeh Torbati, Tom Hals and Lizbeth Diaz; Writing by Kristina Cooke; Editing by Julie Marquis and Lisa Shumaker)

Supported by By Reuters TIJUANA, Mexico/SAN DIEGO — On Tuesday, seven Central American families living temporarily in Mexico appeared in a San Diego immigration court to plead for asylum in the United States. Mindful of a federal court ruling the day before that halted the Trump administration's policy of making asylum seekers wait in Mexico, the judge repeatedly asked the U.S. government lawyer what would happen to these families now. "I do not have an answer,” replied the lawyer, Kathryn Stuever. Neither the U.S. government nor the more than 1,000 people awaiting asylum hearings in Tijuana and other border cities knows what will happen next to families already returned to Mexico by the Trump administration.  The ruling by a U.S. District Court judge on Monday made clear that the 11 plaintiffs who sued the government over the policy would be brought back to the United States to press their asylum claims. It also made clear that, for now, new asylum seekers could not be forced to await resolution of their cases south of the border. But the hundreds of people now living in shelters, from tents inside warehouses to more established settings, are in legal limbo - a situation some say frightens them because they feel vulnerable to kidnappings, violence and serious illness. The migrants are from El Salvador, Honduras, Guatemala and Nicaragua and 286 of them are children. Most do not have legal representation, according to immigration advocates. In interviews with Reuters in recent days, several reported robberies, violence or attempts to kidnap their children. Reuters was not able to independently verify their claims. But those interviewed said they did not feel safe in Tijuana and were scared to leave the shelters housing them.  The ruling does not go into effect until Friday and the White House said it would appeal, which could put the decision on hold. The administration has contended that the asylum seekers are pushing the immigration system to its limits. The appeals process could take months, perhaps extending through the 2020 presidential campaign, legal experts said.  In court Tuesday, Veronica Guadalupe Galdamez, 32, appeared with her two children and her partner. They asked for more time to get a lawyer. In court, her partner claimed fear of being returned to Mexico because "someone tried to take one of the children." Galdamez told Reuters this week she fled El Salvador in 2018 after gang threats. Within minutes of returning to Mexico after her first U.S. court hearing on April 1, she said, two men tried to steal her 4-year-old son. Reuters was not able to independently corroborate her story.  The dangers of Tijuana are generally known, however. With 138 murders per 100,000 residents in 2018, Tijuana was the most violent city in the world outside a war zone, according to a recent study by Mexico's Security, Justice and Peace group. San Salvador ranked 24th, with a rate of 50, the study showed. After appearing in court on Tuesday, Galdamez and her family were referred to an interview with an asylum officer. Her family's fate was uncertain.  Others in the programme remained in Mexico on Tuesday, wondering what the ruling meant for their futures. Carmen Zepeda, 45, from El Salvador, was returned to Tijuana last month and has her first court hearing on April 22. She fled San Salvador following a death threat against her son and domestic abuse by her husband, she said. "Now we're in danger here as well," she said. "I'm praying they give me the opportunity to cross."  (Reporting by Andrew Hay in Tijuana, Mexico and Jose Gallego Espina in San Diego; Additional reporting by Yeganeh Torbati, Tom Hals and Lizbeth Diaz; Writing by Kristina Cooke; Editing by Julie Marquis and Lisa Shumaker)Supported by By Reuters SAN ANTONIO — U.S. President Donald Trump said on Wednesday he would have to mobilize more of the military at the U.S. border with Mexico after listening to stories about migrants crossing the border from people attending a Republican fundraiser. "I'm going to have to call up more military," Trump said. The president said some of the people crossing the border were ending up dead from the journey on Americans' ranches. He interrupted his discussion with Republican donors to bring in reporters to listen to the stories about the border.  "Many, many dead people," Trump said, referring to migrants who he said had perished after making the journey. "Also they come in and raid their houses, and it's very dangerous," Trump said, referring to locals affected by the influx of migrants. There are currently about 5,000 active-duty and National Guard troops near the border, though that number fluctuates. "We support our federal partners," Pentagon spokesman Army Lieutenant Colonel Jamie Davis said when asked about Trump's comments. Trump in February had deployed an additional 3,750 U.S. troops to the country's southwestern border to support Customs and Border Protection agents. Later that month, Democratic governors of states including Wisconsin, New Mexico and California withdrew their National Guard troops, saying there was not enough evidence of a security crisis to justify keeping them there. Trump, who drew sharp criticism for saying during the 2016 presidential campaign that Mexico was sending rapists and drug runners to the United States, said on Wednesday that those comments were tame compared to the stories he had heard since. "People are dying. Great people are dying. Bad people are coming up. You have both," he said. "From the time I made my first speech at Trump Tower, when I mentioned the word 'rape' and everybody went crazy - because that turned out to be nothing compared to what happens on those journeys up. Nothing. My speech was so tame, as it turned out." Trump has made immigration a signature issue of his presidency and of his re-election campaign. He declared a national emergency over the issue earlier this year in an effort to redirect funding from Congress to build a wall along the U.S. southern border.  Earlier this week he announced that Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen was stepping down. White House officials said he wanted new leadership at the department to focus more closely on what he has called a border crisis. Trump is in Texas for fundraising stops that Republican National Committee Chair Ronna McDaniel said would raise some $6 million. Trump and the other participants at the San Antonio fundraiser emphasized the toll that the trips across the border were taking. "Let me tell you, we can document well over a thousand dead bodies over the last five to six to seven years. That’s the ones that we find," said Texas Lieutenant Governor Dan Patrick. Trump said his proposed wall would help. "If you had a wall, they wouldn't be able to get through ... You know, ... you can take them to some place where they can be taken care of. And they won't come; you won't have so many - because if they know they can't get through, they're not going to come," he said.  (Reporting by Jeff Mason; additional reporting by Idrees Ali; Editing by James Dalgleish)

Supported by By Reuters SAN ANTONIO — U.S. President Donald Trump said on Wednesday he would have to mobilize more of the military at the U.S. border with Mexico after listening to stories about migrants crossing the border from people attending a Republican fundraiser. "I'm going to have to call up more military," Trump said. The president said some of the people crossing the border were ending up dead from the journey on Americans' ranches. He interrupted his discussion with Republican donors to bring in reporters to listen to the stories about the border.  "Many, many dead people," Trump said, referring to migrants who he said had perished after making the journey. "Also they come in and raid their houses, and it's very dangerous," Trump said, referring to locals affected by the influx of migrants. There are currently about 5,000 active-duty and National Guard troops near the border, though that number fluctuates. "We support our federal partners," Pentagon spokesman Army Lieutenant Colonel Jamie Davis said when asked about Trump's comments. Trump in February had deployed an additional 3,750 U.S. troops to the country's southwestern border to support Customs and Border Protection agents. Later that month, Democratic governors of states including Wisconsin, New Mexico and California withdrew their National Guard troops, saying there was not enough evidence of a security crisis to justify keeping them there. Trump, who drew sharp criticism for saying during the 2016 presidential campaign that Mexico was sending rapists and drug runners to the United States, said on Wednesday that those comments were tame compared to the stories he had heard since. "People are dying. Great people are dying. Bad people are coming up. You have both," he said. "From the time I made my first speech at Trump Tower, when I mentioned the word 'rape' and everybody went crazy - because that turned out to be nothing compared to what happens on those journeys up. Nothing. My speech was so tame, as it turned out." Trump has made immigration a signature issue of his presidency and of his re-election campaign. He declared a national emergency over the issue earlier this year in an effort to redirect funding from Congress to build a wall along the U.S. southern border.  Earlier this week he announced that Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen was stepping down. White House officials said he wanted new leadership at the department to focus more closely on what he has called a border crisis. Trump is in Texas for fundraising stops that Republican National Committee Chair Ronna McDaniel said would raise some $6 million. Trump and the other participants at the San Antonio fundraiser emphasized the toll that the trips across the border were taking. "Let me tell you, we can document well over a thousand dead bodies over the last five to six to seven years. That’s the ones that we find," said Texas Lieutenant Governor Dan Patrick. Trump said his proposed wall would help. "If you had a wall, they wouldn't be able to get through ... You know, ... you can take them to some place where they can be taken care of. And they won't come; you won't have so many - because if they know they can't get through, they're not going to come," he said.  (Reporting by Jeff Mason; additional reporting by Idrees Ali; Editing by James Dalgleish)Supported by Good Monday morning. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today. _____________________ • President Trump offered Democrats a deal: temporary protections for the so-called Dreamers, in exchange for $5.7 billion in funding for a border wall. Democratic leaders called it a “hostage taking,” saying they wouldn’t negotiate until the government reopens. On Sunday, the president attacked Democrats and defended his plan to conservative critics who said he gave in to liberals’ demands. • Resolving the shutdown may require cooperation from the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, and the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi. If history is any indication, it won’t be an easy task. • Last week, a group of House freshmen in Trump-leaning districts convened a private strategy session to discuss how they could press Ms. Pelosi to reclaim the issue of border security for Democrats. • As the longest government shutdown in American history continues, federal workers who are not getting paid are increasingly turning to pawnbrokers for short-term loans. • Those who have been watching Mr. Trump in the business world for decades see a familiar pattern in how he governs: He cares most about declaring himself a winner, and his opponent a loser. • Mr. Trump was involved in discussions to build a skyscraper in Moscow throughout the entire 2016 presidential campaign, his personal lawyer said on Sunday, a longer and more significant role for Mr. Trump than he had previously acknowledged. • Beto O’Rourke’s potential 2020 run has some Democrats worried about his go-it-alone streak. Could they count on him to be a team player? • Campaigning in Iowa, Senator Kirsten Gillibrand emphasized her past representing a conservative House district in an effort to ensure she is not pigeonholed as just another blue-state Democrat. • A new inside account of the White House describes a nest of back-stabbing and duplicity within the West Wing. The author is Cliff Sims, a former communications staff member and Trump loyalist who worked on the campaign. Note: The evening edition of the newsletter is off today for Martin Luther King Jr. Day. It will return on Tuesday. _____________________ Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.

Supported by Good Monday morning. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today. _____________________ • President Trump offered Democrats a deal: temporary protections for the so-called Dreamers, in exchange for $5.7 billion in funding for a border wall. Democratic leaders called it a “hostage taking,” saying they wouldn’t negotiate until the government reopens. On Sunday, the president attacked Democrats and defended his plan to conservative critics who said he gave in to liberals’ demands. • Resolving the shutdown may require cooperation from the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, and the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi. If history is any indication, it won’t be an easy task. • Last week, a group of House freshmen in Trump-leaning districts convened a private strategy session to discuss how they could press Ms. Pelosi to reclaim the issue of border security for Democrats. • As the longest government shutdown in American history continues, federal workers who are not getting paid are increasingly turning to pawnbrokers for short-term loans. • Those who have been watching Mr. Trump in the business world for decades see a familiar pattern in how he governs: He cares most about declaring himself a winner, and his opponent a loser. • Mr. Trump was involved in discussions to build a skyscraper in Moscow throughout the entire 2016 presidential campaign, his personal lawyer said on Sunday, a longer and more significant role for Mr. Trump than he had previously acknowledged. • Beto O’Rourke’s potential 2020 run has some Democrats worried about his go-it-alone streak. Could they count on him to be a team player? • Campaigning in Iowa, Senator Kirsten Gillibrand emphasized her past representing a conservative House district in an effort to ensure she is not pigeonholed as just another blue-state Democrat. • A new inside account of the White House describes a nest of back-stabbing and duplicity within the West Wing. The author is Cliff Sims, a former communications staff member and Trump loyalist who worked on the campaign. Note: The evening edition of the newsletter is off today for Martin Luther King Jr. Day. It will return on Tuesday. _____________________ Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.Supported by By Maggie Astor You may have heard about the Overton window, and that’s not about to stop. With the political landscape shifting in sometimes startling ways, what was once an obscure idea has gained broader relevance. But while the term has been bandied about lately, it hasn’t always been by people who know what they’re talking about. And it’s important to get this right. You’ve probably noticed that policies once dismissed out of hand — from “Medicare for all” to a 70 percent top tax rate; from sweeping action on climate change to abolishing Immigration and Customs Enforcement — are being discussed in mainstream circles now. The Overton window is a useful way to understand what’s happening. Joseph P. Overton introduced the concept in the 1990s as an executive at the Mackinac Center for Public Policy, a conservative think tank in Michigan. He never expected it to gain widespread recognition, said Joseph G. Lehman, president of the Mackinac Center, and it didn’t until after Mr. Overton died in 2003. Mr. Overton just wanted to explain to potential donors what the point of a think tank was, so he created a brochure with a cardboard slider. The brochure listed the range of possible policies on a single issue, from least to most government intervention. On education — an example the Mackinac Center uses — it might run from zero public investment in education to compulsory indoctrination in government schools. But neither of those extremes is going to happen. Only part of the range is achievable, and when Mr. Overton moved his slider, different policies fell into what he called the window of political possibility. “Public officials cannot enact any policy they please like they’re ordering dessert from a menu,” Mr. Lehman said in an interview. “They have to choose from among policies that are politically acceptable at the time. And we believe the Overton window defines that range of ideas.” Grass-roots mobilization can shift the window. So can think tanks, which was Mr. Overton’s point. But despite a misconception driven by Glenn Beck’s novel “The Overton Window,” the window is a description, not a tactic: Shifting it doesn’t mean proposing extreme ideas to make somewhat less extreme ideas seem reasonable. “It just explains how ideas come in and out of fashion, the same way that gravity explains why something falls to the earth,” Mr. Lehman said. “I can use gravity to drop an anvil on your head, but that would be wrong. I could also use gravity to throw you a life preserver; that would be good.” The key is that shifts begin with the public. Mr. Overton argued that the role of organizations like his own was not to lobby politicians to support policies outside the window, but to convince voters that policies outside the window should be in it. If they are successful, an idea derided as unthinkable can become so inevitable that it’s hard to believe it was ever otherwise. The current shift toward progressive economic policies is clear and quantifiable. Take some of the legislation introduced by Senator Bernie Sanders, whose 2016 presidential campaign helped popularize these ideas. In 2015, his bills to make public colleges free and expand Social Security had no co-sponsors in the Senate. Two years later, they had seven and 17, respectively, in addition to 50 and 133 co-sponsors in the House. His signature measure, the Medicare for All Act, had no Senate co-sponsors in 2013 (he didn’t introduce it in 2015), but four years later it had 16, along with 125 in the House. “We have come a very, very long way in the American people now demanding legislation and concepts that just a few years ago were thought to be very radical,” Mr. Sanders said in a recent interview. His support for these policies set him apart in the 2016 Democratic field, but they are mainstream positions among the 2020 candidates — because, increasingly, they are mainstream positions among the voters those candidates are courting. Mr. Sanders emphasized as much in announcing his second presidential campaign on Tuesday. Most telling, perhaps, is that even opponents are taking the ideas seriously: They might not want Medicare for all, but they believe it could happen and are fighting it accordingly. If a policy is dead on arrival, you don’t have to fight it. That the Overton window is shifting doesn’t necessarily mean policies like Medicare for all will be enacted, and it doesn’t say anything about whether they are good or bad. But it does say something meaningful about the political climate. Part of the story is polarization: Democrats moving left and Republicans right, to an extent “that we haven’t seen previously in a modern political period,” said Mary Layton Atkinson, a political scientist at the University of North Carolina at Charlotte who studies public opinion and issue framing. “Republicans have become just as entrenched in their own conservative policy preferences.” As support for more ambitious policies has increased among Democrats, there has also been “a wave of young party leaders who are less encumbered by a long voting history tying them to more moderate and less progressive policy stances,” Dr. Atkinson said. “And they’re being supported by a base that is ready to hear these messages.” But polarization isn’t the only factor. Polls show that some support crosses the partisan divide. Forty-five percent of Republicans in one poll supported Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez’s suggestion to tax income over $10 million at 70 percent; among all American adults, 59 percent supported that. Thirty-seven percent of Republicans said they would vote for a candidate who supported a Medicare for all plan; 53 percent of all Americans said the same. Leaders like Mr. Sanders and Ms. Ocasio-Cortez argue that voters are rejecting longstanding economic assumptions because those assumptions haven’t yielded the promised results. “I think the line of trickle-down economics improving the lives of everybody doesn’t work when in the last 30 or 40 years, the lives of the middle class have become significantly more difficult at the same time as we’ve seen massive income and wealth inequality,” Mr. Sanders said. That sentiment is far from universal, and many Americans still support “trickle-down” policies. Conservatives and some moderates — including possible presidential candidates like Michael Bloomberg — view proposals like “Medicare for all” or a wealth tax as extreme, and it is not clear how those proposals would play in a presidential general election. But since Mr. Sanders and Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, who is also running for president, began speaking on national stages about ideas once confined to small circles, criticism of those ideas has ceased to dominate the political conversation, and voters are seeing practicality in ideas long considered idealistic. (Ms. Warren’s campaign did not make her available for an interview.) “I think people like Warren and Sanders deserve a lot of credit for advancing these ideas before they were cool,” said Tom Perriello, executive director for U.S. programs at the Open Society Foundations, who co-wrote an article last year about the increasing popularity of once-unthinkable policies. “It created a conversation people hadn’t heard before, and then had the option to look at it and say, ‘Wait, that sounds like a much better idea than what I’ve been hearing before.’” Follow Maggie Astor on Twitter: @MaggieAstor.    

Supported by By Maggie Astor You may have heard about the Overton window, and that’s not about to stop. With the political landscape shifting in sometimes startling ways, what was once an obscure idea has gained broader relevance. But while the term has been bandied about lately, it hasn’t always been by people who know what they’re talking about. And it’s important to get this right. You’ve probably noticed that policies once dismissed out of hand — from “Medicare for all” to a 70 percent top tax rate; from sweeping action on climate change to abolishing Immigration and Customs Enforcement — are being discussed in mainstream circles now. The Overton window is a useful way to understand what’s happening. Joseph P. Overton introduced the concept in the 1990s as an executive at the Mackinac Center for Public Policy, a conservative think tank in Michigan. He never expected it to gain widespread recognition, said Joseph G. Lehman, president of the Mackinac Center, and it didn’t until after Mr. Overton died in 2003. Mr. Overton just wanted to explain to potential donors what the point of a think tank was, so he created a brochure with a cardboard slider. The brochure listed the range of possible policies on a single issue, from least to most government intervention. On education — an example the Mackinac Center uses — it might run from zero public investment in education to compulsory indoctrination in government schools. But neither of those extremes is going to happen. Only part of the range is achievable, and when Mr. Overton moved his slider, different policies fell into what he called the window of political possibility. “Public officials cannot enact any policy they please like they’re ordering dessert from a menu,” Mr. Lehman said in an interview. “They have to choose from among policies that are politically acceptable at the time. And we believe the Overton window defines that range of ideas.” Grass-roots mobilization can shift the window. So can think tanks, which was Mr. Overton’s point. But despite a misconception driven by Glenn Beck’s novel “The Overton Window,” the window is a description, not a tactic: Shifting it doesn’t mean proposing extreme ideas to make somewhat less extreme ideas seem reasonable. “It just explains how ideas come in and out of fashion, the same way that gravity explains why something falls to the earth,” Mr. Lehman said. “I can use gravity to drop an anvil on your head, but that would be wrong. I could also use gravity to throw you a life preserver; that would be good.” The key is that shifts begin with the public. Mr. Overton argued that the role of organizations like his own was not to lobby politicians to support policies outside the window, but to convince voters that policies outside the window should be in it. If they are successful, an idea derided as unthinkable can become so inevitable that it’s hard to believe it was ever otherwise. The current shift toward progressive economic policies is clear and quantifiable. Take some of the legislation introduced by Senator Bernie Sanders, whose 2016 presidential campaign helped popularize these ideas. In 2015, his bills to make public colleges free and expand Social Security had no co-sponsors in the Senate. Two years later, they had seven and 17, respectively, in addition to 50 and 133 co-sponsors in the House. His signature measure, the Medicare for All Act, had no Senate co-sponsors in 2013 (he didn’t introduce it in 2015), but four years later it had 16, along with 125 in the House. “We have come a very, very long way in the American people now demanding legislation and concepts that just a few years ago were thought to be very radical,” Mr. Sanders said in a recent interview. His support for these policies set him apart in the 2016 Democratic field, but they are mainstream positions among the 2020 candidates — because, increasingly, they are mainstream positions among the voters those candidates are courting. Mr. Sanders emphasized as much in announcing his second presidential campaign on Tuesday. Most telling, perhaps, is that even opponents are taking the ideas seriously: They might not want Medicare for all, but they believe it could happen and are fighting it accordingly. If a policy is dead on arrival, you don’t have to fight it. That the Overton window is shifting doesn’t necessarily mean policies like Medicare for all will be enacted, and it doesn’t say anything about whether they are good or bad. But it does say something meaningful about the political climate. Part of the story is polarization: Democrats moving left and Republicans right, to an extent “that we haven’t seen previously in a modern political period,” said Mary Layton Atkinson, a political scientist at the University of North Carolina at Charlotte who studies public opinion and issue framing. “Republicans have become just as entrenched in their own conservative policy preferences.” As support for more ambitious policies has increased among Democrats, there has also been “a wave of young party leaders who are less encumbered by a long voting history tying them to more moderate and less progressive policy stances,” Dr. Atkinson said. “And they’re being supported by a base that is ready to hear these messages.” But polarization isn’t the only factor. Polls show that some support crosses the partisan divide. Forty-five percent of Republicans in one poll supported Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez’s suggestion to tax income over $10 million at 70 percent; among all American adults, 59 percent supported that. Thirty-seven percent of Republicans said they would vote for a candidate who supported a Medicare for all plan; 53 percent of all Americans said the same. Leaders like Mr. Sanders and Ms. Ocasio-Cortez argue that voters are rejecting longstanding economic assumptions because those assumptions haven’t yielded the promised results. “I think the line of trickle-down economics improving the lives of everybody doesn’t work when in the last 30 or 40 years, the lives of the middle class have become significantly more difficult at the same time as we’ve seen massive income and wealth inequality,” Mr. Sanders said. That sentiment is far from universal, and many Americans still support “trickle-down” policies. Conservatives and some moderates — including possible presidential candidates like Michael Bloomberg — view proposals like “Medicare for all” or a wealth tax as extreme, and it is not clear how those proposals would play in a presidential general election. But since Mr. Sanders and Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, who is also running for president, began speaking on national stages about ideas once confined to small circles, criticism of those ideas has ceased to dominate the political conversation, and voters are seeing practicality in ideas long considered idealistic. (Ms. Warren’s campaign did not make her available for an interview.) “I think people like Warren and Sanders deserve a lot of credit for advancing these ideas before they were cool,” said Tom Perriello, executive director for U.S. programs at the Open Society Foundations, who co-wrote an article last year about the increasing popularity of once-unthinkable policies. “It created a conversation people hadn’t heard before, and then had the option to look at it and say, ‘Wait, that sounds like a much better idea than what I’ve been hearing before.’” Follow Maggie Astor on Twitter: @MaggieAstor.    Supported by By Reuters JAKARTA — Even with Indonesia's current presidential election result still to be officially confirmed, attention is turning to the next race for the top job in 2024 with some rising political stars and well-connected figures in the frame. Sample vote counts by private pollsters from last week's poll show that incumbent President Joko Widodo is headed for a second and final term in office though the results are being disputed by his challenger, ex-general Prabowo Subianto. There are, however, a string of new leaders waiting in the wings for their chance including some who, like Widodo, cut their teeth running cities or provinces across the archipelago, and also the offspring of ex-leaders being groomed to take over. Still, a candidate needs at least 20 percent of seats in parliament or 25 percent of the popular vote to stand, meaning it is conceivable for this year's challenger Subianto, who is chairman of the Gerindra party, to run for a third attempt.  "We have a lot of potential leaders... The threshold should be lowered to give these people an open opportunity," said Arya Fernandes, a researcher at the Centre for Strategic and International Studies. Here are some of the possible contenders for the 2024 vote. Anies Baswedan, 49, is the governor of Jakarta. The former education minister, with backing from opposition parties and some hardline Islamist groups, defeated the popular ethnic-Chinese, Christian governor of the capital in a vote marred by religious tensions. Still, the Fulbright Scholar who comes from a family of moderate Muslim scholars is seen as appealing to younger voters and representing a more modern face of Islam. Sandiaga Uno, 49, was elected vice governor of Jakarta in 2017, but stood down to be the vice presidential running mate for Prabowo. His private equity fortune made to a large degree with investments in Indonesia's coal industry helped fund Prabowo and his campaign. Though a relative newcomer to politics, the campaign has allowed him to raise his profile across Indonesia and he proved a hit with millennial and female voters.   Ridwan Kamil, 47, is governor of Indonesia's most populous province West Java and an ally of Widodo. A trained architect, he was previously mayor of Bandung where he is credited with rebranding the city to encourage creativity and use of technology. He has successfully used social media to connect with voters and has more than 10 million followers on Instagram.  Puan Maharani, 45, is a minister for human development and cultural affairs. She has political pedigree as the daughter of former president Megawati Soekarnoputri and granddaughter of Indonesia's charismatic first leader, Sukarno. Her mother chairs the biggest party in parliament, the Indonesian Democratic Party of Struggle (PDI-P), which is in the ruling coalition. Agus Harimurti Yudhoyono, 40, is the eldest son of former president and Democratic Party chairman Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono. The Harvard-educated politician followed his father by having a military career and despite his inexperience ran in the Jakarta governor race in 2017 where he lost in the first round. The Democratic Party has also not fared so well this year. Other names being circulated by pollsters or the media include regional leaders such as Ganjar Pranowo, 50, the governor of Central Java, Tri Rismaharini, 57, mayor of Surabaya, and East Java governor Khofifah Indar Parawansa, 53. In eastern Indonesia, Nurdin Abdullah, 56, the South Sulawesi governor, is also seen as a contender. Deputy parliament speaker and vice chairman of the Gerindra party Fadli Zon, 47, is also seen as a possible candidate as a Prabowo loyalist.  Basuki Tjahaja Purnama, 52, the ex-governor of Jakarta, still has many supporters if he did try to get back into politics even with a blasphemy conviction for insulting the Koran. Billionaire businessman Erick Thohir, 48, who orchestrated last year's Asian Games and Widodo's 2019 presidential campaign, has also been mentioned though he has denied interest in a political career and up to now lacks governance experience.   (Reporting by Tabita Diela and Yerica Lai; Writing by Ed Davies; Editing by Christopher Cushing)

Supported by By Reuters JAKARTA — Even with Indonesia's current presidential election result still to be officially confirmed, attention is turning to the next race for the top job in 2024 with some rising political stars and well-connected figures in the frame. Sample vote counts by private pollsters from last week's poll show that incumbent President Joko Widodo is headed for a second and final term in office though the results are being disputed by his challenger, ex-general Prabowo Subianto. There are, however, a string of new leaders waiting in the wings for their chance including some who, like Widodo, cut their teeth running cities or provinces across the archipelago, and also the offspring of ex-leaders being groomed to take over. Still, a candidate needs at least 20 percent of seats in parliament or 25 percent of the popular vote to stand, meaning it is conceivable for this year's challenger Subianto, who is chairman of the Gerindra party, to run for a third attempt.  "We have a lot of potential leaders... The threshold should be lowered to give these people an open opportunity," said Arya Fernandes, a researcher at the Centre for Strategic and International Studies. Here are some of the possible contenders for the 2024 vote. Anies Baswedan, 49, is the governor of Jakarta. The former education minister, with backing from opposition parties and some hardline Islamist groups, defeated the popular ethnic-Chinese, Christian governor of the capital in a vote marred by religious tensions. Still, the Fulbright Scholar who comes from a family of moderate Muslim scholars is seen as appealing to younger voters and representing a more modern face of Islam. Sandiaga Uno, 49, was elected vice governor of Jakarta in 2017, but stood down to be the vice presidential running mate for Prabowo. His private equity fortune made to a large degree with investments in Indonesia's coal industry helped fund Prabowo and his campaign. Though a relative newcomer to politics, the campaign has allowed him to raise his profile across Indonesia and he proved a hit with millennial and female voters.   Ridwan Kamil, 47, is governor of Indonesia's most populous province West Java and an ally of Widodo. A trained architect, he was previously mayor of Bandung where he is credited with rebranding the city to encourage creativity and use of technology. He has successfully used social media to connect with voters and has more than 10 million followers on Instagram.  Puan Maharani, 45, is a minister for human development and cultural affairs. She has political pedigree as the daughter of former president Megawati Soekarnoputri and granddaughter of Indonesia's charismatic first leader, Sukarno. Her mother chairs the biggest party in parliament, the Indonesian Democratic Party of Struggle (PDI-P), which is in the ruling coalition. Agus Harimurti Yudhoyono, 40, is the eldest son of former president and Democratic Party chairman Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono. The Harvard-educated politician followed his father by having a military career and despite his inexperience ran in the Jakarta governor race in 2017 where he lost in the first round. The Democratic Party has also not fared so well this year. Other names being circulated by pollsters or the media include regional leaders such as Ganjar Pranowo, 50, the governor of Central Java, Tri Rismaharini, 57, mayor of Surabaya, and East Java governor Khofifah Indar Parawansa, 53. In eastern Indonesia, Nurdin Abdullah, 56, the South Sulawesi governor, is also seen as a contender. Deputy parliament speaker and vice chairman of the Gerindra party Fadli Zon, 47, is also seen as a possible candidate as a Prabowo loyalist.  Basuki Tjahaja Purnama, 52, the ex-governor of Jakarta, still has many supporters if he did try to get back into politics even with a blasphemy conviction for insulting the Koran. Billionaire businessman Erick Thohir, 48, who orchestrated last year's Asian Games and Widodo's 2019 presidential campaign, has also been mentioned though he has denied interest in a political career and up to now lacks governance experience.   (Reporting by Tabita Diela and Yerica Lai; Writing by Ed Davies; Editing by Christopher Cushing)Supported by By Matthew Rosenberg WASHINGTON — Aleksej Gubarev is a Russian technology entrepreneur who runs companies in Europe and the United States that provide cut-rate internet service. But he is best known for his appearance in 2016 in a dossier that purported to detail Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election — and the Trump campaign’s complicity. Mr. Gubarev’s companies, the dossier claimed, used “botnets and porn traffic to transmit viruses, plant bugs, steal data and conduct ‘altering operations’ against the Democratic Party leadership.” On Thursday, new evidence emerged that indicated that internet service providers owned by Mr. Gubarev appear to have been used to do just that: A report by a former F.B.I. cyberexpert unsealed in a federal court in Miami found evidence that suggests Russian agents used networks operated by Mr. Gubarev to start their hacking operation during the 2016 presidential campaign. [Read the report here.] His networks also appear to have been regularly used by cybercriminals and Russian agents to conduct other attacks, such as an assault on Ukraine’s power grid in 2015, the report found. Yet the report stops short of directly linking Mr. Gubarev or his executives to the hacking, as asserted in the dossier. As Anthony Ferrante, the report’s lead author and a former F.B.I. agent, noted in a deposition: “I have no evidence of them actually sitting behind a keyboard.” Mr. Gubarev has insisted that neither he nor his businesses knowingly took part in the Russian hacking. He backed up his denials by filing a defamation lawsuit against BuzzFeed, the first news organization to publish the dossier, which became public in January 2017. The report unsealed Thursday was commissioned by BuzzFeed to fend off Mr. Gubarev’s suit, which was dismissed in December when the court found BuzzFeed’s decision to publish protected under the law. Evan Fray-Witzer, a lawyer for Mr. Gubarev, said that hackers using a client’s servers was hardly unique for a web-hosting company, or any tech company. Mr. Gubarev should not be held responsible for the misuse of his network by others that he neither approved nor knew about, Mr. Fray-Witzer said. “You could say the same thing about Google’s infrastructure and Amazon’s infrastructure — and no one is accusing them of hacking anyone just because hackers used their infrastructure,” he said. The report was released after months of legal wrangling by Mr. Gubarev’s lawyers, who strenuously fought to keep it under wraps, arguing that it was one-sided and would unfairly tar their client. The New York Times, acting independently of BuzzFeed and Mr. Gubarev, asked the court in October to unseal all of the evidence in the case. For all of its details of Russia’s hacking, the report is unlikely to settle the questions that linger around the dossier more than two years after it became public. But for those who believe the president’s loyalties are with Moscow, the report’s suggestions of a link between Mr. Gubarev and Russian hacking is likely to spur new demands for renewed investigations, even as Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, appears to be wrapping up his investigation. The dossier is made up of a series of reports compiled in the summer and fall of 2016 by Christopher Steele, a former British spy who runs a firm that conducts investigations for businesses and other clients. The work was done at the behest of President Trump’s political rivals, a fact that Mr. Trump and his allies have seized on in an effort to undermine the Russia inquiry by falsely claiming that it began because of the dossier. Parts of the dossier have proved prescient. Its main assertion — that the Russian government was working to get Mr. Trump elected — was hardly an established fact when it was first laid out by Mr. Steele in June 2016. But it has since been backed up by the United States’ own intelligence agencies — and Mr. Mueller’s investigation. The dossier’s talk of Russian efforts to cultivate some people in Mr. Trump’s orbit was similarly unknown when first detailed in one of Mr. Steele’s reports, but it has proved broadly accurate as well. Other parts of the dossier remain unsubstantiated, or nearly impossible to verify, such as its most salacious charge: that the Russians have a video of Mr. Trump cavorting with prostitutes in a Moscow hotel in 2013. At least one accusation — that Michael D. Cohen, Mr. Trump’s former personal lawyer and fixer, met in 2016 with Russian officials in Prague — now looks false after Mr. Cohen, who has turned sharply against Mr. Trump, denied last month during congressional testimony ever visiting Prague. The report commissioned by BuzzFeed to investigate the dossier did not set out to prove any of those accusations. It was done by FTI Consulting, a Washington-based firm, and focused solely on the accusations against Mr. Gubarev. It relied largely on analyzing internet traffic and other clues, and on digging through public records to glean insight into Mr. Gubarev’s holding company, XBT, and its many affiliates, including Webzilla. Both XBT and Webzilla were named in the dossier as being used for the hacking. While the report found no direct evidence of a direct link to the Russian hackers, it did conclude that Mr. Gubarev’s web-hosting services are rife with lawlessness. His clients routinely pirate copyrighted material and spread malware, the report found, and his executives appear unconcerned with stopping them or helping authorities track them down. Mr. Gubarev’s “companies have provided gateways to the internet for cybercriminals and Russian state-sponsored actors to launch and control large scale malware campaigns over the past decade,” the report concluded. “Gubarev and other XBT executives do not appear to actively prevent cybercriminals from using their infrastructure.” The evidence cited by the report included the use of I.P. addresses — the numbered codes that differentiate individual internet connections — run by an XBT subsidiary, Root S.A., by Russian hackers from two groups tied to the country’s intelligence services, Fancy Bear and Cozy Bear. The investigators hired by BuzzFeed also found that at least one of the fake links used to trick John D. Podesta, the chairman of Hillary Clinton’s 2016 presidential campaign, into giving up his email password to hackers was traced back to an I.P. address run by Root S.A. The report also detailed evidence that it said suggested Mr. Gubarev’s companies were used in other cybercrimes traced to Russian hackers. One was a sophisticated Russian cyberfraud operation known as the Methbot scheme. It used bots — computer programs that pretend to be people — to steal hundreds of millions of dollars. During the three months the scheme was running in 2016, roughly three-quarters of the internet traffic flowing through two web-hosting companies owned by Mr. Gubarev — Servers.com and WZ Communications — was dedicated to the scheme, the report said. Mr. Fray-Witzer, the lawyer, said Mr. Gubarev’s companies did not make a habit of prying into the web traffic of its clients, and could not have known what its servers were being used for. But, he added, Servers.com and WZ Communications shut off internet access for those behind the Methbot scheme as soon as they found out about it, and saved all of the hard drives for any investigators who wanted to examine them — none have. Asked about the numerous lawsuits that have claimed that Mr. Gubarev’s companies were used to trade in copyrighted material, Mr. Fray-Witzer offered the same argument: Web-hosting companies are not typically held responsible for the traffic that flows through their servers, and Mr. Gubarev should not be held to a different standard. In any case, Mr. Fray-Witzer said, the dossier accused Mr. Gubarev “directly of having been involved in the hacking of the D.N.C.,” not of running networks used by thieves and criminals. “Because they couldn’t prove the allegations that they actually made about our client,” he continued, “they pivoted to say, ‘Well, your infrastructure was used from time to time to do bad things.’” Follow Matthew Rosenberg on Twitter: @AllMattNYT. Gabriel J.X. Dance contributed reporting from New York. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.   

Supported by By Matthew Rosenberg WASHINGTON — Aleksej Gubarev is a Russian technology entrepreneur who runs companies in Europe and the United States that provide cut-rate internet service. But he is best known for his appearance in 2016 in a dossier that purported to detail Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election — and the Trump campaign’s complicity. Mr. Gubarev’s companies, the dossier claimed, used “botnets and porn traffic to transmit viruses, plant bugs, steal data and conduct ‘altering operations’ against the Democratic Party leadership.” On Thursday, new evidence emerged that indicated that internet service providers owned by Mr. Gubarev appear to have been used to do just that: A report by a former F.B.I. cyberexpert unsealed in a federal court in Miami found evidence that suggests Russian agents used networks operated by Mr. Gubarev to start their hacking operation during the 2016 presidential campaign. [Read the report here.] His networks also appear to have been regularly used by cybercriminals and Russian agents to conduct other attacks, such as an assault on Ukraine’s power grid in 2015, the report found. Yet the report stops short of directly linking Mr. Gubarev or his executives to the hacking, as asserted in the dossier. As Anthony Ferrante, the report’s lead author and a former F.B.I. agent, noted in a deposition: “I have no evidence of them actually sitting behind a keyboard.” Mr. Gubarev has insisted that neither he nor his businesses knowingly took part in the Russian hacking. He backed up his denials by filing a defamation lawsuit against BuzzFeed, the first news organization to publish the dossier, which became public in January 2017. The report unsealed Thursday was commissioned by BuzzFeed to fend off Mr. Gubarev’s suit, which was dismissed in December when the court found BuzzFeed’s decision to publish protected under the law. Evan Fray-Witzer, a lawyer for Mr. Gubarev, said that hackers using a client’s servers was hardly unique for a web-hosting company, or any tech company. Mr. Gubarev should not be held responsible for the misuse of his network by others that he neither approved nor knew about, Mr. Fray-Witzer said. “You could say the same thing about Google’s infrastructure and Amazon’s infrastructure — and no one is accusing them of hacking anyone just because hackers used their infrastructure,” he said. The report was released after months of legal wrangling by Mr. Gubarev’s lawyers, who strenuously fought to keep it under wraps, arguing that it was one-sided and would unfairly tar their client. The New York Times, acting independently of BuzzFeed and Mr. Gubarev, asked the court in October to unseal all of the evidence in the case. For all of its details of Russia’s hacking, the report is unlikely to settle the questions that linger around the dossier more than two years after it became public. But for those who believe the president’s loyalties are with Moscow, the report’s suggestions of a link between Mr. Gubarev and Russian hacking is likely to spur new demands for renewed investigations, even as Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, appears to be wrapping up his investigation. The dossier is made up of a series of reports compiled in the summer and fall of 2016 by Christopher Steele, a former British spy who runs a firm that conducts investigations for businesses and other clients. The work was done at the behest of President Trump’s political rivals, a fact that Mr. Trump and his allies have seized on in an effort to undermine the Russia inquiry by falsely claiming that it began because of the dossier. Parts of the dossier have proved prescient. Its main assertion — that the Russian government was working to get Mr. Trump elected — was hardly an established fact when it was first laid out by Mr. Steele in June 2016. But it has since been backed up by the United States’ own intelligence agencies — and Mr. Mueller’s investigation. The dossier’s talk of Russian efforts to cultivate some people in Mr. Trump’s orbit was similarly unknown when first detailed in one of Mr. Steele’s reports, but it has proved broadly accurate as well. Other parts of the dossier remain unsubstantiated, or nearly impossible to verify, such as its most salacious charge: that the Russians have a video of Mr. Trump cavorting with prostitutes in a Moscow hotel in 2013. At least one accusation — that Michael D. Cohen, Mr. Trump’s former personal lawyer and fixer, met in 2016 with Russian officials in Prague — now looks false after Mr. Cohen, who has turned sharply against Mr. Trump, denied last month during congressional testimony ever visiting Prague. The report commissioned by BuzzFeed to investigate the dossier did not set out to prove any of those accusations. It was done by FTI Consulting, a Washington-based firm, and focused solely on the accusations against Mr. Gubarev. It relied largely on analyzing internet traffic and other clues, and on digging through public records to glean insight into Mr. Gubarev’s holding company, XBT, and its many affiliates, including Webzilla. Both XBT and Webzilla were named in the dossier as being used for the hacking. While the report found no direct evidence of a direct link to the Russian hackers, it did conclude that Mr. Gubarev’s web-hosting services are rife with lawlessness. His clients routinely pirate copyrighted material and spread malware, the report found, and his executives appear unconcerned with stopping them or helping authorities track them down. Mr. Gubarev’s “companies have provided gateways to the internet for cybercriminals and Russian state-sponsored actors to launch and control large scale malware campaigns over the past decade,” the report concluded. “Gubarev and other XBT executives do not appear to actively prevent cybercriminals from using their infrastructure.” The evidence cited by the report included the use of I.P. addresses — the numbered codes that differentiate individual internet connections — run by an XBT subsidiary, Root S.A., by Russian hackers from two groups tied to the country’s intelligence services, Fancy Bear and Cozy Bear. The investigators hired by BuzzFeed also found that at least one of the fake links used to trick John D. Podesta, the chairman of Hillary Clinton’s 2016 presidential campaign, into giving up his email password to hackers was traced back to an I.P. address run by Root S.A. The report also detailed evidence that it said suggested Mr. Gubarev’s companies were used in other cybercrimes traced to Russian hackers. One was a sophisticated Russian cyberfraud operation known as the Methbot scheme. It used bots — computer programs that pretend to be people — to steal hundreds of millions of dollars. During the three months the scheme was running in 2016, roughly three-quarters of the internet traffic flowing through two web-hosting companies owned by Mr. Gubarev — Servers.com and WZ Communications — was dedicated to the scheme, the report said. Mr. Fray-Witzer, the lawyer, said Mr. Gubarev’s companies did not make a habit of prying into the web traffic of its clients, and could not have known what its servers were being used for. But, he added, Servers.com and WZ Communications shut off internet access for those behind the Methbot scheme as soon as they found out about it, and saved all of the hard drives for any investigators who wanted to examine them — none have. Asked about the numerous lawsuits that have claimed that Mr. Gubarev’s companies were used to trade in copyrighted material, Mr. Fray-Witzer offered the same argument: Web-hosting companies are not typically held responsible for the traffic that flows through their servers, and Mr. Gubarev should not be held to a different standard. In any case, Mr. Fray-Witzer said, the dossier accused Mr. Gubarev “directly of having been involved in the hacking of the D.N.C.,” not of running networks used by thieves and criminals. “Because they couldn’t prove the allegations that they actually made about our client,” he continued, “they pivoted to say, ‘Well, your infrastructure was used from time to time to do bad things.’” Follow Matthew Rosenberg on Twitter: @AllMattNYT. Gabriel J.X. Dance contributed reporting from New York. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.   Supported by By Jeffery C. Mays [What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.] DES MOINES — He seemed at complete ease, shaking hands, posing for selfies and cracking tall guy jokes, as he laid out a plan for Democrats to take back the White House. Perhaps Bill de Blasio’s comfort level was aided by familiarity: This was believed to be his fourth trip to Iowa since he became mayor of New York City in 2014. It could have been the sparse crowd: Only about two dozen people braved blizzard-like conditions in Sioux City Saturday to attend the gathering organized by the Woodbury County Democrats, a traditional stop for presidential hopefuls. On Sunday, Mr. de Blasio was warmly received at the Asian & Latino Coalition PAC in Des Moines, where 40 people gathered and applauded when he talked about money being in the “wrong hands.” “When Democrats sound apologetic for who we are, people pick up on that right away,” Mr. de Blasio said to grunts of agreement. He spoke about New York City’s recent health care initiative for undocumented immigrants, paid sick-leave, universal prekindergarten and early childhood education — accomplishments he has said could be a model for the nation. There was no mention Saturday night of the difficulties he has had taming homelessness, repairing the city’s decrepit public housing or the fallout of the recent decision by Amazon to pull out of a plan to build a campus in Long Island City, Queens. Both Amazon and homelessness did come up during his meeting Sunday with the Asian & Latino Coalition PAC. The mayor said he failed to recognize the causes of homelessness early enough, and that Amazon pits cities who want good-paying jobs against each other. The same political action committee recently hosted Senator Kamala Harris, a Democrat from California, and Michael R. Bloomberg, the former mayor. The appearances gave Mr. de Blasio a chance to escape the criticism he has faced back home that he did not belong on the campaign trail. “If you look at the everyday discourse, you might think this is a country mired in division and that conservative forces are dominant. I think it’s quite the opposite,” Mr. de Blasio said on Saturday. “I think this is a country waiting to be unified.” The question of whether Mr. de Blasio would try to unify the country by running for president or just continue to talk about it remained unanswered. The mayor gave his stock response of late that he has “not ruled out a run for president, obviously.” Even if he hasn’t declared, Mr. de Blasio was acting and was treated like a candidate. He was the third Democrat who has announced or is mulling a presidential bid to be hosted by the Woodbury County Democrats in the previous 48 hours. The former governor of Colorado, John Hickenlooper, held court in a nearby coffee shop earlier in the day, and Julián Castro, the former housing secretary, attended a fund-raiser at a private home the day before. “Why else is the mayor of New York in Iowa?” asked Gary Lipschutz, 76, who has participated in the Iowa caucuses since 1966, and attended events by all three of Sioux City’s recent political visitors. “Iowa and the other early primary states don’t decide who is going to be president. We decide who is not going to be president.” Mr. de Blasio called the decision “personal” and said in an interview that he would need to speak with his family. At both stops, he said Democrats need to focus on improving the lives of “working people” who are being paid less money. That message, he said, would bring out voters who stayed home during the 2016 presidential election, and bring the party back to its earlier roots. Being critical of President Trump is not an election strategy that works, the mayor added, criticizing his former boss and former Democratic nominee for president, Hillary Clinton. “We’re not going to win by talking about Donald Trump. I have deep respect for our previous nominee. I know her very well, but I think that was one of the mistakes,” Mr. de Blasio said. As part of his push to spread this message, the mayor said he would be traveling to early primary states such as Iowa. Mr. de Blasio canceled a recent trip to New Hampshire after the death of a New York City police detective, but he has visited Harvard University and the United States Conference of Mayors in Washington in recent weeks. More trips could be on tap, he said. On Sunday, Mr. de Blasio met in Des Moines with the mayor, Frank Cownie and the former Iowa governor and United States agriculture secretary, Tom Vilsack. A meeting with J.D. Scholten, who almost defeated Representative Steve King, the Iowa Republican who was recently stripped of two committee assignments after he questioned why white supremacy is considered offensive, was scuttled because of the weather. The storm also forced Mr. de Blasio into a motel overnight after a highway was closed on his trip from Sioux City to Des Moines. Mr. de Blasio said the rules of the game have changed and he was not concerned that he had not assembled the typical machinery of consultants and on-the-ground personnel needed for a presidential campaign. No one thought he would be mayor when he first started running, he said. Either way, Mr. de Blasio was welcome in Iowa in spite of his indecision. “Our group is very progressive and we like that progressive message he brings,” said Mitch Henry, co-founder of the Asian & Latino Coalition. In Sioux City, the mayor was asked questions pertinent to a presidential campaign, such as how he would approach foreign policy, his strategy to beat Mr. Trump and how he would handle appointing less conservative judges. Natalie Hattorf, 28, and her mother Jaime, 55, said they felt Mr. de Blasio showed empathy after they described their difficulty in getting marijuana products for a sick uncle. Mr. de Blasio has been criticized for being a step behind other progressive Democrats on legalizing marijuana, endorsing it recently after it became clear that New York State seemed poised to do so. The mayor responded to the mother and daughter about how his marijuana plan for the city aims to keep corporate producers of the drug from dominating the industry. “If he’s not a front-runner,” said the elder Ms. Hattorf, “he could easily be someone’s running mate.” But there was also the cold acknowledgment from some in attendance that they did not know much about Mr. de Blasio and were wary of his chances to even compete for the presidency. “I’ll be honest, I’m not 100 percent sure what he’s doing here,” Vladimir Landman, 36, a software developer who grew up in Brooklyn but now lives in Sioux City, said after the mayor’s speech. Unlike some of the mayor’s colleagues in New York City, Mr. Landman believes Mr. de Blasio is qualified to be president, but said the Democratic field might be too deep this time around for the mayor to make an impact. “I don’t know how far he’d get,” Mr. Landman said. Follow Jeffery C. Mays on Twitter: @JeffCMays     

Supported by By Jeffery C. Mays [What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.] DES MOINES — He seemed at complete ease, shaking hands, posing for selfies and cracking tall guy jokes, as he laid out a plan for Democrats to take back the White House. Perhaps Bill de Blasio’s comfort level was aided by familiarity: This was believed to be his fourth trip to Iowa since he became mayor of New York City in 2014. It could have been the sparse crowd: Only about two dozen people braved blizzard-like conditions in Sioux City Saturday to attend the gathering organized by the Woodbury County Democrats, a traditional stop for presidential hopefuls. On Sunday, Mr. de Blasio was warmly received at the Asian & Latino Coalition PAC in Des Moines, where 40 people gathered and applauded when he talked about money being in the “wrong hands.” “When Democrats sound apologetic for who we are, people pick up on that right away,” Mr. de Blasio said to grunts of agreement. He spoke about New York City’s recent health care initiative for undocumented immigrants, paid sick-leave, universal prekindergarten and early childhood education — accomplishments he has said could be a model for the nation. There was no mention Saturday night of the difficulties he has had taming homelessness, repairing the city’s decrepit public housing or the fallout of the recent decision by Amazon to pull out of a plan to build a campus in Long Island City, Queens. Both Amazon and homelessness did come up during his meeting Sunday with the Asian & Latino Coalition PAC. The mayor said he failed to recognize the causes of homelessness early enough, and that Amazon pits cities who want good-paying jobs against each other. The same political action committee recently hosted Senator Kamala Harris, a Democrat from California, and Michael R. Bloomberg, the former mayor. The appearances gave Mr. de Blasio a chance to escape the criticism he has faced back home that he did not belong on the campaign trail. “If you look at the everyday discourse, you might think this is a country mired in division and that conservative forces are dominant. I think it’s quite the opposite,” Mr. de Blasio said on Saturday. “I think this is a country waiting to be unified.” The question of whether Mr. de Blasio would try to unify the country by running for president or just continue to talk about it remained unanswered. The mayor gave his stock response of late that he has “not ruled out a run for president, obviously.” Even if he hasn’t declared, Mr. de Blasio was acting and was treated like a candidate. He was the third Democrat who has announced or is mulling a presidential bid to be hosted by the Woodbury County Democrats in the previous 48 hours. The former governor of Colorado, John Hickenlooper, held court in a nearby coffee shop earlier in the day, and Julián Castro, the former housing secretary, attended a fund-raiser at a private home the day before. “Why else is the mayor of New York in Iowa?” asked Gary Lipschutz, 76, who has participated in the Iowa caucuses since 1966, and attended events by all three of Sioux City’s recent political visitors. “Iowa and the other early primary states don’t decide who is going to be president. We decide who is not going to be president.” Mr. de Blasio called the decision “personal” and said in an interview that he would need to speak with his family. At both stops, he said Democrats need to focus on improving the lives of “working people” who are being paid less money. That message, he said, would bring out voters who stayed home during the 2016 presidential election, and bring the party back to its earlier roots. Being critical of President Trump is not an election strategy that works, the mayor added, criticizing his former boss and former Democratic nominee for president, Hillary Clinton. “We’re not going to win by talking about Donald Trump. I have deep respect for our previous nominee. I know her very well, but I think that was one of the mistakes,” Mr. de Blasio said. As part of his push to spread this message, the mayor said he would be traveling to early primary states such as Iowa. Mr. de Blasio canceled a recent trip to New Hampshire after the death of a New York City police detective, but he has visited Harvard University and the United States Conference of Mayors in Washington in recent weeks. More trips could be on tap, he said. On Sunday, Mr. de Blasio met in Des Moines with the mayor, Frank Cownie and the former Iowa governor and United States agriculture secretary, Tom Vilsack. A meeting with J.D. Scholten, who almost defeated Representative Steve King, the Iowa Republican who was recently stripped of two committee assignments after he questioned why white supremacy is considered offensive, was scuttled because of the weather. The storm also forced Mr. de Blasio into a motel overnight after a highway was closed on his trip from Sioux City to Des Moines. Mr. de Blasio said the rules of the game have changed and he was not concerned that he had not assembled the typical machinery of consultants and on-the-ground personnel needed for a presidential campaign. No one thought he would be mayor when he first started running, he said. Either way, Mr. de Blasio was welcome in Iowa in spite of his indecision. “Our group is very progressive and we like that progressive message he brings,” said Mitch Henry, co-founder of the Asian & Latino Coalition. In Sioux City, the mayor was asked questions pertinent to a presidential campaign, such as how he would approach foreign policy, his strategy to beat Mr. Trump and how he would handle appointing less conservative judges. Natalie Hattorf, 28, and her mother Jaime, 55, said they felt Mr. de Blasio showed empathy after they described their difficulty in getting marijuana products for a sick uncle. Mr. de Blasio has been criticized for being a step behind other progressive Democrats on legalizing marijuana, endorsing it recently after it became clear that New York State seemed poised to do so. The mayor responded to the mother and daughter about how his marijuana plan for the city aims to keep corporate producers of the drug from dominating the industry. “If he’s not a front-runner,” said the elder Ms. Hattorf, “he could easily be someone’s running mate.” But there was also the cold acknowledgment from some in attendance that they did not know much about Mr. de Blasio and were wary of his chances to even compete for the presidency. “I’ll be honest, I’m not 100 percent sure what he’s doing here,” Vladimir Landman, 36, a software developer who grew up in Brooklyn but now lives in Sioux City, said after the mayor’s speech. Unlike some of the mayor’s colleagues in New York City, Mr. Landman believes Mr. de Blasio is qualified to be president, but said the Democratic field might be too deep this time around for the mayor to make an impact. “I don’t know how far he’d get,” Mr. Landman said. Follow Jeffery C. Mays on Twitter: @JeffCMays     Supported by By Shane Goldmacher Senator Kirsten Gillibrand of New York officially joined the 2020 presidential race on Sunday, declaring in an announcement video that America needs “a leader who makes big, bold, brave choices,” and that she is that leader. There was little drama about whether Ms. Gillibrand would officially enter the presidential race ever since she had announced she was exploring a run in January on “The Late Show With Stephen Colbert.” She has spent the last two months traveling the country and raising money, in Iowa, New Hampshire, South Carolina, California and Texas. The video announcement kicks off a busy week for Ms. Gillibrand that will culminate in what her campaign is billing as her first speech as a presidential candidate next Sunday in Manhattan, which she will deliver, pointedly, outside one of President Trump’s properties. While some candidates have shied from making Mr. Trump a centerpiece of their campaigns, the location of the speech signals that Ms. Gillibrand has no such hesitation. She has voted against Mr. Trump’s nominees at a faster clip than any other senator — a talking point for her on the campaign trail. In her announcement video, Ms. Gillibrand uses the lyrics of “The Star-Spangled Banner” as a jumping-off point to her campaign. “It asks, ‘Will brave win?’” she says of the national anthem. “Well, it hasn’t always. And it isn’t right now.” As Ms. Gillibrand narrates, the imagery of the video turns from paeans to patriotism to clips of Mr. Trump and the violence spurred by white nationalists in Charlottesville, Va. Ms. Gillibrand lists some of her top policy priorities in the video, including universal health care, paid family leave for all, ending gun violence, a Green New Deal and getting “money out of politics.” Ms. Gillibrand has put her advocacy for women at both the center of her political career and her coming presidential campaign. Ms. Gillibrand has gained little traction in a crowded Democratic race with more than 15 candidates, including six senators (four of whom are women). Polls show her drawing around 1 percent support. Former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. is the biggest name among expected candidates not to enter yet, though he has been telling allies he is likely to run. One advantage for Ms. Gillibrand is that she stashed away more than $10 million in her uncompetitive 2018 re-election that can now be spent on her presidential run. Ms. Gillibrand has sold herself as a rare candidate able to win in Republican strongholds, citing her unexpected win in her first congressional race, in a conservative district in upstate New York in 2006. But that story line is complicated by the fact that at the time Ms. Gillibrand held drastically different positions on guns and immigration than she does today. On Monday, in a big chance to appear before a national audience, Ms. Gillibrand will travel to Michigan for MSNBC’s first town hall of the presidential season. She will then return to Iowa for the third time this year, and make her first appearance in Nevada on Thursday. She will also be featured on Desus and Mero’s new Showtime program after the Bronx-born comics spent a day with her last month in Troy, N.Y., where her campaign is headquartered. Next Sunday she will deliver her kickoff speech in front of the Trump International Hotel in Manhattan.    

Supported by By Shane Goldmacher Senator Kirsten Gillibrand of New York officially joined the 2020 presidential race on Sunday, declaring in an announcement video that America needs “a leader who makes big, bold, brave choices,” and that she is that leader. There was little drama about whether Ms. Gillibrand would officially enter the presidential race ever since she had announced she was exploring a run in January on “The Late Show With Stephen Colbert.” She has spent the last two months traveling the country and raising money, in Iowa, New Hampshire, South Carolina, California and Texas. The video announcement kicks off a busy week for Ms. Gillibrand that will culminate in what her campaign is billing as her first speech as a presidential candidate next Sunday in Manhattan, which she will deliver, pointedly, outside one of President Trump’s properties. While some candidates have shied from making Mr. Trump a centerpiece of their campaigns, the location of the speech signals that Ms. Gillibrand has no such hesitation. She has voted against Mr. Trump’s nominees at a faster clip than any other senator — a talking point for her on the campaign trail. In her announcement video, Ms. Gillibrand uses the lyrics of “The Star-Spangled Banner” as a jumping-off point to her campaign. “It asks, ‘Will brave win?’” she says of the national anthem. “Well, it hasn’t always. And it isn’t right now.” As Ms. Gillibrand narrates, the imagery of the video turns from paeans to patriotism to clips of Mr. Trump and the violence spurred by white nationalists in Charlottesville, Va. Ms. Gillibrand lists some of her top policy priorities in the video, including universal health care, paid family leave for all, ending gun violence, a Green New Deal and getting “money out of politics.” Ms. Gillibrand has put her advocacy for women at both the center of her political career and her coming presidential campaign. Ms. Gillibrand has gained little traction in a crowded Democratic race with more than 15 candidates, including six senators (four of whom are women). Polls show her drawing around 1 percent support. Former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. is the biggest name among expected candidates not to enter yet, though he has been telling allies he is likely to run. One advantage for Ms. Gillibrand is that she stashed away more than $10 million in her uncompetitive 2018 re-election that can now be spent on her presidential run. Ms. Gillibrand has sold herself as a rare candidate able to win in Republican strongholds, citing her unexpected win in her first congressional race, in a conservative district in upstate New York in 2006. But that story line is complicated by the fact that at the time Ms. Gillibrand held drastically different positions on guns and immigration than she does today. On Monday, in a big chance to appear before a national audience, Ms. Gillibrand will travel to Michigan for MSNBC’s first town hall of the presidential season. She will then return to Iowa for the third time this year, and make her first appearance in Nevada on Thursday. She will also be featured on Desus and Mero’s new Showtime program after the Bronx-born comics spent a day with her last month in Troy, N.Y., where her campaign is headquartered. Next Sunday she will deliver her kickoff speech in front of the Trump International Hotel in Manhattan.    Supported by By The Associated Press NEW YORK — The National Enquirer is being sold to the former head of the airport newsstand company Hudson News following a rocky year in which the tabloid was accused of burying stories that could have hurt Donald Trump's 2016 presidential campaign. Tabloid owner American Media said Thursday it plans to sell the supermarket weekly to James Cohen. Financial terms were not immediately disclosed for the deal, which included two other American Media tabloids, the Globe and the National Examiner. American Media said last week that it wanted to get out of the tabloid business to focus on its other operations that include its teen brand and broadcast platforms. Federal prosecutors in Manhattan agreed last year not to prosecute American Media in exchange for the company's cooperation in a campaign finance investigation. That probe eventually led to a three-year prison term for Trump's former personal lawyer Michael Cohen for campaign violations among other charges. American Media admitted it had paid $150,000 to keep former Playboy model Karen McDougal quiet about an alleged affair with Trump to help his campaign. Trump has denied an affair. The sale would end a longtime relationship between the National Enquirer and Trump. Under the aegis of American Media CEO David Pecker, the tabloid has for years buried potentially embarrassing stories about Trump and other favored celebrities by buying the rights to them and never publishing in a practice called "catch-and-kill." The Associated Press reported last year that Pecker kept a safe in the Enquirer's office that held documents on buried stories, including those involving Trump. Whether James Cohen has any allegiances to Trump is not clear. While he was a registered Republican as late as 2017, according to Nexis records, he has given to both Republicans and Democrats. That included $17,300 in 2016 to an arm of the Democratic National Committee and $2,500 to the Republican National Committee in 2012. News of the sale comes two months after Amazon chief Jeff Bezos publicly accused the National Enquirer of trying to blackmail him by threatening to publish explicit photos of him. An American Media attorney denied the charge, but it threatened potentially big legal costs by upending American Media's non-prosecution agreement in the hush money case. The AP reported that federal prosecutors were looking into whether the publisher violated terms of the deal, which included a promise not to break any laws in the future. The Bezos accusation comes at a difficult time for American Media. It has financed several recent acquisitions with borrowed money and has been struggling under a heavy debt load. American Media said the Cohen deal would help reduce the amount it needs to pay back, leaving it with $355 million in debt. The Washington Post, which earlier reported the sale, said Cohen will pay $100 million in the deal. Cohen's family had run a magazine and newspaper distributor for decades before his father branched into newsstand stores in 1980s, starting with a single one at LaGuardia Airport. Before he died in 2012, the father had opened more than 600 stores. After the death, James Cohen's niece alleged her uncle had cheated her out of her inheritance. She lost the case. The family sold a majority stake in the chain about a decade ago. The business is now owned by Dufry, an operator of duty-free stores in which James Cohen is a major shareholder. Cohen still owns a magazine and newspaper distributor called Hudson News Distributors. In addition, he runs a real estate developer and a publishing company, which owns Gallerie, an art and design magazine. Cohen has reportedly been involved in American Media deals before. The New York Times reports that, in 2011, Cohen invested in the company's American edition of OK!, a British tabloid.

Supported by By The Associated Press NEW YORK — The National Enquirer is being sold to the former head of the airport newsstand company Hudson News following a rocky year in which the tabloid was accused of burying stories that could have hurt Donald Trump's 2016 presidential campaign. Tabloid owner American Media said Thursday it plans to sell the supermarket weekly to James Cohen. Financial terms were not immediately disclosed for the deal, which included two other American Media tabloids, the Globe and the National Examiner. American Media said last week that it wanted to get out of the tabloid business to focus on its other operations that include its teen brand and broadcast platforms. Federal prosecutors in Manhattan agreed last year not to prosecute American Media in exchange for the company's cooperation in a campaign finance investigation. That probe eventually led to a three-year prison term for Trump's former personal lawyer Michael Cohen for campaign violations among other charges. American Media admitted it had paid $150,000 to keep former Playboy model Karen McDougal quiet about an alleged affair with Trump to help his campaign. Trump has denied an affair. The sale would end a longtime relationship between the National Enquirer and Trump. Under the aegis of American Media CEO David Pecker, the tabloid has for years buried potentially embarrassing stories about Trump and other favored celebrities by buying the rights to them and never publishing in a practice called "catch-and-kill." The Associated Press reported last year that Pecker kept a safe in the Enquirer's office that held documents on buried stories, including those involving Trump. Whether James Cohen has any allegiances to Trump is not clear. While he was a registered Republican as late as 2017, according to Nexis records, he has given to both Republicans and Democrats. That included $17,300 in 2016 to an arm of the Democratic National Committee and $2,500 to the Republican National Committee in 2012. News of the sale comes two months after Amazon chief Jeff Bezos publicly accused the National Enquirer of trying to blackmail him by threatening to publish explicit photos of him. An American Media attorney denied the charge, but it threatened potentially big legal costs by upending American Media's non-prosecution agreement in the hush money case. The AP reported that federal prosecutors were looking into whether the publisher violated terms of the deal, which included a promise not to break any laws in the future. The Bezos accusation comes at a difficult time for American Media. It has financed several recent acquisitions with borrowed money and has been struggling under a heavy debt load. American Media said the Cohen deal would help reduce the amount it needs to pay back, leaving it with $355 million in debt. The Washington Post, which earlier reported the sale, said Cohen will pay $100 million in the deal. Cohen's family had run a magazine and newspaper distributor for decades before his father branched into newsstand stores in 1980s, starting with a single one at LaGuardia Airport. Before he died in 2012, the father had opened more than 600 stores. After the death, James Cohen's niece alleged her uncle had cheated her out of her inheritance. She lost the case. The family sold a majority stake in the chain about a decade ago. The business is now owned by Dufry, an operator of duty-free stores in which James Cohen is a major shareholder. Cohen still owns a magazine and newspaper distributor called Hudson News Distributors. In addition, he runs a real estate developer and a publishing company, which owns Gallerie, an art and design magazine. Cohen has reportedly been involved in American Media deals before. The New York Times reports that, in 2011, Cohen invested in the company's American edition of OK!, a British tabloid.Supported by By Alexander Burns Pete Buttigieg, the 37-year-old mayor of South Bend, Ind., announced on Wednesday that he was entering the Democratic presidential primary, embarking on a long-shot campaign that may test the appeal of a youthful, Midwestern profile over more traditional qualifications for the presidency. In an email to potential supporters, Mr. Buttigieg (he pronounces it BOOT-edge-edge) said he was forming an exploratory committee and cast himself as a candidate of the future, stressing his generational identity and calling for policies “untethered to the politics of the past” on issues like climate and economic opportunity. “What will America look like in 2054, when I reach the age of the current president?” Mr. Buttigieg said. “How will we look back on 2020?” [Follow the Democratic presidential field with our new candidate tracker] He also released an introductory video. A veteran of the war in Afghanistan, Mr. Buttigieg was a consultant at McKinsey before entering politics. It is unclear whether a municipal executive who oversees a city of about 100,000 people can be a viable candidate for the Democratic presidential nomination. While several other current or former mayors are considering campaigns, they all hail from iconic American cities like Los Angeles, New Orleans and New York, and have records of managing sprawling bureaucracies or navigating major crises. Mr. Buttigieg has a far more modest record to draw upon. Mr. Buttigieg began to draw national notice in the aftermath of the 2016 presidential election, delivering an essay, “A Letter from Flyover Country,” that counseled Democrats on how to recover from their defeats that year. Mr. Buttigieg ran unsuccessfully to chair the Democratic National Committee, withdrawing before the vote in the winter of 2017. He has traveled the country since then campaigning for fellow Democrats, drawing largely favorable media coverage and making little secret of his interest in higher office — and perhaps the highest office. “The Democratic Party matters more than ever, now that a hostile takeover of the Republican Party has brought to power a thin-skinned authoritarian who is not liberal, nor conservative, nor moderate,” Mr. Buttigieg wrote in his post-election essay, urging: “We need to be ready to put forward a better way.” Mr. Buttigieg, who is gay, also chided Democrats, after the 2016 election, for being overly focused on the presidency, at the expense of competing for important state and local offices. In a political irony, Mr. Buttigieg’s announcement on Wednesday reflects a similar calculus: he has been regarded as a potentially strong candidate for the governorship of Indiana, which is also on the ballot in 2020, but has opted for an underdog presidential campaign instead.   

Supported by By Alexander Burns Pete Buttigieg, the 37-year-old mayor of South Bend, Ind., announced on Wednesday that he was entering the Democratic presidential primary, embarking on a long-shot campaign that may test the appeal of a youthful, Midwestern profile over more traditional qualifications for the presidency. In an email to potential supporters, Mr. Buttigieg (he pronounces it BOOT-edge-edge) said he was forming an exploratory committee and cast himself as a candidate of the future, stressing his generational identity and calling for policies “untethered to the politics of the past” on issues like climate and economic opportunity. “What will America look like in 2054, when I reach the age of the current president?” Mr. Buttigieg said. “How will we look back on 2020?” [Follow the Democratic presidential field with our new candidate tracker] He also released an introductory video. A veteran of the war in Afghanistan, Mr. Buttigieg was a consultant at McKinsey before entering politics. It is unclear whether a municipal executive who oversees a city of about 100,000 people can be a viable candidate for the Democratic presidential nomination. While several other current or former mayors are considering campaigns, they all hail from iconic American cities like Los Angeles, New Orleans and New York, and have records of managing sprawling bureaucracies or navigating major crises. Mr. Buttigieg has a far more modest record to draw upon. Mr. Buttigieg began to draw national notice in the aftermath of the 2016 presidential election, delivering an essay, “A Letter from Flyover Country,” that counseled Democrats on how to recover from their defeats that year. Mr. Buttigieg ran unsuccessfully to chair the Democratic National Committee, withdrawing before the vote in the winter of 2017. He has traveled the country since then campaigning for fellow Democrats, drawing largely favorable media coverage and making little secret of his interest in higher office — and perhaps the highest office. “The Democratic Party matters more than ever, now that a hostile takeover of the Republican Party has brought to power a thin-skinned authoritarian who is not liberal, nor conservative, nor moderate,” Mr. Buttigieg wrote in his post-election essay, urging: “We need to be ready to put forward a better way.” Mr. Buttigieg, who is gay, also chided Democrats, after the 2016 election, for being overly focused on the presidency, at the expense of competing for important state and local offices. In a political irony, Mr. Buttigieg’s announcement on Wednesday reflects a similar calculus: he has been regarded as a potentially strong candidate for the governorship of Indiana, which is also on the ballot in 2020, but has opted for an underdog presidential campaign instead.   Supported by By Maggie Astor and Astead W. Herndon The new year has begun, and so has the nomination process for next year’s presidential election. But what do candidates actually do at this point, when the Iowa caucuses are still 13 months away? Democrats like Senator Elizabeth Warren, who just entered the race and plans to campaign in Iowa this weekend, will move quickly to try to build grass-roots support and raise money: two prerequisites for any candidates hoping to break out of what is likely to be a congested pack of contenders and position themselves well for big moments like the first Democratic candidates’ debate this June. [Read about Ms. Warren’s entry to the race and Iowa trip.] The Times talked to presidential campaign veterans, operatives and candidate surrogates about what the Democratic contenders will focus on in these early months. Few would offer predictions on which candidates would be successful, but they identified priorities that are critical in order to emerge as the party’s standard-bearer in 2020. Like it or not, the first focus of a new presidential campaign tends to be money. So-called exploratory committees, like the one Ms. Warren created Monday, are a vehicle to raise it. Given that more than a dozen Democrats may jump into the 2020 race, candidates who don’t establish themselves as potential front-runners in the next few months can get drowned out, and raising a lot of money early is one way to show a candidacy is viable. “Successful fund-raising is one of the messages that you want to have available to you as a candidate in Iowa, because it’s an indicator of the ability to sustain a campaign as long as is necessary,” said Jerry Crawford, who has led several Democrats’ Iowa operations. [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] The exact timing of Ms. Warren’s announcement — Dec. 31 — is significant. It means that in a few weeks, she will have to report her fund-raising totals for the fourth quarter of 2018, which will reveal how much she received on Day 1 in small-donor contributions — a key benchmark for popularity for Democrats in the nominating race. Like Ms. Warren, candidates often announce their campaigns at the end or the beginning of a quarter, and the choice is strategic: If you announce at the end of a quarter and raise a lot of money very quickly, you can report an impressive total right away and help cement yourself as a serious candidate. If you announce near the beginning of a quarter, you give yourself almost three months to build a respectable total before you have to disclose it. Another benefit of a full calendar year of campaigning is that it provides candidates with ample opportunity to test, refine or popularize new messages. Some Democrats already have signature taglines: Ms. Warren’s “Nevertheless, we persist,” or the Ohio Senator Sherrod Brown’s “the dignity of work.” Other candidates will be less decided and may try different messages to see what works. Laura Belin, a close Iowa caucus observer and author on the Bleeding Heartland blog, said it was important for candidates to make residents feel as if they are being courted and their concerns are being heard. This could mean tailoring a national message for a local audience, or being responsive to a particular moment that resonates with audiences. “With a field like this, I think there will be a lot of late deciders,” Ms. Belin said. “You can’t predict other events: Some people might stumble along the way. But it’s important to really find your message and appeal to people.” “We joke about how Iowa Democrats are like, ‘I can’t decide because I’ve only met this candidate twice,’ but there’s some truth to that and I feel like that myself. I think highly of a lot of people who are going to run,” she added. Repeated trips to Iowa can allow long-shot candidates to become better known among voters there, but top-tier candidates can also benefit from a sharpened message. Ms. Warren, for example, did not travel to Iowa before making her campaign announcement and will have to introduce herself anew to voters in America’s heartland. “She has a reputation of having a tremendous sense of humor, for example, but I don’t think that people in Iowa have seen that, and they need to,” Mr. Crawford said. “She needs to develop a sense of what Iowa is, what the people care about and are concerned about. I think she could do herself well to do some of those quieter conversations, sit-downs with Iowans on her first couple of trips here,” rather than big rallies. It takes a lot of people to get to the White House, and there are only so many who have experience running successful presidential campaigns. Nobody wants to start a campaign only to find that the best operatives are already committed to rival candidates. Especially in Iowa, where the caucuses demand intense on-the-ground mobilization, campaigns need a slew of organizers. John Delaney, a departing congressman from Maryland who has been running for the Democratic nomination since 2017, has about 20 paid staff members in Iowa and said he expected that to increase to 25, spread across eight field offices, by the end of January. He also has three staff members in New Hampshire and 15 to 20 at his new campaign headquarters in Maryland. Ms. Warren will undoubtedly be spending a lot of her time in the coming weeks building a staff at least that extensive, as will any other candidate who decides to enter the race early. Candidates must also use the coming year to introduce and differentiate themselves on policy grounds, experts said. Retail politics and interpersonal relationships can generate buzz, but in a crowded field, substance will count for just as much as style. Some candidates have already released baseline plans around issues such as tax policy or housing affordability, but 2019 is a time for details. “In a crowded field, what will be important is the clarity of your vision and your pathway that you show people,” Mr. Delaney said in an interview. “ I think what will differentiate the candidates is the person who can really convince people that they should have faith that my leadership can actually make this happen.” On a primary debate stage and in rooms with voters, a policy vision gives candidates an air of seriousness. Politically, it can also help a candidate shore up support among voters in more skeptical demographic groups. Ms. Warren, for example, drew praise for her focus on housing affordability, which she targeted at black voters, a key constituency in the Democratic primary. Other Democrats said they were looking to candidates like Senator Kamala Harris of California or Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey, to see if their policies will tap into more populist, anti-Wall Street themes. “Beyond Trump, every Democratic candidate will need to prove that they have a policy vision to address the deep inequalities of power and opportunity in America,” said Heather McGhee, the former president of Demos, the progressive political group. She said Ms. Warren had, to this point, led the pack on progressive policy. “Elizabeth Warren is the Democrat who has released the most comprehensive ideas about restructuring the corporate sector to reduce inequality,” she said. Every candidate has some sort of weakness or liability he or she needs to address, and those who enter the race early, like Ms. Warren, will want to try to get out ahead of it. Ms. Warren’s biggest liability, at this point, may be the DNA test she took in an effort to prove her claims of Native American ancestry. Her decision to release the test results angered many Native Americans, as well as progressive Democrats in her base, and some of her own advisers believe she needs a plan to repair the damage. So far, she has refused to apologize publicly, and she shrugged off a reporter’s question this week about the DNA test by saying she had “put it all out there” and people could see the information for themselves. Mr. Crawford of Iowa said, “If they’ve got challenging issues, like that one is for Senator Warren, I think first of all they need to be prepared to discuss it.” “They need to be very straightforward about it,” he added. Virtually all of the expected Democratic candidates have some issue, small or large, that they will have to confront if they run. For Joseph R. Biden Jr., it could be his actions during the Anita Hill hearings; for Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, her role in pushing Al Franken to resign from the Senate in response to sexual misconduct allegations; for Mr. Booker, his ties to Wall Street; for Ms. Harris, elements of her prosecutorial record in California. The coming weeks, before the campaign really gets underway, will be a good time to identify and even address those potential liabilities. Shane Goldmacher contributed reporting.   

Supported by By Maggie Astor and Astead W. Herndon The new year has begun, and so has the nomination process for next year’s presidential election. But what do candidates actually do at this point, when the Iowa caucuses are still 13 months away? Democrats like Senator Elizabeth Warren, who just entered the race and plans to campaign in Iowa this weekend, will move quickly to try to build grass-roots support and raise money: two prerequisites for any candidates hoping to break out of what is likely to be a congested pack of contenders and position themselves well for big moments like the first Democratic candidates’ debate this June. [Read about Ms. Warren’s entry to the race and Iowa trip.] The Times talked to presidential campaign veterans, operatives and candidate surrogates about what the Democratic contenders will focus on in these early months. Few would offer predictions on which candidates would be successful, but they identified priorities that are critical in order to emerge as the party’s standard-bearer in 2020. Like it or not, the first focus of a new presidential campaign tends to be money. So-called exploratory committees, like the one Ms. Warren created Monday, are a vehicle to raise it. Given that more than a dozen Democrats may jump into the 2020 race, candidates who don’t establish themselves as potential front-runners in the next few months can get drowned out, and raising a lot of money early is one way to show a candidacy is viable. “Successful fund-raising is one of the messages that you want to have available to you as a candidate in Iowa, because it’s an indicator of the ability to sustain a campaign as long as is necessary,” said Jerry Crawford, who has led several Democrats’ Iowa operations. [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] The exact timing of Ms. Warren’s announcement — Dec. 31 — is significant. It means that in a few weeks, she will have to report her fund-raising totals for the fourth quarter of 2018, which will reveal how much she received on Day 1 in small-donor contributions — a key benchmark for popularity for Democrats in the nominating race. Like Ms. Warren, candidates often announce their campaigns at the end or the beginning of a quarter, and the choice is strategic: If you announce at the end of a quarter and raise a lot of money very quickly, you can report an impressive total right away and help cement yourself as a serious candidate. If you announce near the beginning of a quarter, you give yourself almost three months to build a respectable total before you have to disclose it. Another benefit of a full calendar year of campaigning is that it provides candidates with ample opportunity to test, refine or popularize new messages. Some Democrats already have signature taglines: Ms. Warren’s “Nevertheless, we persist,” or the Ohio Senator Sherrod Brown’s “the dignity of work.” Other candidates will be less decided and may try different messages to see what works. Laura Belin, a close Iowa caucus observer and author on the Bleeding Heartland blog, said it was important for candidates to make residents feel as if they are being courted and their concerns are being heard. This could mean tailoring a national message for a local audience, or being responsive to a particular moment that resonates with audiences. “With a field like this, I think there will be a lot of late deciders,” Ms. Belin said. “You can’t predict other events: Some people might stumble along the way. But it’s important to really find your message and appeal to people.” “We joke about how Iowa Democrats are like, ‘I can’t decide because I’ve only met this candidate twice,’ but there’s some truth to that and I feel like that myself. I think highly of a lot of people who are going to run,” she added. Repeated trips to Iowa can allow long-shot candidates to become better known among voters there, but top-tier candidates can also benefit from a sharpened message. Ms. Warren, for example, did not travel to Iowa before making her campaign announcement and will have to introduce herself anew to voters in America’s heartland. “She has a reputation of having a tremendous sense of humor, for example, but I don’t think that people in Iowa have seen that, and they need to,” Mr. Crawford said. “She needs to develop a sense of what Iowa is, what the people care about and are concerned about. I think she could do herself well to do some of those quieter conversations, sit-downs with Iowans on her first couple of trips here,” rather than big rallies. It takes a lot of people to get to the White House, and there are only so many who have experience running successful presidential campaigns. Nobody wants to start a campaign only to find that the best operatives are already committed to rival candidates. Especially in Iowa, where the caucuses demand intense on-the-ground mobilization, campaigns need a slew of organizers. John Delaney, a departing congressman from Maryland who has been running for the Democratic nomination since 2017, has about 20 paid staff members in Iowa and said he expected that to increase to 25, spread across eight field offices, by the end of January. He also has three staff members in New Hampshire and 15 to 20 at his new campaign headquarters in Maryland. Ms. Warren will undoubtedly be spending a lot of her time in the coming weeks building a staff at least that extensive, as will any other candidate who decides to enter the race early. Candidates must also use the coming year to introduce and differentiate themselves on policy grounds, experts said. Retail politics and interpersonal relationships can generate buzz, but in a crowded field, substance will count for just as much as style. Some candidates have already released baseline plans around issues such as tax policy or housing affordability, but 2019 is a time for details. “In a crowded field, what will be important is the clarity of your vision and your pathway that you show people,” Mr. Delaney said in an interview. “ I think what will differentiate the candidates is the person who can really convince people that they should have faith that my leadership can actually make this happen.” On a primary debate stage and in rooms with voters, a policy vision gives candidates an air of seriousness. Politically, it can also help a candidate shore up support among voters in more skeptical demographic groups. Ms. Warren, for example, drew praise for her focus on housing affordability, which she targeted at black voters, a key constituency in the Democratic primary. Other Democrats said they were looking to candidates like Senator Kamala Harris of California or Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey, to see if their policies will tap into more populist, anti-Wall Street themes. “Beyond Trump, every Democratic candidate will need to prove that they have a policy vision to address the deep inequalities of power and opportunity in America,” said Heather McGhee, the former president of Demos, the progressive political group. She said Ms. Warren had, to this point, led the pack on progressive policy. “Elizabeth Warren is the Democrat who has released the most comprehensive ideas about restructuring the corporate sector to reduce inequality,” she said. Every candidate has some sort of weakness or liability he or she needs to address, and those who enter the race early, like Ms. Warren, will want to try to get out ahead of it. Ms. Warren’s biggest liability, at this point, may be the DNA test she took in an effort to prove her claims of Native American ancestry. Her decision to release the test results angered many Native Americans, as well as progressive Democrats in her base, and some of her own advisers believe she needs a plan to repair the damage. So far, she has refused to apologize publicly, and she shrugged off a reporter’s question this week about the DNA test by saying she had “put it all out there” and people could see the information for themselves. Mr. Crawford of Iowa said, “If they’ve got challenging issues, like that one is for Senator Warren, I think first of all they need to be prepared to discuss it.” “They need to be very straightforward about it,” he added. Virtually all of the expected Democratic candidates have some issue, small or large, that they will have to confront if they run. For Joseph R. Biden Jr., it could be his actions during the Anita Hill hearings; for Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, her role in pushing Al Franken to resign from the Senate in response to sexual misconduct allegations; for Mr. Booker, his ties to Wall Street; for Ms. Harris, elements of her prosecutorial record in California. The coming weeks, before the campaign really gets underway, will be a good time to identify and even address those potential liabilities. Shane Goldmacher contributed reporting.   Supported by By Astead W. Herndon Beto O’Rourke, the charismatic Texas Democrat and former member of the House of Representatives, announced his presidential campaign in a video on Thursday. The three-minute clip quickly racked up thousands of shares, with some viewers excited by the prospect of his out-of-nowhere political rise. But others were put off by how his campaign deployed an age-old trope in American political theater — the silent, supportive wife.  Throughout the video, Mr. O’Rourke’s wife, Amy, sat quietly by her husband’s side, periodically grasping his hand as he outlined his campaign vision.  She occasionally smiled. And gazed. Mr. O’Rourke, 46, has repeatedly cast his presidential bid as a sign of generational change, attempting to draw a contrast between himself and President Trump, who is 72.  But several authors, business leaders and scholars who focus on gender studies and discrimination said there was nothing new or progressive about the power dynamics projected in the video.  Throughout the 1980s, Nancy Reagan and Barbara Bush could be found next to their presidential husbands, often silently supporting them in big moments. More recently, buoyed by Hillary Clinton’s active role in her husband’s campaigns, many elected officials have leaned on their partners as high-profile surrogates.  In the current presidential race, Jane Sanders, wife of Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, enjoyed a prominent behind-the-scenes role and gave a speech at his initial campaign rally. Connie Schultz, the newspaper columnist and wife of Senator Sherrod Brown of Ohio, has a fan base all her own, and was set to be one of the most popular figures on this year’s campaign trail before Mr. Brown declined to seek the Oval Office.  Mr. O’Rourke’s video struck some observers as especially out of place in a presidential race in which more Democratic women are running for president than ever before. Among several of these women, the husbands are rarely seen.  [Check out our tracker of the 2020 Democratic candidate field.] On his first day campaigning, in a seemingly offhand comment, Mr. O’Rourke joked about his wife, saying she was raising their children, “sometimes with my help.” His comment elicited both laughter and derision. He later said he would not make that comment again, calling it “ham handed,” and also acknowledged that he had “enjoyed white privilege.”  This was not the first time Mr. O’Rourke had been accused of appearing to revel in his advantages as a white male in an increasingly diverse Democratic Party.  As he announced his campaign, complete with a profile in Vanity Fair in which he hinted he was “born to” run for president, detractors pointed out that prominent black Democrats who lost their 2018 campaigns — including Stacey Abrams in Georgia and Andrew Gillum in Florida — are not running for president.  For weeks before his presidential announcement, Mr. O’Rourke traveled across the country as he wrestled privately with whether to run and wrote musings on his Medium account. This drew jokes from several comedians and prominent social media voices, who compared his public agonizing with the stereotypical tendency for men to refuse to commit to relationships — particularly romantic ones.   Meghean Felling, Sergio Peçanha and Anjali Singhvi contributed. Astead W. Herndon is a national political reporter based in New York. He was previously a Washington-based political reporter and a City Hall reporter for The Boston Globe.  @AsteadWesley 

Supported by By Astead W. Herndon Beto O’Rourke, the charismatic Texas Democrat and former member of the House of Representatives, announced his presidential campaign in a video on Thursday. The three-minute clip quickly racked up thousands of shares, with some viewers excited by the prospect of his out-of-nowhere political rise. But others were put off by how his campaign deployed an age-old trope in American political theater — the silent, supportive wife.  Throughout the video, Mr. O’Rourke’s wife, Amy, sat quietly by her husband’s side, periodically grasping his hand as he outlined his campaign vision.  She occasionally smiled. And gazed. Mr. O’Rourke, 46, has repeatedly cast his presidential bid as a sign of generational change, attempting to draw a contrast between himself and President Trump, who is 72.  But several authors, business leaders and scholars who focus on gender studies and discrimination said there was nothing new or progressive about the power dynamics projected in the video.  Throughout the 1980s, Nancy Reagan and Barbara Bush could be found next to their presidential husbands, often silently supporting them in big moments. More recently, buoyed by Hillary Clinton’s active role in her husband’s campaigns, many elected officials have leaned on their partners as high-profile surrogates.  In the current presidential race, Jane Sanders, wife of Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, enjoyed a prominent behind-the-scenes role and gave a speech at his initial campaign rally. Connie Schultz, the newspaper columnist and wife of Senator Sherrod Brown of Ohio, has a fan base all her own, and was set to be one of the most popular figures on this year’s campaign trail before Mr. Brown declined to seek the Oval Office.  Mr. O’Rourke’s video struck some observers as especially out of place in a presidential race in which more Democratic women are running for president than ever before. Among several of these women, the husbands are rarely seen.  [Check out our tracker of the 2020 Democratic candidate field.] On his first day campaigning, in a seemingly offhand comment, Mr. O’Rourke joked about his wife, saying she was raising their children, “sometimes with my help.” His comment elicited both laughter and derision. He later said he would not make that comment again, calling it “ham handed,” and also acknowledged that he had “enjoyed white privilege.”  This was not the first time Mr. O’Rourke had been accused of appearing to revel in his advantages as a white male in an increasingly diverse Democratic Party.  As he announced his campaign, complete with a profile in Vanity Fair in which he hinted he was “born to” run for president, detractors pointed out that prominent black Democrats who lost their 2018 campaigns — including Stacey Abrams in Georgia and Andrew Gillum in Florida — are not running for president.  For weeks before his presidential announcement, Mr. O’Rourke traveled across the country as he wrestled privately with whether to run and wrote musings on his Medium account. This drew jokes from several comedians and prominent social media voices, who compared his public agonizing with the stereotypical tendency for men to refuse to commit to relationships — particularly romantic ones.   Meghean Felling, Sergio Peçanha and Anjali Singhvi contributed. Astead W. Herndon is a national political reporter based in New York. He was previously a Washington-based political reporter and a City Hall reporter for The Boston Globe.  @AsteadWesley Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — U.S. Democratic presidential contender Bernie Sanders released 10 years of tax returns on Monday, providing details of his growing status as a millionaire fueled by a sharp jump in income from book royalties since his losing 2016 White House run. Sanders, a U.S. senator who routinely rails against the "millionaires and billionaires" he says have rigged the system to protect their wealth and power, had an adjusted gross income of $561,293 in 2018, $1,131,925 in 2017 and $1,062,626 in 2016, the returns showed. He augmented his Senate salary with book royalties in each of those years, particularly in 2016 and 2017 when he made more than $800,000 each year in royalties. Sanders has published three books since the start of his first White House run, including bestsellers "Our Revolution" and "Where We Go From Here." In 2014, the year before he launched his first presidential campaign, Sanders had an adjusted gross income of $205,271. Sanders had faced mounting pressure to release his taxes, with critics saying the democratic socialist's millionaire status undercut his populist economic message. He has made no apologies for his financial well-being. "It comes from a book I wrote, pretty good book," Sanders told a Fox News Channel town hall on Monday. "If anyone thinks that I should apologize for writing a best-selling book, I'm sorry, I'm not going to do it." The interest in presidential contenders and their taxes has jumped since Republican President Donald Trump shattered decades of tradition during the 2016 campaign by refusing to release his returns - a stance he has continued since entering the White House. Several in the growing field of Democratic 2020 contenders, including Senators Kirsten Gillibrand, Amy Klobuchar, Kamala Harris and Elizabeth Warren, and Governor Jay Inslee of Washington, have released their 2018 returns in recent weeks. Beto O'Rourke, the former congressman from Texas, released 10 years of his returns on Monday night. In the most recent year released, 2017, he had an adjusted gross income of $366,455. He promised to release his 2018 return as soon as possible. Most other Democratic contenders have pledged to release their tax returns soon. CHIDES TRUMP But the tax question had become more pressing recently for Sanders, who only released one year of returns during his 2016 campaign, as he moved into a strong early position in polls and fundraising among Democrats seeking the 2020 nomination to challenge Trump. Noting that Trump watches the Fox News Channel, Sanders took the opportunity to chide the president for his failure to release his returns. "Hey President Trump, my wife and I just released 10 years - please do the same," he said during the town hall. Sanders faced criticism for only releasing his 2014 returns during his 2016 Democratic primary battle with Hillary Clinton, a millionaire whom he often derided for giving paid speeches to Wall Street. The tax returns released on Monday showed Sanders paid a 26 percent effective tax rate on his adjusted gross income in 2018. His effective tax rates in 2016 and 2017, his other high-earning years, were 35 percent and 30 percent, respectively. As part of his policy agenda, Sanders has proposed higher taxes on top earners and a big expansion of the estate tax, lowering the threshold where it kicks in to $3.5 million from $11 million, and placing a 77 percent tax rate on the portion of estates worth more than $1 billion.  (Reporting by John Whitesides; Editing by Peter Cooney)

Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — U.S. Democratic presidential contender Bernie Sanders released 10 years of tax returns on Monday, providing details of his growing status as a millionaire fueled by a sharp jump in income from book royalties since his losing 2016 White House run. Sanders, a U.S. senator who routinely rails against the "millionaires and billionaires" he says have rigged the system to protect their wealth and power, had an adjusted gross income of $561,293 in 2018, $1,131,925 in 2017 and $1,062,626 in 2016, the returns showed. He augmented his Senate salary with book royalties in each of those years, particularly in 2016 and 2017 when he made more than $800,000 each year in royalties. Sanders has published three books since the start of his first White House run, including bestsellers "Our Revolution" and "Where We Go From Here." In 2014, the year before he launched his first presidential campaign, Sanders had an adjusted gross income of $205,271. Sanders had faced mounting pressure to release his taxes, with critics saying the democratic socialist's millionaire status undercut his populist economic message. He has made no apologies for his financial well-being. "It comes from a book I wrote, pretty good book," Sanders told a Fox News Channel town hall on Monday. "If anyone thinks that I should apologize for writing a best-selling book, I'm sorry, I'm not going to do it." The interest in presidential contenders and their taxes has jumped since Republican President Donald Trump shattered decades of tradition during the 2016 campaign by refusing to release his returns - a stance he has continued since entering the White House. Several in the growing field of Democratic 2020 contenders, including Senators Kirsten Gillibrand, Amy Klobuchar, Kamala Harris and Elizabeth Warren, and Governor Jay Inslee of Washington, have released their 2018 returns in recent weeks. Beto O'Rourke, the former congressman from Texas, released 10 years of his returns on Monday night. In the most recent year released, 2017, he had an adjusted gross income of $366,455. He promised to release his 2018 return as soon as possible. Most other Democratic contenders have pledged to release their tax returns soon. CHIDES TRUMP But the tax question had become more pressing recently for Sanders, who only released one year of returns during his 2016 campaign, as he moved into a strong early position in polls and fundraising among Democrats seeking the 2020 nomination to challenge Trump. Noting that Trump watches the Fox News Channel, Sanders took the opportunity to chide the president for his failure to release his returns. "Hey President Trump, my wife and I just released 10 years - please do the same," he said during the town hall. Sanders faced criticism for only releasing his 2014 returns during his 2016 Democratic primary battle with Hillary Clinton, a millionaire whom he often derided for giving paid speeches to Wall Street. The tax returns released on Monday showed Sanders paid a 26 percent effective tax rate on his adjusted gross income in 2018. His effective tax rates in 2016 and 2017, his other high-earning years, were 35 percent and 30 percent, respectively. As part of his policy agenda, Sanders has proposed higher taxes on top earners and a big expansion of the estate tax, lowering the threshold where it kicks in to $3.5 million from $11 million, and placing a 77 percent tax rate on the portion of estates worth more than $1 billion.  (Reporting by John Whitesides; Editing by Peter Cooney)Supported by By Astead W. Herndon Senator Elizabeth Warren on Monday escalated her presidential campaign’s battle against big money in politics, announcing that her bid for the Democratic nomination will forgo traditional fund-raising methods meant to cultivate a candidate’s relationships with the wealthy. The Massachusetts senator said she would no longer hold the private fund-raisers and one-on-one meetings with big donors that have become typical for Democrats and Republicans. “That means no fancy receptions or big money fund-raisers only with people who can write the big checks,” Ms. Warren said in a morning email to supporters. “It means that wealthy donors won’t be able to purchase better seats or one-on-one time with me at our events. And it means I won’t be doing ‘call time,’ which is when candidates take hours to call wealthy donors to ask for their support.” Ms. Warren made the announcement as the Democratic primary to oppose President Trump’s re-election bid begins to take shape, and candidates in the crowded field are trying to find ways to distinguish themselves. Ms. Warren, who rose to prominence as a harsh critic of big corporations and unrestrained capitalism, has attempted to push the field in that direction, announcing expansive, liberal ideas on money and wealth more than a year before the first votes are cast. They include a recently announced plan for universal child care and a tax on the wealthiest Americans. [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] Since Ms. Warren was unlikely to receive the majority of support from big donors, the announcement’s most important function could be its political impact. In a crowded field where the slightest factor could influence a voter’s decision, Ms. Warren is seeking to separate herself from other Democrats in the race, including Senator Kamala Harris of California and Senator Kirsten Gillibrand of New York, who have both benefited from high-priced fund-raising events and could now be under more pressure to disavow them. “The wealthy and well-connected have been taught by politicians to expect that more money buys more access — they’ve done it for generations,” Ms. Warren said in her email, “and it too often closes out women and communities of color. We have to do things differently.” [Who’s in, who’s out and who’s still thinking: We’re tracking the Democratic candidates.] The announcement comes as Ms. Warren experiences fund-raising struggles of her own. Last week, as Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont — an ardent progressive like Ms. Warren — boasted a historic fund-raising haul in the first 24 hours after his announcement, Ms. Warren sent multiple emails to her supporters warning them of lagging totals. In the email, which had the subject line “We’re falling short,” Ms. Warren seemed to acknowledge that her campaign would never match the money raised by those of her rivals. “We will be outraised. We will be outspent,” she said. “We just can’t let ourselves be drowned out.”   

Supported by By Astead W. Herndon Senator Elizabeth Warren on Monday escalated her presidential campaign’s battle against big money in politics, announcing that her bid for the Democratic nomination will forgo traditional fund-raising methods meant to cultivate a candidate’s relationships with the wealthy. The Massachusetts senator said she would no longer hold the private fund-raisers and one-on-one meetings with big donors that have become typical for Democrats and Republicans. “That means no fancy receptions or big money fund-raisers only with people who can write the big checks,” Ms. Warren said in a morning email to supporters. “It means that wealthy donors won’t be able to purchase better seats or one-on-one time with me at our events. And it means I won’t be doing ‘call time,’ which is when candidates take hours to call wealthy donors to ask for their support.” Ms. Warren made the announcement as the Democratic primary to oppose President Trump’s re-election bid begins to take shape, and candidates in the crowded field are trying to find ways to distinguish themselves. Ms. Warren, who rose to prominence as a harsh critic of big corporations and unrestrained capitalism, has attempted to push the field in that direction, announcing expansive, liberal ideas on money and wealth more than a year before the first votes are cast. They include a recently announced plan for universal child care and a tax on the wealthiest Americans. [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] Since Ms. Warren was unlikely to receive the majority of support from big donors, the announcement’s most important function could be its political impact. In a crowded field where the slightest factor could influence a voter’s decision, Ms. Warren is seeking to separate herself from other Democrats in the race, including Senator Kamala Harris of California and Senator Kirsten Gillibrand of New York, who have both benefited from high-priced fund-raising events and could now be under more pressure to disavow them. “The wealthy and well-connected have been taught by politicians to expect that more money buys more access — they’ve done it for generations,” Ms. Warren said in her email, “and it too often closes out women and communities of color. We have to do things differently.” [Who’s in, who’s out and who’s still thinking: We’re tracking the Democratic candidates.] The announcement comes as Ms. Warren experiences fund-raising struggles of her own. Last week, as Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont — an ardent progressive like Ms. Warren — boasted a historic fund-raising haul in the first 24 hours after his announcement, Ms. Warren sent multiple emails to her supporters warning them of lagging totals. In the email, which had the subject line “We’re falling short,” Ms. Warren seemed to acknowledge that her campaign would never match the money raised by those of her rivals. “We will be outraised. We will be outspent,” she said. “We just can’t let ourselves be drowned out.”   Supported by By Nicholas Fandos and Maggie Haberman WASHINGTON — Staring down a looming prison sentence for lying to Congress and other crimes, Michael D. Cohen arrived on Capitol Hill last week declaring that he was finally ready to tell the truth about his decade of work alongside President Trump. “I have lied,” Mr. Cohen, the president’s former lawyer, told the House Oversight and Reform Committee at the outset of an explosive public hearing. “But I am not a liar.” At least for now, Mr. Cohen’s success in clearing up his past actions, over nearly a week of public and private testimony on Capitol Hill, has become more muddled. Mr. Cohen laid out a detailed case, complete with documentary evidence, that Mr. Trump fully participated in a fraudulent scheme during the closing weeks of his presidential campaign to buy the silence of a pornographic film actress who claimed they had an affair. But he left Washington on Wednesday having, however inadvertently, also handed his Republican critics just what they were looking for: fresh material they could weaponize to try to undermine the credibility of that larger account. They wasted little time in seizing it. Mr. Trump’s legal team and Republicans on Capitol Hill have in recent days accused Mr. Cohen of changing key details of his stories — particularly about a possible job in the White House and a possible presidential pardon — to his benefit, and of seeking to profit off his notoriety. Mr. Trump himself picked up on one of their points Thursday afternoon. Mr. Cohen’s allies have brushed off the criticism as little more than distractions, and suggested that the release of additional testimony he gave in private will clear him. Still, the conflicting and disputed claims underscore Mr. Cohen’s flaws as a witness, at least in the version of investigations being litigated publicly by Congress. “If today’s answer is different than yesterday’s answer, he just gets a reset, and says now I’m telling you the truth?” said Senator Richard M. Burr, Republican of North Carolina and the chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, which also privately grilled Mr. Cohen last week. “Prove it.” All indications remain, however, that Mr. Cohen has proved to be a valuable witness for federal prosecutors working for the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, who have vouched for his truthfulness, and the Southern District of New York, who appear to have built a case at least in part around his accounts. In his public testimony before the House Oversight Committee last week, Mr. Cohen emphatically denied that he had ever wanted a White House job or a presidential pardon. “I did not want to go to the White House,” Mr. Cohen asserted under questioning. But while he was still seated at the table in the hearing room, one of the president’s sons, Eric Trump, took to Twitter to dispute one of the claims. “Michael was lobbying EVERYONE to be ‘Chief of Staff,’” he wrote. “It was the biggest joke in the campaign and around the office. Did he just perjure himself again?” Other members of the 2016 Trump campaign backed him up. Mr. Cohen was just as adamant that he had not sought a pardon from Mr. Trump. “I have never asked for, nor would I accept, a pardon from Mr. Trump,” he said at the hearing. A week after that testimony, though, Mr. Cohen’s lawyer, Lanny J. Davis, told The Wall Street Journal that Mr. Cohen had directed his former lawyer, Stephen Ryan, to inquire about the possibility of a pardon with Mr. Trump’s lawyers. Mr. Davis maintained that there was no discrepancy between that statement and Mr. Cohen’s testimony, insisting that his client had given those instructions only after the Trump team had “dangled” a possible pardon while they were all part of a shared defense. Mr. Davis said that Mr. Cohen was referring in his testimony to the period after early July 2018, when the president’s former fixer split from his old boss. This time, it was Mr. Trump’s eldest son, Donald Trump Jr., who pounced. “So Cohen’s lawyer is admitting that Cohen committed perjury just last week when he said he NEVER sought a pardon?” the president’s son, who of the Trump children was the closest to Mr. Cohen, posted on Twitter. “Just making sure we are all on the same page here. CC: DOJ.” Republicans in Congress, who conspicuously sought at the hearings to discredit Mr. Cohen rather than defend the president, quickly sought to document what they claimed were inconsistencies. Two of the Oversight Committee’s top Republicans, Representatives Jim Jordan of Ohio and Mark Meadows of North Carolina, referred Mr. Cohen to the Justice Department for possible prosecution for perjury. Mr. Cohen’s testimony, they wrote, had been “a spectacular and brazen attempt to knowingly and willfully testify falsely and fictitiously to numerous material facts.” They documented what they said were six possible material misstatements by Mr. Cohen during the hearing, and on Thursday added Mr. Cohen’s statements about pardons to the list. “As I warned before Mr. Cohen’s appearance before the Oversight Committee, relying on an admitted liar to attack the president is beneath the dignity of the People’s House,” Mr. Jordan said in a statement on Thursday. On Twitter, he asked the committee’s chairman, Representative Elijah E. Cummings, Democrat of Maryland, to take the claims seriously. Democrats have been careful to qualify that they will need additional testimony and evidence to corroborate some of Mr. Cohen’s claims. But they have dismissed Republicans’ accusations as simple partisanship. “I don’t think people should jump to conclusions until they have a chance to review all the evidence, including the testimony,” Representative Raja Krishnamoorthi of Illinois, a Democratic member of the Oversight and Intelligence Committees. People close to Mr. Cohen said that he had been expecting Republicans to attack his truthfulness. Mr. Davis said in an interview that what Mr. Trump and his allies were doing was reminiscent of his own days working as a counsel in the Clinton White House during congressional investigations led by Republicans. In this case, he said, the goal is distracting from the fact that the president was reimbursing Mr. Cohen. “What we would do is focus on a little trip-up, or pebble or something,” Mr. Davis said, with the intention of getting “everybody to talk about it so the big picture is obscured.” “When we were facing a serious media storm,” he said, “we would do everything we could to change the subject to something trivial.” The bigger picture, Mr. Davis said, “is we have proven beyond any doubt that the president of the United States committed a felony by writing those checks.” There were other public statements by Mr. Cohen under scrutiny as well. Mr. Cohen testified in public that White House lawyers, including Jay Sekulow, had edited the false statement he delivered to Congress in 2017 about a proposed Trump Tower project in Moscow during the 2016 presidential campaign. “There were several changes that were made including how we were going to handle that message, which was — the message of course being the length of time that the Trump Tower Moscow project stayed and remained alive,” he said. Mr. Cohen shared drafts of the statement and other documents with the intelligence committees on Wednesday that he said supported that public claim. But on Thursday, Mr. Davis confirmed to CNN that Mr. Cohen had in fact written the false line. Others familiar with discussions that took place at the time of Mr. Cohen’s original testimony said that his lawyers approved all of the Trump legal team’s proposals. These people added that the Trump lawyers had no indication at the time that the dates cited by Mr. Cohen were inaccurate. Nicholas Fandos reported from Washington, and Maggie Haberman from New York. Emily Cochrane contributed reporting from Washington. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.

Supported by By Nicholas Fandos and Maggie Haberman WASHINGTON — Staring down a looming prison sentence for lying to Congress and other crimes, Michael D. Cohen arrived on Capitol Hill last week declaring that he was finally ready to tell the truth about his decade of work alongside President Trump. “I have lied,” Mr. Cohen, the president’s former lawyer, told the House Oversight and Reform Committee at the outset of an explosive public hearing. “But I am not a liar.” At least for now, Mr. Cohen’s success in clearing up his past actions, over nearly a week of public and private testimony on Capitol Hill, has become more muddled. Mr. Cohen laid out a detailed case, complete with documentary evidence, that Mr. Trump fully participated in a fraudulent scheme during the closing weeks of his presidential campaign to buy the silence of a pornographic film actress who claimed they had an affair. But he left Washington on Wednesday having, however inadvertently, also handed his Republican critics just what they were looking for: fresh material they could weaponize to try to undermine the credibility of that larger account. They wasted little time in seizing it. Mr. Trump’s legal team and Republicans on Capitol Hill have in recent days accused Mr. Cohen of changing key details of his stories — particularly about a possible job in the White House and a possible presidential pardon — to his benefit, and of seeking to profit off his notoriety. Mr. Trump himself picked up on one of their points Thursday afternoon. Mr. Cohen’s allies have brushed off the criticism as little more than distractions, and suggested that the release of additional testimony he gave in private will clear him. Still, the conflicting and disputed claims underscore Mr. Cohen’s flaws as a witness, at least in the version of investigations being litigated publicly by Congress. “If today’s answer is different than yesterday’s answer, he just gets a reset, and says now I’m telling you the truth?” said Senator Richard M. Burr, Republican of North Carolina and the chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, which also privately grilled Mr. Cohen last week. “Prove it.” All indications remain, however, that Mr. Cohen has proved to be a valuable witness for federal prosecutors working for the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, who have vouched for his truthfulness, and the Southern District of New York, who appear to have built a case at least in part around his accounts. In his public testimony before the House Oversight Committee last week, Mr. Cohen emphatically denied that he had ever wanted a White House job or a presidential pardon. “I did not want to go to the White House,” Mr. Cohen asserted under questioning. But while he was still seated at the table in the hearing room, one of the president’s sons, Eric Trump, took to Twitter to dispute one of the claims. “Michael was lobbying EVERYONE to be ‘Chief of Staff,’” he wrote. “It was the biggest joke in the campaign and around the office. Did he just perjure himself again?” Other members of the 2016 Trump campaign backed him up. Mr. Cohen was just as adamant that he had not sought a pardon from Mr. Trump. “I have never asked for, nor would I accept, a pardon from Mr. Trump,” he said at the hearing. A week after that testimony, though, Mr. Cohen’s lawyer, Lanny J. Davis, told The Wall Street Journal that Mr. Cohen had directed his former lawyer, Stephen Ryan, to inquire about the possibility of a pardon with Mr. Trump’s lawyers. Mr. Davis maintained that there was no discrepancy between that statement and Mr. Cohen’s testimony, insisting that his client had given those instructions only after the Trump team had “dangled” a possible pardon while they were all part of a shared defense. Mr. Davis said that Mr. Cohen was referring in his testimony to the period after early July 2018, when the president’s former fixer split from his old boss. This time, it was Mr. Trump’s eldest son, Donald Trump Jr., who pounced. “So Cohen’s lawyer is admitting that Cohen committed perjury just last week when he said he NEVER sought a pardon?” the president’s son, who of the Trump children was the closest to Mr. Cohen, posted on Twitter. “Just making sure we are all on the same page here. CC: DOJ.” Republicans in Congress, who conspicuously sought at the hearings to discredit Mr. Cohen rather than defend the president, quickly sought to document what they claimed were inconsistencies. Two of the Oversight Committee’s top Republicans, Representatives Jim Jordan of Ohio and Mark Meadows of North Carolina, referred Mr. Cohen to the Justice Department for possible prosecution for perjury. Mr. Cohen’s testimony, they wrote, had been “a spectacular and brazen attempt to knowingly and willfully testify falsely and fictitiously to numerous material facts.” They documented what they said were six possible material misstatements by Mr. Cohen during the hearing, and on Thursday added Mr. Cohen’s statements about pardons to the list. “As I warned before Mr. Cohen’s appearance before the Oversight Committee, relying on an admitted liar to attack the president is beneath the dignity of the People’s House,” Mr. Jordan said in a statement on Thursday. On Twitter, he asked the committee’s chairman, Representative Elijah E. Cummings, Democrat of Maryland, to take the claims seriously. Democrats have been careful to qualify that they will need additional testimony and evidence to corroborate some of Mr. Cohen’s claims. But they have dismissed Republicans’ accusations as simple partisanship. “I don’t think people should jump to conclusions until they have a chance to review all the evidence, including the testimony,” Representative Raja Krishnamoorthi of Illinois, a Democratic member of the Oversight and Intelligence Committees. People close to Mr. Cohen said that he had been expecting Republicans to attack his truthfulness. Mr. Davis said in an interview that what Mr. Trump and his allies were doing was reminiscent of his own days working as a counsel in the Clinton White House during congressional investigations led by Republicans. In this case, he said, the goal is distracting from the fact that the president was reimbursing Mr. Cohen. “What we would do is focus on a little trip-up, or pebble or something,” Mr. Davis said, with the intention of getting “everybody to talk about it so the big picture is obscured.” “When we were facing a serious media storm,” he said, “we would do everything we could to change the subject to something trivial.” The bigger picture, Mr. Davis said, “is we have proven beyond any doubt that the president of the United States committed a felony by writing those checks.” There were other public statements by Mr. Cohen under scrutiny as well. Mr. Cohen testified in public that White House lawyers, including Jay Sekulow, had edited the false statement he delivered to Congress in 2017 about a proposed Trump Tower project in Moscow during the 2016 presidential campaign. “There were several changes that were made including how we were going to handle that message, which was — the message of course being the length of time that the Trump Tower Moscow project stayed and remained alive,” he said. Mr. Cohen shared drafts of the statement and other documents with the intelligence committees on Wednesday that he said supported that public claim. But on Thursday, Mr. Davis confirmed to CNN that Mr. Cohen had in fact written the false line. Others familiar with discussions that took place at the time of Mr. Cohen’s original testimony said that his lawyers approved all of the Trump legal team’s proposals. These people added that the Trump lawyers had no indication at the time that the dates cited by Mr. Cohen were inaccurate. Nicholas Fandos reported from Washington, and Maggie Haberman from New York. Emily Cochrane contributed reporting from Washington. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — Special Counsel Robert Mueller's probe of Russian interference in U.S. politics is over, but prosecutors are investigating two prominent Washington lobbyists for their work for the former pro-Russian government of Ukraine, according to three sources close to the probe. In a sign that evidence from Mueller's 22-month investigation may yet ensnare more prominent Washington figures, federal prosecutors in Washington cited a former U.S. congressman "working for the government of Ukraine" in charges filed Thursday against former Obama administration official Greg Craig. Craig pleaded not guilty on Friday to lobbying violations and making false statements.  The former congressman is not named in Craig's indictment, but other filings by his former law firm cite identical work done for the firm by Vin Weber, a lobbyist with Mercury Public Affairs, who was a U.S. representative from Minnesota from 1981 to 1993.  Weber disclosed his work for a Ukrainian think tank, but he did not register as a foreign agent for the government of Ukraine under a the 1938 Foreign Agents Registration Act (FARA), which would have required him to spell out his activity in detail, according to a Reuters review of lobbying records. The Department of Justice is stepping up FARA enforcement after decades of inactivity. Mueller's investigation has not led to criminal conspiracy charges against Trump or his former associates, but it has exposed previously hidden foreign lobbying activity by some of Washington's most prominent lobbyists and prompted a flurry of new registrations since 2017. U.S. Attorney General William Barr is expected to release a redacted version of Mueller's findings next week. Three sources familiar with the investigation said federal prosecutors in Manhattan are examining work done for Ukraine by both Weber and Tony Podesta, brother of John Podesta, a top official of former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton's 2016 Democratic presidential campaign and a former White House adviser.  A spokesperson for Weber and for Mercury declined to comment. Tony Podesta also declined to comment.  The FARA crackdown has factored in cases against Craig, Craig's former law firm Skadden Arps and Paul Manafort, the former Trump campaign chairman now serving a 7-1/2 year prison sentence for lobbying and financial crimes. Other lobbyists have rushed to comply with the law. As of April, 446 separate entities registered with the Justice Department, up from 387 at the end of 2016.  Tony Podesta disclosed his lobbying work for a Brussels-based think tank, the European Centre for a Modern Ukraine, to Congress. But he did not register with the Justice Department as a foreign agent for the government of Ukraine. Podesta's work for the Ukrainian government came to light in 2017 after Mueller's team charged Manafort with lobbying violations. Those revelations prompted Podesta to step down in October 2017 from his Podesta Associates lobbying firm, which collapsed shortly after. Sources familiar with the investigation said that investigations into Ukraine-related lobbying by Craig, Podesta and Weber were all initially being pursued by the Manhattan-based U.S. Attorney's office for the Southern District of New York, but the probe related to Craig was transferred to federal prosecutors in Washington. Craig denies misleading the Justice Department about his activity in Ukraine, saying in a statement on Thursday that the effort to prosecute him was "unprecedented and unjustified."  According to the indictment, Craig was hired to write a report for the Ukrainian Justice Ministry about the prosecution of former Ukraine Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko. Prosecutors say Craig concealed the fact that the project was largely funded by Viktor Pinchuk, a Ukrainian oligarch who was close to Bill and Hillary Clinton but also donated to the Trump Foundation after Donald Trump made a September 2015 speech in Kiev.  (Reporting by Mark Hosenball and Andy Sullivan; Editing by Kevin Drawbaugh and Cynthia Osterman)

Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — Special Counsel Robert Mueller's probe of Russian interference in U.S. politics is over, but prosecutors are investigating two prominent Washington lobbyists for their work for the former pro-Russian government of Ukraine, according to three sources close to the probe. In a sign that evidence from Mueller's 22-month investigation may yet ensnare more prominent Washington figures, federal prosecutors in Washington cited a former U.S. congressman "working for the government of Ukraine" in charges filed Thursday against former Obama administration official Greg Craig. Craig pleaded not guilty on Friday to lobbying violations and making false statements.  The former congressman is not named in Craig's indictment, but other filings by his former law firm cite identical work done for the firm by Vin Weber, a lobbyist with Mercury Public Affairs, who was a U.S. representative from Minnesota from 1981 to 1993.  Weber disclosed his work for a Ukrainian think tank, but he did not register as a foreign agent for the government of Ukraine under a the 1938 Foreign Agents Registration Act (FARA), which would have required him to spell out his activity in detail, according to a Reuters review of lobbying records. The Department of Justice is stepping up FARA enforcement after decades of inactivity. Mueller's investigation has not led to criminal conspiracy charges against Trump or his former associates, but it has exposed previously hidden foreign lobbying activity by some of Washington's most prominent lobbyists and prompted a flurry of new registrations since 2017. U.S. Attorney General William Barr is expected to release a redacted version of Mueller's findings next week. Three sources familiar with the investigation said federal prosecutors in Manhattan are examining work done for Ukraine by both Weber and Tony Podesta, brother of John Podesta, a top official of former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton's 2016 Democratic presidential campaign and a former White House adviser.  A spokesperson for Weber and for Mercury declined to comment. Tony Podesta also declined to comment.  The FARA crackdown has factored in cases against Craig, Craig's former law firm Skadden Arps and Paul Manafort, the former Trump campaign chairman now serving a 7-1/2 year prison sentence for lobbying and financial crimes. Other lobbyists have rushed to comply with the law. As of April, 446 separate entities registered with the Justice Department, up from 387 at the end of 2016.  Tony Podesta disclosed his lobbying work for a Brussels-based think tank, the European Centre for a Modern Ukraine, to Congress. But he did not register with the Justice Department as a foreign agent for the government of Ukraine. Podesta's work for the Ukrainian government came to light in 2017 after Mueller's team charged Manafort with lobbying violations. Those revelations prompted Podesta to step down in October 2017 from his Podesta Associates lobbying firm, which collapsed shortly after. Sources familiar with the investigation said that investigations into Ukraine-related lobbying by Craig, Podesta and Weber were all initially being pursued by the Manhattan-based U.S. Attorney's office for the Southern District of New York, but the probe related to Craig was transferred to federal prosecutors in Washington. Craig denies misleading the Justice Department about his activity in Ukraine, saying in a statement on Thursday that the effort to prosecute him was "unprecedented and unjustified."  According to the indictment, Craig was hired to write a report for the Ukrainian Justice Ministry about the prosecution of former Ukraine Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko. Prosecutors say Craig concealed the fact that the project was largely funded by Viktor Pinchuk, a Ukrainian oligarch who was close to Bill and Hillary Clinton but also donated to the Trump Foundation after Donald Trump made a September 2015 speech in Kiev.  (Reporting by Mark Hosenball and Andy Sullivan; Editing by Kevin Drawbaugh and Cynthia Osterman)Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump's longtime confidant, Roger Stone, asked a federal judge Friday to compel the Justice Department to turn over a full copy of special counsel Robert Mueller's report on the Russia investigation as part of discovery in his criminal case. Stone has pleaded not guilty to charges he lied to Congress, engaged in witness tampering and obstructed a congressional investigation into possible coordination between Russia and Donald Trump's 2016 presidential campaign. In a court filing late Friday night, his lawyers said Stone is entitled to see the confidential report — which was submitted to the attorney general late last month — because it would help prove their allegation that there are constitutional issues with the investigation. In a separate action, a former aide to Stone who was subpoenaed to testify before a grand jury asked a federal appeals court to determine whether he still needs to testify now that the Russia probe has concluded. Stone's team also filed motions Friday night arguing he was selectively prosecuted, challenging the constitutionality of Mueller's appointment and that the special counsel didn't have the ability to prosecute him for lying to Congress. They allege that Congress did not formally make a referral to the Justice Department about Stone's testimony and because of that, Mueller's investigation was "a violation of the separation of powers." In court documents, the lawyers argue they are entitled to a private disclosure of the nearly 400-page report that Mueller submitted to Attorney General William Barr late last month and said they "must be allowed to review the Report in its entirety because it contains the government's evidence and conclusions on matters essential to Stone's defense." "To be clear, Stone is not requesting the Report be disclosed to the world - only to his counsel so that it may aid in preparing his defense," the lawyers wrote. Stone, who is set to go on trial in November, has maintained his innocence and blasted the special counsel's investigation as politically motivated. He has pleaded not guilty to the charges, which stem from conversations he had during the campaign about WikiLeaks, the anti-secrecy group that released material stolen from Democratic groups, including Hillary Clinton's campaign. In a four-page letter to Congress that detailed Mueller's "principal conclusions," Barr said the special counsel did not find a criminal conspiracy between Russia and Trump associates during the campaign, but did not reach a definitive conclusion on whether Trump obstructed justice. Instead, Mueller presented evidence on both sides of the obstruction question, but Barr said he did not believe the evidence was sufficient to prove that Trump had obstructed justice. Barr has said he expects to release a redacted version of Mueller's report next week that will be sent to Congress and made public. In the separate case, Andrew Miller, a former Stone aide, filed a petition with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia over the subpoena he was issued in Mueller's investigation. Last year, Mueller's team sought Miller's testimony regarding Stone, WikiLeaks and the Russian government-controlled online persona Guccifer 2.0, which was used to release hacked material during the 2016 election. But Miller challenged his grand jury subpoena, arguing that Mueller's appointment was unconstitutional. Earlier this year a three-judge panel of the court upheld the special counsel's appointment and a contempt order intended to force Miller to testify. In the new petition, Miller's attorney, Paul Kamenar, argued that the matter now appears to be moot because Stone has been indicted and like "Cinderella's carriage that turned into a pumpkin at midnight, special counsel Mueller's authority expired." Kamenar is now asking the court to have the government formally say whether it will still pursue Miller's testimony. If that's the case, Kamenar is asking for a rehearing of the case. He said in a statement that he will take the fight to the Supreme Court if necessary. ___ Read the petition: http://apne.ws/rQRdegR

Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump's longtime confidant, Roger Stone, asked a federal judge Friday to compel the Justice Department to turn over a full copy of special counsel Robert Mueller's report on the Russia investigation as part of discovery in his criminal case. Stone has pleaded not guilty to charges he lied to Congress, engaged in witness tampering and obstructed a congressional investigation into possible coordination between Russia and Donald Trump's 2016 presidential campaign. In a court filing late Friday night, his lawyers said Stone is entitled to see the confidential report — which was submitted to the attorney general late last month — because it would help prove their allegation that there are constitutional issues with the investigation. In a separate action, a former aide to Stone who was subpoenaed to testify before a grand jury asked a federal appeals court to determine whether he still needs to testify now that the Russia probe has concluded. Stone's team also filed motions Friday night arguing he was selectively prosecuted, challenging the constitutionality of Mueller's appointment and that the special counsel didn't have the ability to prosecute him for lying to Congress. They allege that Congress did not formally make a referral to the Justice Department about Stone's testimony and because of that, Mueller's investigation was "a violation of the separation of powers." In court documents, the lawyers argue they are entitled to a private disclosure of the nearly 400-page report that Mueller submitted to Attorney General William Barr late last month and said they "must be allowed to review the Report in its entirety because it contains the government's evidence and conclusions on matters essential to Stone's defense." "To be clear, Stone is not requesting the Report be disclosed to the world - only to his counsel so that it may aid in preparing his defense," the lawyers wrote. Stone, who is set to go on trial in November, has maintained his innocence and blasted the special counsel's investigation as politically motivated. He has pleaded not guilty to the charges, which stem from conversations he had during the campaign about WikiLeaks, the anti-secrecy group that released material stolen from Democratic groups, including Hillary Clinton's campaign. In a four-page letter to Congress that detailed Mueller's "principal conclusions," Barr said the special counsel did not find a criminal conspiracy between Russia and Trump associates during the campaign, but did not reach a definitive conclusion on whether Trump obstructed justice. Instead, Mueller presented evidence on both sides of the obstruction question, but Barr said he did not believe the evidence was sufficient to prove that Trump had obstructed justice. Barr has said he expects to release a redacted version of Mueller's report next week that will be sent to Congress and made public. In the separate case, Andrew Miller, a former Stone aide, filed a petition with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia over the subpoena he was issued in Mueller's investigation. Last year, Mueller's team sought Miller's testimony regarding Stone, WikiLeaks and the Russian government-controlled online persona Guccifer 2.0, which was used to release hacked material during the 2016 election. But Miller challenged his grand jury subpoena, arguing that Mueller's appointment was unconstitutional. Earlier this year a three-judge panel of the court upheld the special counsel's appointment and a contempt order intended to force Miller to testify. In the new petition, Miller's attorney, Paul Kamenar, argued that the matter now appears to be moot because Stone has been indicted and like "Cinderella's carriage that turned into a pumpkin at midnight, special counsel Mueller's authority expired." Kamenar is now asking the court to have the government formally say whether it will still pursue Miller's testimony. If that's the case, Kamenar is asking for a rehearing of the case. He said in a statement that he will take the fight to the Supreme Court if necessary. ___ Read the petition: http://apne.ws/rQRdegRSupported by Congress could free most Americans from the annual drudgery of filling out tax forms. Instead, it’s trying to lock the current system in place.  By The Editorial Board The editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section. Congress has landed on one of those rare ideas that commands support from both Democrats and Republicans. Unfortunately, it’s a bad one. On Tuesday, the House approved legislation misleadingly titled the Taxpayer First Act that includes a provision prohibiting the Internal Revenue Service from developing a free online system that most American households could use to file their taxes. The Senate is considering a similar piece of bipartisan legislation. This makes no sense. Congress should be making it easier for Americans to file their taxes. Instead of barring the I.R.S. from making April a little less miserable, why isn’t Congress requiring the I.R.S. to create a free tax filing website? Better yet, the United States could emulate the roughly three dozen countries, including Chile, Japan and Britain, where most taxpayers do not need to fill out tax returns. In some of those countries, the accuracy of tax withholding is sufficient to obviate the annual filing process. In others, the government sends out completed forms to most taxpayers. In Estonia, filing taxes can be done in less than three minutes. The federal government collects enough information about most American households to mail out a completed tax form that people would simply need to verify, sign and return. President Ronald Reagan proposed a version of just such a system. In 1998, Congress passed a law instructing the I.R.S. to develop such a system by 2008. President Barack Obama endorsed the concept during the 2008 presidential campaign. It still hasn’t happened. The explanation is sad but not surprising. The most vocal opponent of simplicity is Intuit, the maker of TurboTax, which has spent millions of dollars lobbying against efforts to reduce demand for its services. The company draws support from conservatives worried that making it easier to file taxes would make it easier to raise taxes. Since the early 2000s, the government has required Intuit and its competitors to offer free tax-filing software to the 70 percent of taxpayers with the lowest incomes. The legislation requires the I.R.S. to continue the Free File program rather than developing its own. Senator Ron Wyden, the Oregon Democrat who is co-sponsoring the Senate version of the bill, said on Wednesday that the I.R.S. would retain the authority to end the Free File program. But a number of independent experts, including the National Consumer Law Center, said the bill removed that exit ramp. But only about 3 percent of taxpayers use the programs. Intuit and its allies, including proponents of the legislation, say that it’s cheaper and better for the government to let private companies run the system. But companies have little incentive to advertise the availability of free filing or to make the system easy to use. Indeed, they have every reason to steer people away from the free products. That is how they make money. As a result, the government is saving taxpayer money at the expense of those taxpayers. There is evidence that automatic payment systems can make it easier to raise prices. A 2009 study found agencies raised toll rates after the adoption of E-ZPass, perhaps because drivers were less likely to object if they were unaware of the increases. But an automatic filing system also might help taxpayers to save money. For example, almost a quarter of eligible households don’t claim the earned-income tax credit. Members of Congress pay lip service to ideas like filing taxes on a postcard, but they continue to perpetuate the current system of mass April immiseration by preventing the most obvious and effective way to simplify tax collection. Americans with complicated finances are stuck with the misery of the current tax system. That’s no reason to force most Americans to join them. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported by Congress could free most Americans from the annual drudgery of filling out tax forms. Instead, it’s trying to lock the current system in place.  By The Editorial Board The editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section. Congress has landed on one of those rare ideas that commands support from both Democrats and Republicans. Unfortunately, it’s a bad one. On Tuesday, the House approved legislation misleadingly titled the Taxpayer First Act that includes a provision prohibiting the Internal Revenue Service from developing a free online system that most American households could use to file their taxes. The Senate is considering a similar piece of bipartisan legislation. This makes no sense. Congress should be making it easier for Americans to file their taxes. Instead of barring the I.R.S. from making April a little less miserable, why isn’t Congress requiring the I.R.S. to create a free tax filing website? Better yet, the United States could emulate the roughly three dozen countries, including Chile, Japan and Britain, where most taxpayers do not need to fill out tax returns. In some of those countries, the accuracy of tax withholding is sufficient to obviate the annual filing process. In others, the government sends out completed forms to most taxpayers. In Estonia, filing taxes can be done in less than three minutes. The federal government collects enough information about most American households to mail out a completed tax form that people would simply need to verify, sign and return. President Ronald Reagan proposed a version of just such a system. In 1998, Congress passed a law instructing the I.R.S. to develop such a system by 2008. President Barack Obama endorsed the concept during the 2008 presidential campaign. It still hasn’t happened. The explanation is sad but not surprising. The most vocal opponent of simplicity is Intuit, the maker of TurboTax, which has spent millions of dollars lobbying against efforts to reduce demand for its services. The company draws support from conservatives worried that making it easier to file taxes would make it easier to raise taxes. Since the early 2000s, the government has required Intuit and its competitors to offer free tax-filing software to the 70 percent of taxpayers with the lowest incomes. The legislation requires the I.R.S. to continue the Free File program rather than developing its own. Senator Ron Wyden, the Oregon Democrat who is co-sponsoring the Senate version of the bill, said on Wednesday that the I.R.S. would retain the authority to end the Free File program. But a number of independent experts, including the National Consumer Law Center, said the bill removed that exit ramp. But only about 3 percent of taxpayers use the programs. Intuit and its allies, including proponents of the legislation, say that it’s cheaper and better for the government to let private companies run the system. But companies have little incentive to advertise the availability of free filing or to make the system easy to use. Indeed, they have every reason to steer people away from the free products. That is how they make money. As a result, the government is saving taxpayer money at the expense of those taxpayers. There is evidence that automatic payment systems can make it easier to raise prices. A 2009 study found agencies raised toll rates after the adoption of E-ZPass, perhaps because drivers were less likely to object if they were unaware of the increases. But an automatic filing system also might help taxpayers to save money. For example, almost a quarter of eligible households don’t claim the earned-income tax credit. Members of Congress pay lip service to ideas like filing taxes on a postcard, but they continue to perpetuate the current system of mass April immiseration by preventing the most obvious and effective way to simplify tax collection. Americans with complicated finances are stuck with the misery of the current tax system. That’s no reason to force most Americans to join them. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Supported by By Charlie Savage WASHINGTON — Chelsea Manning, the former Army intelligence analyst who sent archives of secret military and diplomatic documents to WikiLeaks in 2010, said on Thursday that she had refused to answer questions about her interactions with the antisecrecy organization before a grand jury — and might be sent to jail as soon as Friday. Ms. Manning had been imprisoned for about seven years before President Barack Obama commuted most of the remainder of her 35-year sentence in 2017, and she was released from a military prison in May of that year. Her defiance of the subpoena means she may be imprisoned again after a judge holds a closed hearing about her legal arguments and whether to hold her in contempt of court. “The court may find me in contempt and order me to jail,” she said in a statement, adding: “In solidarity with many activists facing the odds, I will stand by my principles. I will exhaust every legal remedy available. My legal team continues to challenge the secrecy of these proceedings, and I am prepared to face the consequences of my refusal.” Ms. Manning also confirmed that — as widely suspected — prosecutors wanted to ask her about WikiLeaks. Prosecutors in the Eastern District of Virginia have been investigating the organization for years, and inadvertently revealed last year that they had charged its leader, Julian Assange, under seal. “All of the substantive questions pertained to my disclosures of information to the public in 2010 — answers I provided in extensive testimony, during my court-martial in 2013,” Ms. Manning said. Prosecutors had bestowed legal immunity on Ms. Manning for her testimony, she said, but she responded to each question by saying she refused to answer because it violated her constitutional rights. It had not been clear what the charge against Mr. Assange, who has been living for years in the Ecuadorean Embassy in London to avoid arrest, pertained to: WikiLeaks’ role in publishing leaked, classified documents, or its role in publishing the Democratic emails stolen by Russian government hackers during the 2016 presidential campaign. The disclosure that prosecutors are newly refocused on Ms. Manning’s early interactions with the organization indicates that the case most likely relates to the publication of classified information — a case that would raise novel First Amendment issues. The Obama administration had weighed charging Mr. Assange in connection with Ms. Manning’s disclosures, but decided against it over fears of chilling investigative journalism. After Ms. Manning disclosed her subpoena to The New York Times last week, The Daily Beast reported that David House, an activist and member of a support network for Ms. Manning during the 2010-11 era of legal and activist wrangling over WikiLeaks’ publication of her leaks, had been granted immunity and testified last year before the same grand jury about his interactions with the group. Joshua Stueve, a spokesman for the United States attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia, declined to comment. Judge Claude M. Hilton, who was appointed to the Federal District Court in that district by President Ronald Reagan in 1985, will decide whether to accept Ms. Manning’s arguments for why she had a right to refuse to answer the questions or to send her to jail. He previously declined her request to quash the subpoena before she knew what she would be asked. Follow Charlie Savage on Twitter: @charlie_savage.    

Supported by By Charlie Savage WASHINGTON — Chelsea Manning, the former Army intelligence analyst who sent archives of secret military and diplomatic documents to WikiLeaks in 2010, said on Thursday that she had refused to answer questions about her interactions with the antisecrecy organization before a grand jury — and might be sent to jail as soon as Friday. Ms. Manning had been imprisoned for about seven years before President Barack Obama commuted most of the remainder of her 35-year sentence in 2017, and she was released from a military prison in May of that year. Her defiance of the subpoena means she may be imprisoned again after a judge holds a closed hearing about her legal arguments and whether to hold her in contempt of court. “The court may find me in contempt and order me to jail,” she said in a statement, adding: “In solidarity with many activists facing the odds, I will stand by my principles. I will exhaust every legal remedy available. My legal team continues to challenge the secrecy of these proceedings, and I am prepared to face the consequences of my refusal.” Ms. Manning also confirmed that — as widely suspected — prosecutors wanted to ask her about WikiLeaks. Prosecutors in the Eastern District of Virginia have been investigating the organization for years, and inadvertently revealed last year that they had charged its leader, Julian Assange, under seal. “All of the substantive questions pertained to my disclosures of information to the public in 2010 — answers I provided in extensive testimony, during my court-martial in 2013,” Ms. Manning said. Prosecutors had bestowed legal immunity on Ms. Manning for her testimony, she said, but she responded to each question by saying she refused to answer because it violated her constitutional rights. It had not been clear what the charge against Mr. Assange, who has been living for years in the Ecuadorean Embassy in London to avoid arrest, pertained to: WikiLeaks’ role in publishing leaked, classified documents, or its role in publishing the Democratic emails stolen by Russian government hackers during the 2016 presidential campaign. The disclosure that prosecutors are newly refocused on Ms. Manning’s early interactions with the organization indicates that the case most likely relates to the publication of classified information — a case that would raise novel First Amendment issues. The Obama administration had weighed charging Mr. Assange in connection with Ms. Manning’s disclosures, but decided against it over fears of chilling investigative journalism. After Ms. Manning disclosed her subpoena to The New York Times last week, The Daily Beast reported that David House, an activist and member of a support network for Ms. Manning during the 2010-11 era of legal and activist wrangling over WikiLeaks’ publication of her leaks, had been granted immunity and testified last year before the same grand jury about his interactions with the group. Joshua Stueve, a spokesman for the United States attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia, declined to comment. Judge Claude M. Hilton, who was appointed to the Federal District Court in that district by President Ronald Reagan in 1985, will decide whether to accept Ms. Manning’s arguments for why she had a right to refuse to answer the questions or to send her to jail. He previously declined her request to quash the subpoena before she knew what she would be asked. Follow Charlie Savage on Twitter: @charlie_savage.    Supported by By The Associated Press BOSTON — A Massachusetts man who sent threatening letters with white powder to President Donald Trump's sons, Antonio Sabato Jr., Sen. Debbie Stabenow and a law professor was sentenced Friday in federal court to five years of probation. The judge declined to send Daniel Frisiello to prison, as prosecutors had sought, because of concerns the 25-year-old man from Beverly, who is developmentally disabled, would not respond well to incarceration. But he stressed the sentence wasn't "lenient." "Do not underestimate how serious I am treating your crimes," Judge Nathaniel Gorton said to Frisiello as the dozens of his family members, friends and supporters who packed the court proceeding hugged, cried and sighed in relief. Frisiello was also ordered to serve his first year of probation in home confinement, and has been banned for the full five years from accessing the internet or sending mail without prior approval. Frisiello also won't be allowed to have a computer, tablet or other device with access to the internet. Frisiello, who pleaded guilty in October to sending the threatening letters, thanked Groton for not imprisoning him. The past year, he said, has been "hell" for his family. Frisiello's family, in a statement after the court appearance, said he "deeply regrets the fear and harm he caused and will work very hard to be a better person and citizen." Assistant U.S. Attorney Scott Garland, who had sought a three-year prison sentence, argued that Frisiello had carefully considered the letter writing campaign, which included 13 letters over three years. He researched the best addresses and took steps to avoid detection, like dropping them off at different mailboxes, Garland said. "This was not an impulsive thing," he said. "At every step, there was a chance for deliberation." Imposing only probation, Garland said, was akin to sending Frisiello back to the life he had before his arrest, which was largely spent at home on the internet. Frisiello lawyer's William Fick argued that prison would be physically and mentally harmful to his client, who he said has significant developmental issues from brain damage at birth, autism and anxiety disorder. Fick also argued probation is appropriately severe for a person with Frisiello's condition because it takes away what few opportunities he has to interact with society, such as going to work or spending time with family and friends outside the house. Acknowledging the nearly 90 letters of support written to the judge on Frisiello's behalf, Fick said it was "tragic" no one in his client's extensive support network intervened before his seemingly harmless obsession with writing letters to celebrities and other notable people took a dark turn. "He clearly felt like he wasn't being heard, so he became threatening," Fick said. Prosecutors say Frisiello sent a letter to Donald Trump Jr. that was opened in February by his now-estranged wife, Vanessa, at their New York City home. She called 911 and was briefly hospitalized after she reported she was coughing and felt nauseous. He also sent a white powder letter to Eric Trump during the 2016 presidential campaign that said his father must drop out of the race or the next letter wouldn't be fake. The substance in all of the letters turned out not to be hazardous. Other letter recipients included Stabenow, the Democratic U.S. senator from Michigan; Michele Dauber, a Stanford University law professor who promoted an effort to recall California judge Aaron Persky; and Sabato, a former underwear model and soap opera actor who is running for Congress in California as a Republican and spoke at the 2016 Republican National Convention. Hoaxes involving white powder have been common since anonymous letters laced with anthrax spores were sent to media companies and congressional offices days after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, killing five people and infecting 17 others. __ This story has been corrected to show that Daniel Frisielllo's lawyer is William Fick, not William Flick.

Supported by By The Associated Press BOSTON — A Massachusetts man who sent threatening letters with white powder to President Donald Trump's sons, Antonio Sabato Jr., Sen. Debbie Stabenow and a law professor was sentenced Friday in federal court to five years of probation. The judge declined to send Daniel Frisiello to prison, as prosecutors had sought, because of concerns the 25-year-old man from Beverly, who is developmentally disabled, would not respond well to incarceration. But he stressed the sentence wasn't "lenient." "Do not underestimate how serious I am treating your crimes," Judge Nathaniel Gorton said to Frisiello as the dozens of his family members, friends and supporters who packed the court proceeding hugged, cried and sighed in relief. Frisiello was also ordered to serve his first year of probation in home confinement, and has been banned for the full five years from accessing the internet or sending mail without prior approval. Frisiello also won't be allowed to have a computer, tablet or other device with access to the internet. Frisiello, who pleaded guilty in October to sending the threatening letters, thanked Groton for not imprisoning him. The past year, he said, has been "hell" for his family. Frisiello's family, in a statement after the court appearance, said he "deeply regrets the fear and harm he caused and will work very hard to be a better person and citizen." Assistant U.S. Attorney Scott Garland, who had sought a three-year prison sentence, argued that Frisiello had carefully considered the letter writing campaign, which included 13 letters over three years. He researched the best addresses and took steps to avoid detection, like dropping them off at different mailboxes, Garland said. "This was not an impulsive thing," he said. "At every step, there was a chance for deliberation." Imposing only probation, Garland said, was akin to sending Frisiello back to the life he had before his arrest, which was largely spent at home on the internet. Frisiello lawyer's William Fick argued that prison would be physically and mentally harmful to his client, who he said has significant developmental issues from brain damage at birth, autism and anxiety disorder. Fick also argued probation is appropriately severe for a person with Frisiello's condition because it takes away what few opportunities he has to interact with society, such as going to work or spending time with family and friends outside the house. Acknowledging the nearly 90 letters of support written to the judge on Frisiello's behalf, Fick said it was "tragic" no one in his client's extensive support network intervened before his seemingly harmless obsession with writing letters to celebrities and other notable people took a dark turn. "He clearly felt like he wasn't being heard, so he became threatening," Fick said. Prosecutors say Frisiello sent a letter to Donald Trump Jr. that was opened in February by his now-estranged wife, Vanessa, at their New York City home. She called 911 and was briefly hospitalized after she reported she was coughing and felt nauseous. He also sent a white powder letter to Eric Trump during the 2016 presidential campaign that said his father must drop out of the race or the next letter wouldn't be fake. The substance in all of the letters turned out not to be hazardous. Other letter recipients included Stabenow, the Democratic U.S. senator from Michigan; Michele Dauber, a Stanford University law professor who promoted an effort to recall California judge Aaron Persky; and Sabato, a former underwear model and soap opera actor who is running for Congress in California as a Republican and spoke at the 2016 Republican National Convention. Hoaxes involving white powder have been common since anonymous letters laced with anthrax spores were sent to media companies and congressional offices days after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, killing five people and infecting 17 others. __ This story has been corrected to show that Daniel Frisielllo's lawyer is William Fick, not William Flick.Supported by By Maggie Astor and Astead W. Herndon The new year has begun, and so has the nomination process for next year’s presidential election. But what do candidates actually do at this point, when the Iowa caucuses are still 13 months away? Democrats like Senator Elizabeth Warren, who just entered the race and plans to campaign in Iowa this weekend, will move quickly to try to build grass-roots support and raise money: two prerequisites for any candidates hoping to break out of what is likely to be a congested pack of contenders and position themselves well for big moments like the first Democratic candidates’ debate this June. [Read about Ms. Warren’s entry to the race and Iowa trip.] The Times talked to presidential campaign veterans, operatives and candidate surrogates about what the Democratic contenders will focus on in these early months. Few would offer predictions on which candidates would be successful, but they identified priorities that are critical in order to emerge as the party’s standard-bearer in 2020. Like it or not, the first focus of a new presidential campaign tends to be money. So-called exploratory committees, like the one Ms. Warren created Monday, are a vehicle to raise it. Given that more than a dozen Democrats may jump into the 2020 race, candidates who don’t establish themselves as potential front-runners in the next few months can get drowned out, and raising a lot of money early is one way to show a candidacy is viable. “Successful fund-raising is one of the messages that you want to have available to you as a candidate in Iowa, because it’s an indicator of the ability to sustain a campaign as long as is necessary,” said Jerry Crawford, who has led several Democrats’ Iowa operations. [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] The exact timing of Ms. Warren’s announcement — Dec. 31 — is significant. It means that in a few weeks, she will have to report her fund-raising totals for the fourth quarter of 2018, which will reveal how much she received on Day 1 in small-donor contributions — a key benchmark for popularity for Democrats in the nominating race. Like Ms. Warren, candidates often announce their campaigns at the end or the beginning of a quarter, and the choice is strategic: If you announce at the end of a quarter and raise a lot of money very quickly, you can report an impressive total right away and help cement yourself as a serious candidate. If you announce near the beginning of a quarter, you give yourself almost three months to build a respectable total before you have to disclose it. Another benefit of a full calendar year of campaigning is that it provides candidates with ample opportunity to test, refine or popularize new messages. Some Democrats already have signature taglines: Ms. Warren’s “Nevertheless, we persist,” or the Ohio Senator Sherrod Brown’s “the dignity of work.” Other candidates will be less decided and may try different messages to see what works. Laura Belin, a close Iowa caucus observer and author on the Bleeding Heartland blog, said it was important for candidates to make residents feel as if they are being courted and their concerns are being heard. This could mean tailoring a national message for a local audience, or being responsive to a particular moment that resonates with audiences. “With a field like this, I think there will be a lot of late deciders,” Ms. Belin said. “You can’t predict other events: Some people might stumble along the way. But it’s important to really find your message and appeal to people.” “We joke about how Iowa Democrats are like, ‘I can’t decide because I’ve only met this candidate twice,’ but there’s some truth to that and I feel like that myself. I think highly of a lot of people who are going to run,” she added. Repeated trips to Iowa can allow long-shot candidates to become better known among voters there, but top-tier candidates can also benefit from a sharpened message. Ms. Warren, for example, did not travel to Iowa before making her campaign announcement and will have to introduce herself anew to voters in America’s heartland. “She has a reputation of having a tremendous sense of humor, for example, but I don’t think that people in Iowa have seen that, and they need to,” Mr. Crawford said. “She needs to develop a sense of what Iowa is, what the people care about and are concerned about. I think she could do herself well to do some of those quieter conversations, sit-downs with Iowans on her first couple of trips here,” rather than big rallies. It takes a lot of people to get to the White House, and there are only so many who have experience running successful presidential campaigns. Nobody wants to start a campaign only to find that the best operatives are already committed to rival candidates. Especially in Iowa, where the caucuses demand intense on-the-ground mobilization, campaigns need a slew of organizers. John Delaney, a departing congressman from Maryland who has been running for the Democratic nomination since 2017, has about 20 paid staff members in Iowa and said he expected that to increase to 25, spread across eight field offices, by the end of January. He also has three staff members in New Hampshire and 15 to 20 at his new campaign headquarters in Maryland. Ms. Warren will undoubtedly be spending a lot of her time in the coming weeks building a staff at least that extensive, as will any other candidate who decides to enter the race early. Candidates must also use the coming year to introduce and differentiate themselves on policy grounds, experts said. Retail politics and interpersonal relationships can generate buzz, but in a crowded field, substance will count for just as much as style. Some candidates have already released baseline plans around issues such as tax policy or housing affordability, but 2019 is a time for details. “In a crowded field, what will be important is the clarity of your vision and your pathway that you show people,” Mr. Delaney said in an interview. “ I think what will differentiate the candidates is the person who can really convince people that they should have faith that my leadership can actually make this happen.” On a primary debate stage and in rooms with voters, a policy vision gives candidates an air of seriousness. Politically, it can also help a candidate shore up support among voters in more skeptical demographic groups. Ms. Warren, for example, drew praise for her focus on housing affordability, which she targeted at black voters, a key constituency in the Democratic primary. Other Democrats said they were looking to candidates like Senator Kamala Harris of California or Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey, to see if their policies will tap into more populist, anti-Wall Street themes. “Beyond Trump, every Democratic candidate will need to prove that they have a policy vision to address the deep inequalities of power and opportunity in America,” said Heather McGhee, the former president of Demos, the progressive political group. She said Ms. Warren had, to this point, led the pack on progressive policy. “Elizabeth Warren is the Democrat who has released the most comprehensive ideas about restructuring the corporate sector to reduce inequality,” she said. Every candidate has some sort of weakness or liability he or she needs to address, and those who enter the race early, like Ms. Warren, will want to try to get out ahead of it. Ms. Warren’s biggest liability, at this point, may be the DNA test she took in an effort to prove her claims of Native American ancestry. Her decision to release the test results angered many Native Americans, as well as progressive Democrats in her base, and some of her own advisers believe she needs a plan to repair the damage. So far, she has refused to apologize publicly, and she shrugged off a reporter’s question this week about the DNA test by saying she had “put it all out there” and people could see the information for themselves. Mr. Crawford of Iowa said, “If they’ve got challenging issues, like that one is for Senator Warren, I think first of all they need to be prepared to discuss it.” “They need to be very straightforward about it,” he added. Virtually all of the expected Democratic candidates have some issue, small or large, that they will have to confront if they run. For Joseph R. Biden Jr., it could be his actions during the Anita Hill hearings; for Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, her role in pushing Al Franken to resign from the Senate in response to sexual misconduct allegations; for Mr. Booker, his ties to Wall Street; for Ms. Harris, elements of her prosecutorial record in California. The coming weeks, before the campaign really gets underway, will be a good time to identify and even address those potential liabilities. Shane Goldmacher contributed reporting.   

Supported by By Maggie Astor and Astead W. Herndon The new year has begun, and so has the nomination process for next year’s presidential election. But what do candidates actually do at this point, when the Iowa caucuses are still 13 months away? Democrats like Senator Elizabeth Warren, who just entered the race and plans to campaign in Iowa this weekend, will move quickly to try to build grass-roots support and raise money: two prerequisites for any candidates hoping to break out of what is likely to be a congested pack of contenders and position themselves well for big moments like the first Democratic candidates’ debate this June. [Read about Ms. Warren’s entry to the race and Iowa trip.] The Times talked to presidential campaign veterans, operatives and candidate surrogates about what the Democratic contenders will focus on in these early months. Few would offer predictions on which candidates would be successful, but they identified priorities that are critical in order to emerge as the party’s standard-bearer in 2020. Like it or not, the first focus of a new presidential campaign tends to be money. So-called exploratory committees, like the one Ms. Warren created Monday, are a vehicle to raise it. Given that more than a dozen Democrats may jump into the 2020 race, candidates who don’t establish themselves as potential front-runners in the next few months can get drowned out, and raising a lot of money early is one way to show a candidacy is viable. “Successful fund-raising is one of the messages that you want to have available to you as a candidate in Iowa, because it’s an indicator of the ability to sustain a campaign as long as is necessary,” said Jerry Crawford, who has led several Democrats’ Iowa operations. [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] The exact timing of Ms. Warren’s announcement — Dec. 31 — is significant. It means that in a few weeks, she will have to report her fund-raising totals for the fourth quarter of 2018, which will reveal how much she received on Day 1 in small-donor contributions — a key benchmark for popularity for Democrats in the nominating race. Like Ms. Warren, candidates often announce their campaigns at the end or the beginning of a quarter, and the choice is strategic: If you announce at the end of a quarter and raise a lot of money very quickly, you can report an impressive total right away and help cement yourself as a serious candidate. If you announce near the beginning of a quarter, you give yourself almost three months to build a respectable total before you have to disclose it. Another benefit of a full calendar year of campaigning is that it provides candidates with ample opportunity to test, refine or popularize new messages. Some Democrats already have signature taglines: Ms. Warren’s “Nevertheless, we persist,” or the Ohio Senator Sherrod Brown’s “the dignity of work.” Other candidates will be less decided and may try different messages to see what works. Laura Belin, a close Iowa caucus observer and author on the Bleeding Heartland blog, said it was important for candidates to make residents feel as if they are being courted and their concerns are being heard. This could mean tailoring a national message for a local audience, or being responsive to a particular moment that resonates with audiences. “With a field like this, I think there will be a lot of late deciders,” Ms. Belin said. “You can’t predict other events: Some people might stumble along the way. But it’s important to really find your message and appeal to people.” “We joke about how Iowa Democrats are like, ‘I can’t decide because I’ve only met this candidate twice,’ but there’s some truth to that and I feel like that myself. I think highly of a lot of people who are going to run,” she added. Repeated trips to Iowa can allow long-shot candidates to become better known among voters there, but top-tier candidates can also benefit from a sharpened message. Ms. Warren, for example, did not travel to Iowa before making her campaign announcement and will have to introduce herself anew to voters in America’s heartland. “She has a reputation of having a tremendous sense of humor, for example, but I don’t think that people in Iowa have seen that, and they need to,” Mr. Crawford said. “She needs to develop a sense of what Iowa is, what the people care about and are concerned about. I think she could do herself well to do some of those quieter conversations, sit-downs with Iowans on her first couple of trips here,” rather than big rallies. It takes a lot of people to get to the White House, and there are only so many who have experience running successful presidential campaigns. Nobody wants to start a campaign only to find that the best operatives are already committed to rival candidates. Especially in Iowa, where the caucuses demand intense on-the-ground mobilization, campaigns need a slew of organizers. John Delaney, a departing congressman from Maryland who has been running for the Democratic nomination since 2017, has about 20 paid staff members in Iowa and said he expected that to increase to 25, spread across eight field offices, by the end of January. He also has three staff members in New Hampshire and 15 to 20 at his new campaign headquarters in Maryland. Ms. Warren will undoubtedly be spending a lot of her time in the coming weeks building a staff at least that extensive, as will any other candidate who decides to enter the race early. Candidates must also use the coming year to introduce and differentiate themselves on policy grounds, experts said. Retail politics and interpersonal relationships can generate buzz, but in a crowded field, substance will count for just as much as style. Some candidates have already released baseline plans around issues such as tax policy or housing affordability, but 2019 is a time for details. “In a crowded field, what will be important is the clarity of your vision and your pathway that you show people,” Mr. Delaney said in an interview. “ I think what will differentiate the candidates is the person who can really convince people that they should have faith that my leadership can actually make this happen.” On a primary debate stage and in rooms with voters, a policy vision gives candidates an air of seriousness. Politically, it can also help a candidate shore up support among voters in more skeptical demographic groups. Ms. Warren, for example, drew praise for her focus on housing affordability, which she targeted at black voters, a key constituency in the Democratic primary. Other Democrats said they were looking to candidates like Senator Kamala Harris of California or Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey, to see if their policies will tap into more populist, anti-Wall Street themes. “Beyond Trump, every Democratic candidate will need to prove that they have a policy vision to address the deep inequalities of power and opportunity in America,” said Heather McGhee, the former president of Demos, the progressive political group. She said Ms. Warren had, to this point, led the pack on progressive policy. “Elizabeth Warren is the Democrat who has released the most comprehensive ideas about restructuring the corporate sector to reduce inequality,” she said. Every candidate has some sort of weakness or liability he or she needs to address, and those who enter the race early, like Ms. Warren, will want to try to get out ahead of it. Ms. Warren’s biggest liability, at this point, may be the DNA test she took in an effort to prove her claims of Native American ancestry. Her decision to release the test results angered many Native Americans, as well as progressive Democrats in her base, and some of her own advisers believe she needs a plan to repair the damage. So far, she has refused to apologize publicly, and she shrugged off a reporter’s question this week about the DNA test by saying she had “put it all out there” and people could see the information for themselves. Mr. Crawford of Iowa said, “If they’ve got challenging issues, like that one is for Senator Warren, I think first of all they need to be prepared to discuss it.” “They need to be very straightforward about it,” he added. Virtually all of the expected Democratic candidates have some issue, small or large, that they will have to confront if they run. For Joseph R. Biden Jr., it could be his actions during the Anita Hill hearings; for Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, her role in pushing Al Franken to resign from the Senate in response to sexual misconduct allegations; for Mr. Booker, his ties to Wall Street; for Ms. Harris, elements of her prosecutorial record in California. The coming weeks, before the campaign really gets underway, will be a good time to identify and even address those potential liabilities. Shane Goldmacher contributed reporting.   Supported by By Astead W. Herndon Beto O’Rourke, the charismatic Texas Democrat and former member of the House of Representatives, announced his presidential campaign in a video on Thursday. The three-minute clip quickly racked up thousands of shares, with some viewers excited by the prospect of his out-of-nowhere political rise. But others were put off by how his campaign deployed an age-old trope in American political theater — the silent, supportive wife.  Throughout the video, Mr. O’Rourke’s wife, Amy, sat quietly by her husband’s side, periodically grasping his hand as he outlined his campaign vision.  She occasionally smiled. And gazed. Mr. O’Rourke, 46, has repeatedly cast his presidential bid as a sign of generational change, attempting to draw a contrast between himself and President Trump, who is 72.  But several authors, business leaders and scholars who focus on gender studies and discrimination said there was nothing new or progressive about the power dynamics projected in the video.  Throughout the 1980s, Nancy Reagan and Barbara Bush could be found next to their presidential husbands, often silently supporting them in big moments. More recently, buoyed by Hillary Clinton’s active role in her husband’s campaigns, many elected officials have leaned on their partners as high-profile surrogates.  In the current presidential race, Jane Sanders, wife of Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, enjoyed a prominent behind-the-scenes role and gave a speech at his initial campaign rally. Connie Schultz, the newspaper columnist and wife of Senator Sherrod Brown of Ohio, has a fan base all her own, and was set to be one of the most popular figures on this year’s campaign trail before Mr. Brown declined to seek the Oval Office.  Mr. O’Rourke’s video struck some observers as especially out of place in a presidential race in which more Democratic women are running for president than ever before. Among several of these women, the husbands are rarely seen.  [Check out our tracker of the 2020 Democratic candidate field.] On his first day campaigning, in a seemingly offhand comment, Mr. O’Rourke joked about his wife, saying she was raising their children, “sometimes with my help.” His comment elicited both laughter and derision. He later said he would not make that comment again, calling it “ham handed,” and also acknowledged that he had “enjoyed white privilege.”  This was not the first time Mr. O’Rourke had been accused of appearing to revel in his advantages as a white male in an increasingly diverse Democratic Party.  As he announced his campaign, complete with a profile in Vanity Fair in which he hinted he was “born to” run for president, detractors pointed out that prominent black Democrats who lost their 2018 campaigns — including Stacey Abrams in Georgia and Andrew Gillum in Florida — are not running for president.  For weeks before his presidential announcement, Mr. O’Rourke traveled across the country as he wrestled privately with whether to run and wrote musings on his Medium account. This drew jokes from several comedians and prominent social media voices, who compared his public agonizing with the stereotypical tendency for men to refuse to commit to relationships — particularly romantic ones.   Meghean Felling, Sergio Peçanha and Anjali Singhvi contributed. Astead W. Herndon is a national political reporter based in New York. He was previously a Washington-based political reporter and a City Hall reporter for The Boston Globe.  @AsteadWesley 

Supported by By Astead W. Herndon Beto O’Rourke, the charismatic Texas Democrat and former member of the House of Representatives, announced his presidential campaign in a video on Thursday. The three-minute clip quickly racked up thousands of shares, with some viewers excited by the prospect of his out-of-nowhere political rise. But others were put off by how his campaign deployed an age-old trope in American political theater — the silent, supportive wife.  Throughout the video, Mr. O’Rourke’s wife, Amy, sat quietly by her husband’s side, periodically grasping his hand as he outlined his campaign vision.  She occasionally smiled. And gazed. Mr. O’Rourke, 46, has repeatedly cast his presidential bid as a sign of generational change, attempting to draw a contrast between himself and President Trump, who is 72.  But several authors, business leaders and scholars who focus on gender studies and discrimination said there was nothing new or progressive about the power dynamics projected in the video.  Throughout the 1980s, Nancy Reagan and Barbara Bush could be found next to their presidential husbands, often silently supporting them in big moments. More recently, buoyed by Hillary Clinton’s active role in her husband’s campaigns, many elected officials have leaned on their partners as high-profile surrogates.  In the current presidential race, Jane Sanders, wife of Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, enjoyed a prominent behind-the-scenes role and gave a speech at his initial campaign rally. Connie Schultz, the newspaper columnist and wife of Senator Sherrod Brown of Ohio, has a fan base all her own, and was set to be one of the most popular figures on this year’s campaign trail before Mr. Brown declined to seek the Oval Office.  Mr. O’Rourke’s video struck some observers as especially out of place in a presidential race in which more Democratic women are running for president than ever before. Among several of these women, the husbands are rarely seen.  [Check out our tracker of the 2020 Democratic candidate field.] On his first day campaigning, in a seemingly offhand comment, Mr. O’Rourke joked about his wife, saying she was raising their children, “sometimes with my help.” His comment elicited both laughter and derision. He later said he would not make that comment again, calling it “ham handed,” and also acknowledged that he had “enjoyed white privilege.”  This was not the first time Mr. O’Rourke had been accused of appearing to revel in his advantages as a white male in an increasingly diverse Democratic Party.  As he announced his campaign, complete with a profile in Vanity Fair in which he hinted he was “born to” run for president, detractors pointed out that prominent black Democrats who lost their 2018 campaigns — including Stacey Abrams in Georgia and Andrew Gillum in Florida — are not running for president.  For weeks before his presidential announcement, Mr. O’Rourke traveled across the country as he wrestled privately with whether to run and wrote musings on his Medium account. This drew jokes from several comedians and prominent social media voices, who compared his public agonizing with the stereotypical tendency for men to refuse to commit to relationships — particularly romantic ones.   Meghean Felling, Sergio Peçanha and Anjali Singhvi contributed. Astead W. Herndon is a national political reporter based in New York. He was previously a Washington-based political reporter and a City Hall reporter for The Boston Globe.  @AsteadWesley Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — U.S. Democratic presidential contender Bernie Sanders released 10 years of tax returns on Monday, providing details of his growing status as a millionaire fueled by a sharp jump in income from book royalties since his losing 2016 White House run. Sanders, a U.S. senator who routinely rails against the "millionaires and billionaires" he says have rigged the system to protect their wealth and power, had an adjusted gross income of $561,293 in 2018, $1,131,925 in 2017 and $1,062,626 in 2016, the returns showed. He augmented his Senate salary with book royalties in each of those years, particularly in 2016 and 2017 when he made more than $800,000 each year in royalties. Sanders has published three books since the start of his first White House run, including bestsellers "Our Revolution" and "Where We Go From Here." In 2014, the year before he launched his first presidential campaign, Sanders had an adjusted gross income of $205,271. Sanders had faced mounting pressure to release his taxes, with critics saying the democratic socialist's millionaire status undercut his populist economic message. He has made no apologies for his financial well-being. "It comes from a book I wrote, pretty good book," Sanders told a Fox News Channel town hall on Monday. "If anyone thinks that I should apologize for writing a best-selling book, I'm sorry, I'm not going to do it." The interest in presidential contenders and their taxes has jumped since Republican President Donald Trump shattered decades of tradition during the 2016 campaign by refusing to release his returns - a stance he has continued since entering the White House. Several in the growing field of Democratic 2020 contenders, including Senators Kirsten Gillibrand, Amy Klobuchar, Kamala Harris and Elizabeth Warren, and Governor Jay Inslee of Washington, have released their 2018 returns in recent weeks. Beto O'Rourke, the former congressman from Texas, released 10 years of his returns on Monday night. In the most recent year released, 2017, he had an adjusted gross income of $366,455. He promised to release his 2018 return as soon as possible. Most other Democratic contenders have pledged to release their tax returns soon. CHIDES TRUMP But the tax question had become more pressing recently for Sanders, who only released one year of returns during his 2016 campaign, as he moved into a strong early position in polls and fundraising among Democrats seeking the 2020 nomination to challenge Trump. Noting that Trump watches the Fox News Channel, Sanders took the opportunity to chide the president for his failure to release his returns. "Hey President Trump, my wife and I just released 10 years - please do the same," he said during the town hall. Sanders faced criticism for only releasing his 2014 returns during his 2016 Democratic primary battle with Hillary Clinton, a millionaire whom he often derided for giving paid speeches to Wall Street. The tax returns released on Monday showed Sanders paid a 26 percent effective tax rate on his adjusted gross income in 2018. His effective tax rates in 2016 and 2017, his other high-earning years, were 35 percent and 30 percent, respectively. As part of his policy agenda, Sanders has proposed higher taxes on top earners and a big expansion of the estate tax, lowering the threshold where it kicks in to $3.5 million from $11 million, and placing a 77 percent tax rate on the portion of estates worth more than $1 billion.  (Reporting by John Whitesides; Editing by Peter Cooney)

Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — U.S. Democratic presidential contender Bernie Sanders released 10 years of tax returns on Monday, providing details of his growing status as a millionaire fueled by a sharp jump in income from book royalties since his losing 2016 White House run. Sanders, a U.S. senator who routinely rails against the "millionaires and billionaires" he says have rigged the system to protect their wealth and power, had an adjusted gross income of $561,293 in 2018, $1,131,925 in 2017 and $1,062,626 in 2016, the returns showed. He augmented his Senate salary with book royalties in each of those years, particularly in 2016 and 2017 when he made more than $800,000 each year in royalties. Sanders has published three books since the start of his first White House run, including bestsellers "Our Revolution" and "Where We Go From Here." In 2014, the year before he launched his first presidential campaign, Sanders had an adjusted gross income of $205,271. Sanders had faced mounting pressure to release his taxes, with critics saying the democratic socialist's millionaire status undercut his populist economic message. He has made no apologies for his financial well-being. "It comes from a book I wrote, pretty good book," Sanders told a Fox News Channel town hall on Monday. "If anyone thinks that I should apologize for writing a best-selling book, I'm sorry, I'm not going to do it." The interest in presidential contenders and their taxes has jumped since Republican President Donald Trump shattered decades of tradition during the 2016 campaign by refusing to release his returns - a stance he has continued since entering the White House. Several in the growing field of Democratic 2020 contenders, including Senators Kirsten Gillibrand, Amy Klobuchar, Kamala Harris and Elizabeth Warren, and Governor Jay Inslee of Washington, have released their 2018 returns in recent weeks. Beto O'Rourke, the former congressman from Texas, released 10 years of his returns on Monday night. In the most recent year released, 2017, he had an adjusted gross income of $366,455. He promised to release his 2018 return as soon as possible. Most other Democratic contenders have pledged to release their tax returns soon. CHIDES TRUMP But the tax question had become more pressing recently for Sanders, who only released one year of returns during his 2016 campaign, as he moved into a strong early position in polls and fundraising among Democrats seeking the 2020 nomination to challenge Trump. Noting that Trump watches the Fox News Channel, Sanders took the opportunity to chide the president for his failure to release his returns. "Hey President Trump, my wife and I just released 10 years - please do the same," he said during the town hall. Sanders faced criticism for only releasing his 2014 returns during his 2016 Democratic primary battle with Hillary Clinton, a millionaire whom he often derided for giving paid speeches to Wall Street. The tax returns released on Monday showed Sanders paid a 26 percent effective tax rate on his adjusted gross income in 2018. His effective tax rates in 2016 and 2017, his other high-earning years, were 35 percent and 30 percent, respectively. As part of his policy agenda, Sanders has proposed higher taxes on top earners and a big expansion of the estate tax, lowering the threshold where it kicks in to $3.5 million from $11 million, and placing a 77 percent tax rate on the portion of estates worth more than $1 billion.  (Reporting by John Whitesides; Editing by Peter Cooney)Supported by By Astead W. Herndon Senator Elizabeth Warren on Monday escalated her presidential campaign’s battle against big money in politics, announcing that her bid for the Democratic nomination will forgo traditional fund-raising methods meant to cultivate a candidate’s relationships with the wealthy. The Massachusetts senator said she would no longer hold the private fund-raisers and one-on-one meetings with big donors that have become typical for Democrats and Republicans. “That means no fancy receptions or big money fund-raisers only with people who can write the big checks,” Ms. Warren said in a morning email to supporters. “It means that wealthy donors won’t be able to purchase better seats or one-on-one time with me at our events. And it means I won’t be doing ‘call time,’ which is when candidates take hours to call wealthy donors to ask for their support.” Ms. Warren made the announcement as the Democratic primary to oppose President Trump’s re-election bid begins to take shape, and candidates in the crowded field are trying to find ways to distinguish themselves. Ms. Warren, who rose to prominence as a harsh critic of big corporations and unrestrained capitalism, has attempted to push the field in that direction, announcing expansive, liberal ideas on money and wealth more than a year before the first votes are cast. They include a recently announced plan for universal child care and a tax on the wealthiest Americans. [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] Since Ms. Warren was unlikely to receive the majority of support from big donors, the announcement’s most important function could be its political impact. In a crowded field where the slightest factor could influence a voter’s decision, Ms. Warren is seeking to separate herself from other Democrats in the race, including Senator Kamala Harris of California and Senator Kirsten Gillibrand of New York, who have both benefited from high-priced fund-raising events and could now be under more pressure to disavow them. “The wealthy and well-connected have been taught by politicians to expect that more money buys more access — they’ve done it for generations,” Ms. Warren said in her email, “and it too often closes out women and communities of color. We have to do things differently.” [Who’s in, who’s out and who’s still thinking: We’re tracking the Democratic candidates.] The announcement comes as Ms. Warren experiences fund-raising struggles of her own. Last week, as Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont — an ardent progressive like Ms. Warren — boasted a historic fund-raising haul in the first 24 hours after his announcement, Ms. Warren sent multiple emails to her supporters warning them of lagging totals. In the email, which had the subject line “We’re falling short,” Ms. Warren seemed to acknowledge that her campaign would never match the money raised by those of her rivals. “We will be outraised. We will be outspent,” she said. “We just can’t let ourselves be drowned out.”   

Supported by By Astead W. Herndon Senator Elizabeth Warren on Monday escalated her presidential campaign’s battle against big money in politics, announcing that her bid for the Democratic nomination will forgo traditional fund-raising methods meant to cultivate a candidate’s relationships with the wealthy. The Massachusetts senator said she would no longer hold the private fund-raisers and one-on-one meetings with big donors that have become typical for Democrats and Republicans. “That means no fancy receptions or big money fund-raisers only with people who can write the big checks,” Ms. Warren said in a morning email to supporters. “It means that wealthy donors won’t be able to purchase better seats or one-on-one time with me at our events. And it means I won’t be doing ‘call time,’ which is when candidates take hours to call wealthy donors to ask for their support.” Ms. Warren made the announcement as the Democratic primary to oppose President Trump’s re-election bid begins to take shape, and candidates in the crowded field are trying to find ways to distinguish themselves. Ms. Warren, who rose to prominence as a harsh critic of big corporations and unrestrained capitalism, has attempted to push the field in that direction, announcing expansive, liberal ideas on money and wealth more than a year before the first votes are cast. They include a recently announced plan for universal child care and a tax on the wealthiest Americans. [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] Since Ms. Warren was unlikely to receive the majority of support from big donors, the announcement’s most important function could be its political impact. In a crowded field where the slightest factor could influence a voter’s decision, Ms. Warren is seeking to separate herself from other Democrats in the race, including Senator Kamala Harris of California and Senator Kirsten Gillibrand of New York, who have both benefited from high-priced fund-raising events and could now be under more pressure to disavow them. “The wealthy and well-connected have been taught by politicians to expect that more money buys more access — they’ve done it for generations,” Ms. Warren said in her email, “and it too often closes out women and communities of color. We have to do things differently.” [Who’s in, who’s out and who’s still thinking: We’re tracking the Democratic candidates.] The announcement comes as Ms. Warren experiences fund-raising struggles of her own. Last week, as Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont — an ardent progressive like Ms. Warren — boasted a historic fund-raising haul in the first 24 hours after his announcement, Ms. Warren sent multiple emails to her supporters warning them of lagging totals. In the email, which had the subject line “We’re falling short,” Ms. Warren seemed to acknowledge that her campaign would never match the money raised by those of her rivals. “We will be outraised. We will be outspent,” she said. “We just can’t let ourselves be drowned out.”   Supported by By Nicholas Fandos and Maggie Haberman WASHINGTON — Staring down a looming prison sentence for lying to Congress and other crimes, Michael D. Cohen arrived on Capitol Hill last week declaring that he was finally ready to tell the truth about his decade of work alongside President Trump. “I have lied,” Mr. Cohen, the president’s former lawyer, told the House Oversight and Reform Committee at the outset of an explosive public hearing. “But I am not a liar.” At least for now, Mr. Cohen’s success in clearing up his past actions, over nearly a week of public and private testimony on Capitol Hill, has become more muddled. Mr. Cohen laid out a detailed case, complete with documentary evidence, that Mr. Trump fully participated in a fraudulent scheme during the closing weeks of his presidential campaign to buy the silence of a pornographic film actress who claimed they had an affair. But he left Washington on Wednesday having, however inadvertently, also handed his Republican critics just what they were looking for: fresh material they could weaponize to try to undermine the credibility of that larger account. They wasted little time in seizing it. Mr. Trump’s legal team and Republicans on Capitol Hill have in recent days accused Mr. Cohen of changing key details of his stories — particularly about a possible job in the White House and a possible presidential pardon — to his benefit, and of seeking to profit off his notoriety. Mr. Trump himself picked up on one of their points Thursday afternoon. Mr. Cohen’s allies have brushed off the criticism as little more than distractions, and suggested that the release of additional testimony he gave in private will clear him. Still, the conflicting and disputed claims underscore Mr. Cohen’s flaws as a witness, at least in the version of investigations being litigated publicly by Congress. “If today’s answer is different than yesterday’s answer, he just gets a reset, and says now I’m telling you the truth?” said Senator Richard M. Burr, Republican of North Carolina and the chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, which also privately grilled Mr. Cohen last week. “Prove it.” All indications remain, however, that Mr. Cohen has proved to be a valuable witness for federal prosecutors working for the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, who have vouched for his truthfulness, and the Southern District of New York, who appear to have built a case at least in part around his accounts. In his public testimony before the House Oversight Committee last week, Mr. Cohen emphatically denied that he had ever wanted a White House job or a presidential pardon. “I did not want to go to the White House,” Mr. Cohen asserted under questioning. But while he was still seated at the table in the hearing room, one of the president’s sons, Eric Trump, took to Twitter to dispute one of the claims. “Michael was lobbying EVERYONE to be ‘Chief of Staff,’” he wrote. “It was the biggest joke in the campaign and around the office. Did he just perjure himself again?” Other members of the 2016 Trump campaign backed him up. Mr. Cohen was just as adamant that he had not sought a pardon from Mr. Trump. “I have never asked for, nor would I accept, a pardon from Mr. Trump,” he said at the hearing. A week after that testimony, though, Mr. Cohen’s lawyer, Lanny J. Davis, told The Wall Street Journal that Mr. Cohen had directed his former lawyer, Stephen Ryan, to inquire about the possibility of a pardon with Mr. Trump’s lawyers. Mr. Davis maintained that there was no discrepancy between that statement and Mr. Cohen’s testimony, insisting that his client had given those instructions only after the Trump team had “dangled” a possible pardon while they were all part of a shared defense. Mr. Davis said that Mr. Cohen was referring in his testimony to the period after early July 2018, when the president’s former fixer split from his old boss. This time, it was Mr. Trump’s eldest son, Donald Trump Jr., who pounced. “So Cohen’s lawyer is admitting that Cohen committed perjury just last week when he said he NEVER sought a pardon?” the president’s son, who of the Trump children was the closest to Mr. Cohen, posted on Twitter. “Just making sure we are all on the same page here. CC: DOJ.” Republicans in Congress, who conspicuously sought at the hearings to discredit Mr. Cohen rather than defend the president, quickly sought to document what they claimed were inconsistencies. Two of the Oversight Committee’s top Republicans, Representatives Jim Jordan of Ohio and Mark Meadows of North Carolina, referred Mr. Cohen to the Justice Department for possible prosecution for perjury. Mr. Cohen’s testimony, they wrote, had been “a spectacular and brazen attempt to knowingly and willfully testify falsely and fictitiously to numerous material facts.” They documented what they said were six possible material misstatements by Mr. Cohen during the hearing, and on Thursday added Mr. Cohen’s statements about pardons to the list. “As I warned before Mr. Cohen’s appearance before the Oversight Committee, relying on an admitted liar to attack the president is beneath the dignity of the People’s House,” Mr. Jordan said in a statement on Thursday. On Twitter, he asked the committee’s chairman, Representative Elijah E. Cummings, Democrat of Maryland, to take the claims seriously. Democrats have been careful to qualify that they will need additional testimony and evidence to corroborate some of Mr. Cohen’s claims. But they have dismissed Republicans’ accusations as simple partisanship. “I don’t think people should jump to conclusions until they have a chance to review all the evidence, including the testimony,” Representative Raja Krishnamoorthi of Illinois, a Democratic member of the Oversight and Intelligence Committees. People close to Mr. Cohen said that he had been expecting Republicans to attack his truthfulness. Mr. Davis said in an interview that what Mr. Trump and his allies were doing was reminiscent of his own days working as a counsel in the Clinton White House during congressional investigations led by Republicans. In this case, he said, the goal is distracting from the fact that the president was reimbursing Mr. Cohen. “What we would do is focus on a little trip-up, or pebble or something,” Mr. Davis said, with the intention of getting “everybody to talk about it so the big picture is obscured.” “When we were facing a serious media storm,” he said, “we would do everything we could to change the subject to something trivial.” The bigger picture, Mr. Davis said, “is we have proven beyond any doubt that the president of the United States committed a felony by writing those checks.” There were other public statements by Mr. Cohen under scrutiny as well. Mr. Cohen testified in public that White House lawyers, including Jay Sekulow, had edited the false statement he delivered to Congress in 2017 about a proposed Trump Tower project in Moscow during the 2016 presidential campaign. “There were several changes that were made including how we were going to handle that message, which was — the message of course being the length of time that the Trump Tower Moscow project stayed and remained alive,” he said. Mr. Cohen shared drafts of the statement and other documents with the intelligence committees on Wednesday that he said supported that public claim. But on Thursday, Mr. Davis confirmed to CNN that Mr. Cohen had in fact written the false line. Others familiar with discussions that took place at the time of Mr. Cohen’s original testimony said that his lawyers approved all of the Trump legal team’s proposals. These people added that the Trump lawyers had no indication at the time that the dates cited by Mr. Cohen were inaccurate. Nicholas Fandos reported from Washington, and Maggie Haberman from New York. Emily Cochrane contributed reporting from Washington. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.

Supported by By Nicholas Fandos and Maggie Haberman WASHINGTON — Staring down a looming prison sentence for lying to Congress and other crimes, Michael D. Cohen arrived on Capitol Hill last week declaring that he was finally ready to tell the truth about his decade of work alongside President Trump. “I have lied,” Mr. Cohen, the president’s former lawyer, told the House Oversight and Reform Committee at the outset of an explosive public hearing. “But I am not a liar.” At least for now, Mr. Cohen’s success in clearing up his past actions, over nearly a week of public and private testimony on Capitol Hill, has become more muddled. Mr. Cohen laid out a detailed case, complete with documentary evidence, that Mr. Trump fully participated in a fraudulent scheme during the closing weeks of his presidential campaign to buy the silence of a pornographic film actress who claimed they had an affair. But he left Washington on Wednesday having, however inadvertently, also handed his Republican critics just what they were looking for: fresh material they could weaponize to try to undermine the credibility of that larger account. They wasted little time in seizing it. Mr. Trump’s legal team and Republicans on Capitol Hill have in recent days accused Mr. Cohen of changing key details of his stories — particularly about a possible job in the White House and a possible presidential pardon — to his benefit, and of seeking to profit off his notoriety. Mr. Trump himself picked up on one of their points Thursday afternoon. Mr. Cohen’s allies have brushed off the criticism as little more than distractions, and suggested that the release of additional testimony he gave in private will clear him. Still, the conflicting and disputed claims underscore Mr. Cohen’s flaws as a witness, at least in the version of investigations being litigated publicly by Congress. “If today’s answer is different than yesterday’s answer, he just gets a reset, and says now I’m telling you the truth?” said Senator Richard M. Burr, Republican of North Carolina and the chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, which also privately grilled Mr. Cohen last week. “Prove it.” All indications remain, however, that Mr. Cohen has proved to be a valuable witness for federal prosecutors working for the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, who have vouched for his truthfulness, and the Southern District of New York, who appear to have built a case at least in part around his accounts. In his public testimony before the House Oversight Committee last week, Mr. Cohen emphatically denied that he had ever wanted a White House job or a presidential pardon. “I did not want to go to the White House,” Mr. Cohen asserted under questioning. But while he was still seated at the table in the hearing room, one of the president’s sons, Eric Trump, took to Twitter to dispute one of the claims. “Michael was lobbying EVERYONE to be ‘Chief of Staff,’” he wrote. “It was the biggest joke in the campaign and around the office. Did he just perjure himself again?” Other members of the 2016 Trump campaign backed him up. Mr. Cohen was just as adamant that he had not sought a pardon from Mr. Trump. “I have never asked for, nor would I accept, a pardon from Mr. Trump,” he said at the hearing. A week after that testimony, though, Mr. Cohen’s lawyer, Lanny J. Davis, told The Wall Street Journal that Mr. Cohen had directed his former lawyer, Stephen Ryan, to inquire about the possibility of a pardon with Mr. Trump’s lawyers. Mr. Davis maintained that there was no discrepancy between that statement and Mr. Cohen’s testimony, insisting that his client had given those instructions only after the Trump team had “dangled” a possible pardon while they were all part of a shared defense. Mr. Davis said that Mr. Cohen was referring in his testimony to the period after early July 2018, when the president’s former fixer split from his old boss. This time, it was Mr. Trump’s eldest son, Donald Trump Jr., who pounced. “So Cohen’s lawyer is admitting that Cohen committed perjury just last week when he said he NEVER sought a pardon?” the president’s son, who of the Trump children was the closest to Mr. Cohen, posted on Twitter. “Just making sure we are all on the same page here. CC: DOJ.” Republicans in Congress, who conspicuously sought at the hearings to discredit Mr. Cohen rather than defend the president, quickly sought to document what they claimed were inconsistencies. Two of the Oversight Committee’s top Republicans, Representatives Jim Jordan of Ohio and Mark Meadows of North Carolina, referred Mr. Cohen to the Justice Department for possible prosecution for perjury. Mr. Cohen’s testimony, they wrote, had been “a spectacular and brazen attempt to knowingly and willfully testify falsely and fictitiously to numerous material facts.” They documented what they said were six possible material misstatements by Mr. Cohen during the hearing, and on Thursday added Mr. Cohen’s statements about pardons to the list. “As I warned before Mr. Cohen’s appearance before the Oversight Committee, relying on an admitted liar to attack the president is beneath the dignity of the People’s House,” Mr. Jordan said in a statement on Thursday. On Twitter, he asked the committee’s chairman, Representative Elijah E. Cummings, Democrat of Maryland, to take the claims seriously. Democrats have been careful to qualify that they will need additional testimony and evidence to corroborate some of Mr. Cohen’s claims. But they have dismissed Republicans’ accusations as simple partisanship. “I don’t think people should jump to conclusions until they have a chance to review all the evidence, including the testimony,” Representative Raja Krishnamoorthi of Illinois, a Democratic member of the Oversight and Intelligence Committees. People close to Mr. Cohen said that he had been expecting Republicans to attack his truthfulness. Mr. Davis said in an interview that what Mr. Trump and his allies were doing was reminiscent of his own days working as a counsel in the Clinton White House during congressional investigations led by Republicans. In this case, he said, the goal is distracting from the fact that the president was reimbursing Mr. Cohen. “What we would do is focus on a little trip-up, or pebble or something,” Mr. Davis said, with the intention of getting “everybody to talk about it so the big picture is obscured.” “When we were facing a serious media storm,” he said, “we would do everything we could to change the subject to something trivial.” The bigger picture, Mr. Davis said, “is we have proven beyond any doubt that the president of the United States committed a felony by writing those checks.” There were other public statements by Mr. Cohen under scrutiny as well. Mr. Cohen testified in public that White House lawyers, including Jay Sekulow, had edited the false statement he delivered to Congress in 2017 about a proposed Trump Tower project in Moscow during the 2016 presidential campaign. “There were several changes that were made including how we were going to handle that message, which was — the message of course being the length of time that the Trump Tower Moscow project stayed and remained alive,” he said. Mr. Cohen shared drafts of the statement and other documents with the intelligence committees on Wednesday that he said supported that public claim. But on Thursday, Mr. Davis confirmed to CNN that Mr. Cohen had in fact written the false line. Others familiar with discussions that took place at the time of Mr. Cohen’s original testimony said that his lawyers approved all of the Trump legal team’s proposals. These people added that the Trump lawyers had no indication at the time that the dates cited by Mr. Cohen were inaccurate. Nicholas Fandos reported from Washington, and Maggie Haberman from New York. Emily Cochrane contributed reporting from Washington. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — Special Counsel Robert Mueller's probe of Russian interference in U.S. politics is over, but prosecutors are investigating two prominent Washington lobbyists for their work for the former pro-Russian government of Ukraine, according to three sources close to the probe. In a sign that evidence from Mueller's 22-month investigation may yet ensnare more prominent Washington figures, federal prosecutors in Washington cited a former U.S. congressman "working for the government of Ukraine" in charges filed Thursday against former Obama administration official Greg Craig. Craig pleaded not guilty on Friday to lobbying violations and making false statements.  The former congressman is not named in Craig's indictment, but other filings by his former law firm cite identical work done for the firm by Vin Weber, a lobbyist with Mercury Public Affairs, who was a U.S. representative from Minnesota from 1981 to 1993.  Weber disclosed his work for a Ukrainian think tank, but he did not register as a foreign agent for the government of Ukraine under a the 1938 Foreign Agents Registration Act (FARA), which would have required him to spell out his activity in detail, according to a Reuters review of lobbying records. The Department of Justice is stepping up FARA enforcement after decades of inactivity. Mueller's investigation has not led to criminal conspiracy charges against Trump or his former associates, but it has exposed previously hidden foreign lobbying activity by some of Washington's most prominent lobbyists and prompted a flurry of new registrations since 2017. U.S. Attorney General William Barr is expected to release a redacted version of Mueller's findings next week. Three sources familiar with the investigation said federal prosecutors in Manhattan are examining work done for Ukraine by both Weber and Tony Podesta, brother of John Podesta, a top official of former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton's 2016 Democratic presidential campaign and a former White House adviser.  A spokesperson for Weber and for Mercury declined to comment. Tony Podesta also declined to comment.  The FARA crackdown has factored in cases against Craig, Craig's former law firm Skadden Arps and Paul Manafort, the former Trump campaign chairman now serving a 7-1/2 year prison sentence for lobbying and financial crimes. Other lobbyists have rushed to comply with the law. As of April, 446 separate entities registered with the Justice Department, up from 387 at the end of 2016.  Tony Podesta disclosed his lobbying work for a Brussels-based think tank, the European Centre for a Modern Ukraine, to Congress. But he did not register with the Justice Department as a foreign agent for the government of Ukraine. Podesta's work for the Ukrainian government came to light in 2017 after Mueller's team charged Manafort with lobbying violations. Those revelations prompted Podesta to step down in October 2017 from his Podesta Associates lobbying firm, which collapsed shortly after. Sources familiar with the investigation said that investigations into Ukraine-related lobbying by Craig, Podesta and Weber were all initially being pursued by the Manhattan-based U.S. Attorney's office for the Southern District of New York, but the probe related to Craig was transferred to federal prosecutors in Washington. Craig denies misleading the Justice Department about his activity in Ukraine, saying in a statement on Thursday that the effort to prosecute him was "unprecedented and unjustified."  According to the indictment, Craig was hired to write a report for the Ukrainian Justice Ministry about the prosecution of former Ukraine Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko. Prosecutors say Craig concealed the fact that the project was largely funded by Viktor Pinchuk, a Ukrainian oligarch who was close to Bill and Hillary Clinton but also donated to the Trump Foundation after Donald Trump made a September 2015 speech in Kiev.  (Reporting by Mark Hosenball and Andy Sullivan; Editing by Kevin Drawbaugh and Cynthia Osterman)

Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — Special Counsel Robert Mueller's probe of Russian interference in U.S. politics is over, but prosecutors are investigating two prominent Washington lobbyists for their work for the former pro-Russian government of Ukraine, according to three sources close to the probe. In a sign that evidence from Mueller's 22-month investigation may yet ensnare more prominent Washington figures, federal prosecutors in Washington cited a former U.S. congressman "working for the government of Ukraine" in charges filed Thursday against former Obama administration official Greg Craig. Craig pleaded not guilty on Friday to lobbying violations and making false statements.  The former congressman is not named in Craig's indictment, but other filings by his former law firm cite identical work done for the firm by Vin Weber, a lobbyist with Mercury Public Affairs, who was a U.S. representative from Minnesota from 1981 to 1993.  Weber disclosed his work for a Ukrainian think tank, but he did not register as a foreign agent for the government of Ukraine under a the 1938 Foreign Agents Registration Act (FARA), which would have required him to spell out his activity in detail, according to a Reuters review of lobbying records. The Department of Justice is stepping up FARA enforcement after decades of inactivity. Mueller's investigation has not led to criminal conspiracy charges against Trump or his former associates, but it has exposed previously hidden foreign lobbying activity by some of Washington's most prominent lobbyists and prompted a flurry of new registrations since 2017. U.S. Attorney General William Barr is expected to release a redacted version of Mueller's findings next week. Three sources familiar with the investigation said federal prosecutors in Manhattan are examining work done for Ukraine by both Weber and Tony Podesta, brother of John Podesta, a top official of former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton's 2016 Democratic presidential campaign and a former White House adviser.  A spokesperson for Weber and for Mercury declined to comment. Tony Podesta also declined to comment.  The FARA crackdown has factored in cases against Craig, Craig's former law firm Skadden Arps and Paul Manafort, the former Trump campaign chairman now serving a 7-1/2 year prison sentence for lobbying and financial crimes. Other lobbyists have rushed to comply with the law. As of April, 446 separate entities registered with the Justice Department, up from 387 at the end of 2016.  Tony Podesta disclosed his lobbying work for a Brussels-based think tank, the European Centre for a Modern Ukraine, to Congress. But he did not register with the Justice Department as a foreign agent for the government of Ukraine. Podesta's work for the Ukrainian government came to light in 2017 after Mueller's team charged Manafort with lobbying violations. Those revelations prompted Podesta to step down in October 2017 from his Podesta Associates lobbying firm, which collapsed shortly after. Sources familiar with the investigation said that investigations into Ukraine-related lobbying by Craig, Podesta and Weber were all initially being pursued by the Manhattan-based U.S. Attorney's office for the Southern District of New York, but the probe related to Craig was transferred to federal prosecutors in Washington. Craig denies misleading the Justice Department about his activity in Ukraine, saying in a statement on Thursday that the effort to prosecute him was "unprecedented and unjustified."  According to the indictment, Craig was hired to write a report for the Ukrainian Justice Ministry about the prosecution of former Ukraine Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko. Prosecutors say Craig concealed the fact that the project was largely funded by Viktor Pinchuk, a Ukrainian oligarch who was close to Bill and Hillary Clinton but also donated to the Trump Foundation after Donald Trump made a September 2015 speech in Kiev.  (Reporting by Mark Hosenball and Andy Sullivan; Editing by Kevin Drawbaugh and Cynthia Osterman)Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump's longtime confidant, Roger Stone, asked a federal judge Friday to compel the Justice Department to turn over a full copy of special counsel Robert Mueller's report on the Russia investigation as part of discovery in his criminal case. Stone has pleaded not guilty to charges he lied to Congress, engaged in witness tampering and obstructed a congressional investigation into possible coordination between Russia and Donald Trump's 2016 presidential campaign. In a court filing late Friday night, his lawyers said Stone is entitled to see the confidential report — which was submitted to the attorney general late last month — because it would help prove their allegation that there are constitutional issues with the investigation. In a separate action, a former aide to Stone who was subpoenaed to testify before a grand jury asked a federal appeals court to determine whether he still needs to testify now that the Russia probe has concluded. Stone's team also filed motions Friday night arguing he was selectively prosecuted, challenging the constitutionality of Mueller's appointment and that the special counsel didn't have the ability to prosecute him for lying to Congress. They allege that Congress did not formally make a referral to the Justice Department about Stone's testimony and because of that, Mueller's investigation was "a violation of the separation of powers." In court documents, the lawyers argue they are entitled to a private disclosure of the nearly 400-page report that Mueller submitted to Attorney General William Barr late last month and said they "must be allowed to review the Report in its entirety because it contains the government's evidence and conclusions on matters essential to Stone's defense." "To be clear, Stone is not requesting the Report be disclosed to the world - only to his counsel so that it may aid in preparing his defense," the lawyers wrote. Stone, who is set to go on trial in November, has maintained his innocence and blasted the special counsel's investigation as politically motivated. He has pleaded not guilty to the charges, which stem from conversations he had during the campaign about WikiLeaks, the anti-secrecy group that released material stolen from Democratic groups, including Hillary Clinton's campaign. In a four-page letter to Congress that detailed Mueller's "principal conclusions," Barr said the special counsel did not find a criminal conspiracy between Russia and Trump associates during the campaign, but did not reach a definitive conclusion on whether Trump obstructed justice. Instead, Mueller presented evidence on both sides of the obstruction question, but Barr said he did not believe the evidence was sufficient to prove that Trump had obstructed justice. Barr has said he expects to release a redacted version of Mueller's report next week that will be sent to Congress and made public. In the separate case, Andrew Miller, a former Stone aide, filed a petition with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia over the subpoena he was issued in Mueller's investigation. Last year, Mueller's team sought Miller's testimony regarding Stone, WikiLeaks and the Russian government-controlled online persona Guccifer 2.0, which was used to release hacked material during the 2016 election. But Miller challenged his grand jury subpoena, arguing that Mueller's appointment was unconstitutional. Earlier this year a three-judge panel of the court upheld the special counsel's appointment and a contempt order intended to force Miller to testify. In the new petition, Miller's attorney, Paul Kamenar, argued that the matter now appears to be moot because Stone has been indicted and like "Cinderella's carriage that turned into a pumpkin at midnight, special counsel Mueller's authority expired." Kamenar is now asking the court to have the government formally say whether it will still pursue Miller's testimony. If that's the case, Kamenar is asking for a rehearing of the case. He said in a statement that he will take the fight to the Supreme Court if necessary. ___ Read the petition: http://apne.ws/rQRdegR

Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump's longtime confidant, Roger Stone, asked a federal judge Friday to compel the Justice Department to turn over a full copy of special counsel Robert Mueller's report on the Russia investigation as part of discovery in his criminal case. Stone has pleaded not guilty to charges he lied to Congress, engaged in witness tampering and obstructed a congressional investigation into possible coordination between Russia and Donald Trump's 2016 presidential campaign. In a court filing late Friday night, his lawyers said Stone is entitled to see the confidential report — which was submitted to the attorney general late last month — because it would help prove their allegation that there are constitutional issues with the investigation. In a separate action, a former aide to Stone who was subpoenaed to testify before a grand jury asked a federal appeals court to determine whether he still needs to testify now that the Russia probe has concluded. Stone's team also filed motions Friday night arguing he was selectively prosecuted, challenging the constitutionality of Mueller's appointment and that the special counsel didn't have the ability to prosecute him for lying to Congress. They allege that Congress did not formally make a referral to the Justice Department about Stone's testimony and because of that, Mueller's investigation was "a violation of the separation of powers." In court documents, the lawyers argue they are entitled to a private disclosure of the nearly 400-page report that Mueller submitted to Attorney General William Barr late last month and said they "must be allowed to review the Report in its entirety because it contains the government's evidence and conclusions on matters essential to Stone's defense." "To be clear, Stone is not requesting the Report be disclosed to the world - only to his counsel so that it may aid in preparing his defense," the lawyers wrote. Stone, who is set to go on trial in November, has maintained his innocence and blasted the special counsel's investigation as politically motivated. He has pleaded not guilty to the charges, which stem from conversations he had during the campaign about WikiLeaks, the anti-secrecy group that released material stolen from Democratic groups, including Hillary Clinton's campaign. In a four-page letter to Congress that detailed Mueller's "principal conclusions," Barr said the special counsel did not find a criminal conspiracy between Russia and Trump associates during the campaign, but did not reach a definitive conclusion on whether Trump obstructed justice. Instead, Mueller presented evidence on both sides of the obstruction question, but Barr said he did not believe the evidence was sufficient to prove that Trump had obstructed justice. Barr has said he expects to release a redacted version of Mueller's report next week that will be sent to Congress and made public. In the separate case, Andrew Miller, a former Stone aide, filed a petition with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia over the subpoena he was issued in Mueller's investigation. Last year, Mueller's team sought Miller's testimony regarding Stone, WikiLeaks and the Russian government-controlled online persona Guccifer 2.0, which was used to release hacked material during the 2016 election. But Miller challenged his grand jury subpoena, arguing that Mueller's appointment was unconstitutional. Earlier this year a three-judge panel of the court upheld the special counsel's appointment and a contempt order intended to force Miller to testify. In the new petition, Miller's attorney, Paul Kamenar, argued that the matter now appears to be moot because Stone has been indicted and like "Cinderella's carriage that turned into a pumpkin at midnight, special counsel Mueller's authority expired." Kamenar is now asking the court to have the government formally say whether it will still pursue Miller's testimony. If that's the case, Kamenar is asking for a rehearing of the case. He said in a statement that he will take the fight to the Supreme Court if necessary. ___ Read the petition: http://apne.ws/rQRdegRSupported by Congress could free most Americans from the annual drudgery of filling out tax forms. Instead, it’s trying to lock the current system in place.  By The Editorial Board The editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section. Congress has landed on one of those rare ideas that commands support from both Democrats and Republicans. Unfortunately, it’s a bad one. On Tuesday, the House approved legislation misleadingly titled the Taxpayer First Act that includes a provision prohibiting the Internal Revenue Service from developing a free online system that most American households could use to file their taxes. The Senate is considering a similar piece of bipartisan legislation. This makes no sense. Congress should be making it easier for Americans to file their taxes. Instead of barring the I.R.S. from making April a little less miserable, why isn’t Congress requiring the I.R.S. to create a free tax filing website? Better yet, the United States could emulate the roughly three dozen countries, including Chile, Japan and Britain, where most taxpayers do not need to fill out tax returns. In some of those countries, the accuracy of tax withholding is sufficient to obviate the annual filing process. In others, the government sends out completed forms to most taxpayers. In Estonia, filing taxes can be done in less than three minutes. The federal government collects enough information about most American households to mail out a completed tax form that people would simply need to verify, sign and return. President Ronald Reagan proposed a version of just such a system. In 1998, Congress passed a law instructing the I.R.S. to develop such a system by 2008. President Barack Obama endorsed the concept during the 2008 presidential campaign. It still hasn’t happened. The explanation is sad but not surprising. The most vocal opponent of simplicity is Intuit, the maker of TurboTax, which has spent millions of dollars lobbying against efforts to reduce demand for its services. The company draws support from conservatives worried that making it easier to file taxes would make it easier to raise taxes. Since the early 2000s, the government has required Intuit and its competitors to offer free tax-filing software to the 70 percent of taxpayers with the lowest incomes. The legislation requires the I.R.S. to continue the Free File program rather than developing its own. Senator Ron Wyden, the Oregon Democrat who is co-sponsoring the Senate version of the bill, said on Wednesday that the I.R.S. would retain the authority to end the Free File program. But a number of independent experts, including the National Consumer Law Center, said the bill removed that exit ramp. But only about 3 percent of taxpayers use the programs. Intuit and its allies, including proponents of the legislation, say that it’s cheaper and better for the government to let private companies run the system. But companies have little incentive to advertise the availability of free filing or to make the system easy to use. Indeed, they have every reason to steer people away from the free products. That is how they make money. As a result, the government is saving taxpayer money at the expense of those taxpayers. There is evidence that automatic payment systems can make it easier to raise prices. A 2009 study found agencies raised toll rates after the adoption of E-ZPass, perhaps because drivers were less likely to object if they were unaware of the increases. But an automatic filing system also might help taxpayers to save money. For example, almost a quarter of eligible households don’t claim the earned-income tax credit. Members of Congress pay lip service to ideas like filing taxes on a postcard, but they continue to perpetuate the current system of mass April immiseration by preventing the most obvious and effective way to simplify tax collection. Americans with complicated finances are stuck with the misery of the current tax system. That’s no reason to force most Americans to join them. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported by Congress could free most Americans from the annual drudgery of filling out tax forms. Instead, it’s trying to lock the current system in place.  By The Editorial Board The editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section. Congress has landed on one of those rare ideas that commands support from both Democrats and Republicans. Unfortunately, it’s a bad one. On Tuesday, the House approved legislation misleadingly titled the Taxpayer First Act that includes a provision prohibiting the Internal Revenue Service from developing a free online system that most American households could use to file their taxes. The Senate is considering a similar piece of bipartisan legislation. This makes no sense. Congress should be making it easier for Americans to file their taxes. Instead of barring the I.R.S. from making April a little less miserable, why isn’t Congress requiring the I.R.S. to create a free tax filing website? Better yet, the United States could emulate the roughly three dozen countries, including Chile, Japan and Britain, where most taxpayers do not need to fill out tax returns. In some of those countries, the accuracy of tax withholding is sufficient to obviate the annual filing process. In others, the government sends out completed forms to most taxpayers. In Estonia, filing taxes can be done in less than three minutes. The federal government collects enough information about most American households to mail out a completed tax form that people would simply need to verify, sign and return. President Ronald Reagan proposed a version of just such a system. In 1998, Congress passed a law instructing the I.R.S. to develop such a system by 2008. President Barack Obama endorsed the concept during the 2008 presidential campaign. It still hasn’t happened. The explanation is sad but not surprising. The most vocal opponent of simplicity is Intuit, the maker of TurboTax, which has spent millions of dollars lobbying against efforts to reduce demand for its services. The company draws support from conservatives worried that making it easier to file taxes would make it easier to raise taxes. Since the early 2000s, the government has required Intuit and its competitors to offer free tax-filing software to the 70 percent of taxpayers with the lowest incomes. The legislation requires the I.R.S. to continue the Free File program rather than developing its own. Senator Ron Wyden, the Oregon Democrat who is co-sponsoring the Senate version of the bill, said on Wednesday that the I.R.S. would retain the authority to end the Free File program. But a number of independent experts, including the National Consumer Law Center, said the bill removed that exit ramp. But only about 3 percent of taxpayers use the programs. Intuit and its allies, including proponents of the legislation, say that it’s cheaper and better for the government to let private companies run the system. But companies have little incentive to advertise the availability of free filing or to make the system easy to use. Indeed, they have every reason to steer people away from the free products. That is how they make money. As a result, the government is saving taxpayer money at the expense of those taxpayers. There is evidence that automatic payment systems can make it easier to raise prices. A 2009 study found agencies raised toll rates after the adoption of E-ZPass, perhaps because drivers were less likely to object if they were unaware of the increases. But an automatic filing system also might help taxpayers to save money. For example, almost a quarter of eligible households don’t claim the earned-income tax credit. Members of Congress pay lip service to ideas like filing taxes on a postcard, but they continue to perpetuate the current system of mass April immiseration by preventing the most obvious and effective way to simplify tax collection. Americans with complicated finances are stuck with the misery of the current tax system. That’s no reason to force most Americans to join them. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Supported by By Charlie Savage WASHINGTON — Chelsea Manning, the former Army intelligence analyst who sent archives of secret military and diplomatic documents to WikiLeaks in 2010, said on Thursday that she had refused to answer questions about her interactions with the antisecrecy organization before a grand jury — and might be sent to jail as soon as Friday. Ms. Manning had been imprisoned for about seven years before President Barack Obama commuted most of the remainder of her 35-year sentence in 2017, and she was released from a military prison in May of that year. Her defiance of the subpoena means she may be imprisoned again after a judge holds a closed hearing about her legal arguments and whether to hold her in contempt of court. “The court may find me in contempt and order me to jail,” she said in a statement, adding: “In solidarity with many activists facing the odds, I will stand by my principles. I will exhaust every legal remedy available. My legal team continues to challenge the secrecy of these proceedings, and I am prepared to face the consequences of my refusal.” Ms. Manning also confirmed that — as widely suspected — prosecutors wanted to ask her about WikiLeaks. Prosecutors in the Eastern District of Virginia have been investigating the organization for years, and inadvertently revealed last year that they had charged its leader, Julian Assange, under seal. “All of the substantive questions pertained to my disclosures of information to the public in 2010 — answers I provided in extensive testimony, during my court-martial in 2013,” Ms. Manning said. Prosecutors had bestowed legal immunity on Ms. Manning for her testimony, she said, but she responded to each question by saying she refused to answer because it violated her constitutional rights. It had not been clear what the charge against Mr. Assange, who has been living for years in the Ecuadorean Embassy in London to avoid arrest, pertained to: WikiLeaks’ role in publishing leaked, classified documents, or its role in publishing the Democratic emails stolen by Russian government hackers during the 2016 presidential campaign. The disclosure that prosecutors are newly refocused on Ms. Manning’s early interactions with the organization indicates that the case most likely relates to the publication of classified information — a case that would raise novel First Amendment issues. The Obama administration had weighed charging Mr. Assange in connection with Ms. Manning’s disclosures, but decided against it over fears of chilling investigative journalism. After Ms. Manning disclosed her subpoena to The New York Times last week, The Daily Beast reported that David House, an activist and member of a support network for Ms. Manning during the 2010-11 era of legal and activist wrangling over WikiLeaks’ publication of her leaks, had been granted immunity and testified last year before the same grand jury about his interactions with the group. Joshua Stueve, a spokesman for the United States attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia, declined to comment. Judge Claude M. Hilton, who was appointed to the Federal District Court in that district by President Ronald Reagan in 1985, will decide whether to accept Ms. Manning’s arguments for why she had a right to refuse to answer the questions or to send her to jail. He previously declined her request to quash the subpoena before she knew what she would be asked. Follow Charlie Savage on Twitter: @charlie_savage.    

Supported by By Charlie Savage WASHINGTON — Chelsea Manning, the former Army intelligence analyst who sent archives of secret military and diplomatic documents to WikiLeaks in 2010, said on Thursday that she had refused to answer questions about her interactions with the antisecrecy organization before a grand jury — and might be sent to jail as soon as Friday. Ms. Manning had been imprisoned for about seven years before President Barack Obama commuted most of the remainder of her 35-year sentence in 2017, and she was released from a military prison in May of that year. Her defiance of the subpoena means she may be imprisoned again after a judge holds a closed hearing about her legal arguments and whether to hold her in contempt of court. “The court may find me in contempt and order me to jail,” she said in a statement, adding: “In solidarity with many activists facing the odds, I will stand by my principles. I will exhaust every legal remedy available. My legal team continues to challenge the secrecy of these proceedings, and I am prepared to face the consequences of my refusal.” Ms. Manning also confirmed that — as widely suspected — prosecutors wanted to ask her about WikiLeaks. Prosecutors in the Eastern District of Virginia have been investigating the organization for years, and inadvertently revealed last year that they had charged its leader, Julian Assange, under seal. “All of the substantive questions pertained to my disclosures of information to the public in 2010 — answers I provided in extensive testimony, during my court-martial in 2013,” Ms. Manning said. Prosecutors had bestowed legal immunity on Ms. Manning for her testimony, she said, but she responded to each question by saying she refused to answer because it violated her constitutional rights. It had not been clear what the charge against Mr. Assange, who has been living for years in the Ecuadorean Embassy in London to avoid arrest, pertained to: WikiLeaks’ role in publishing leaked, classified documents, or its role in publishing the Democratic emails stolen by Russian government hackers during the 2016 presidential campaign. The disclosure that prosecutors are newly refocused on Ms. Manning’s early interactions with the organization indicates that the case most likely relates to the publication of classified information — a case that would raise novel First Amendment issues. The Obama administration had weighed charging Mr. Assange in connection with Ms. Manning’s disclosures, but decided against it over fears of chilling investigative journalism. After Ms. Manning disclosed her subpoena to The New York Times last week, The Daily Beast reported that David House, an activist and member of a support network for Ms. Manning during the 2010-11 era of legal and activist wrangling over WikiLeaks’ publication of her leaks, had been granted immunity and testified last year before the same grand jury about his interactions with the group. Joshua Stueve, a spokesman for the United States attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia, declined to comment. Judge Claude M. Hilton, who was appointed to the Federal District Court in that district by President Ronald Reagan in 1985, will decide whether to accept Ms. Manning’s arguments for why she had a right to refuse to answer the questions or to send her to jail. He previously declined her request to quash the subpoena before she knew what she would be asked. Follow Charlie Savage on Twitter: @charlie_savage.    Supported by By The Associated Press BOSTON — A Massachusetts man who sent threatening letters with white powder to President Donald Trump's sons, Antonio Sabato Jr., Sen. Debbie Stabenow and a law professor was sentenced Friday in federal court to five years of probation. The judge declined to send Daniel Frisiello to prison, as prosecutors had sought, because of concerns the 25-year-old man from Beverly, who is developmentally disabled, would not respond well to incarceration. But he stressed the sentence wasn't "lenient." "Do not underestimate how serious I am treating your crimes," Judge Nathaniel Gorton said to Frisiello as the dozens of his family members, friends and supporters who packed the court proceeding hugged, cried and sighed in relief. Frisiello was also ordered to serve his first year of probation in home confinement, and has been banned for the full five years from accessing the internet or sending mail without prior approval. Frisiello also won't be allowed to have a computer, tablet or other device with access to the internet. Frisiello, who pleaded guilty in October to sending the threatening letters, thanked Groton for not imprisoning him. The past year, he said, has been "hell" for his family. Frisiello's family, in a statement after the court appearance, said he "deeply regrets the fear and harm he caused and will work very hard to be a better person and citizen." Assistant U.S. Attorney Scott Garland, who had sought a three-year prison sentence, argued that Frisiello had carefully considered the letter writing campaign, which included 13 letters over three years. He researched the best addresses and took steps to avoid detection, like dropping them off at different mailboxes, Garland said. "This was not an impulsive thing," he said. "At every step, there was a chance for deliberation." Imposing only probation, Garland said, was akin to sending Frisiello back to the life he had before his arrest, which was largely spent at home on the internet. Frisiello lawyer's William Fick argued that prison would be physically and mentally harmful to his client, who he said has significant developmental issues from brain damage at birth, autism and anxiety disorder. Fick also argued probation is appropriately severe for a person with Frisiello's condition because it takes away what few opportunities he has to interact with society, such as going to work or spending time with family and friends outside the house. Acknowledging the nearly 90 letters of support written to the judge on Frisiello's behalf, Fick said it was "tragic" no one in his client's extensive support network intervened before his seemingly harmless obsession with writing letters to celebrities and other notable people took a dark turn. "He clearly felt like he wasn't being heard, so he became threatening," Fick said. Prosecutors say Frisiello sent a letter to Donald Trump Jr. that was opened in February by his now-estranged wife, Vanessa, at their New York City home. She called 911 and was briefly hospitalized after she reported she was coughing and felt nauseous. He also sent a white powder letter to Eric Trump during the 2016 presidential campaign that said his father must drop out of the race or the next letter wouldn't be fake. The substance in all of the letters turned out not to be hazardous. Other letter recipients included Stabenow, the Democratic U.S. senator from Michigan; Michele Dauber, a Stanford University law professor who promoted an effort to recall California judge Aaron Persky; and Sabato, a former underwear model and soap opera actor who is running for Congress in California as a Republican and spoke at the 2016 Republican National Convention. Hoaxes involving white powder have been common since anonymous letters laced with anthrax spores were sent to media companies and congressional offices days after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, killing five people and infecting 17 others. __ This story has been corrected to show that Daniel Frisielllo's lawyer is William Fick, not William Flick.

Supported by By The Associated Press BOSTON — A Massachusetts man who sent threatening letters with white powder to President Donald Trump's sons, Antonio Sabato Jr., Sen. Debbie Stabenow and a law professor was sentenced Friday in federal court to five years of probation. The judge declined to send Daniel Frisiello to prison, as prosecutors had sought, because of concerns the 25-year-old man from Beverly, who is developmentally disabled, would not respond well to incarceration. But he stressed the sentence wasn't "lenient." "Do not underestimate how serious I am treating your crimes," Judge Nathaniel Gorton said to Frisiello as the dozens of his family members, friends and supporters who packed the court proceeding hugged, cried and sighed in relief. Frisiello was also ordered to serve his first year of probation in home confinement, and has been banned for the full five years from accessing the internet or sending mail without prior approval. Frisiello also won't be allowed to have a computer, tablet or other device with access to the internet. Frisiello, who pleaded guilty in October to sending the threatening letters, thanked Groton for not imprisoning him. The past year, he said, has been "hell" for his family. Frisiello's family, in a statement after the court appearance, said he "deeply regrets the fear and harm he caused and will work very hard to be a better person and citizen." Assistant U.S. Attorney Scott Garland, who had sought a three-year prison sentence, argued that Frisiello had carefully considered the letter writing campaign, which included 13 letters over three years. He researched the best addresses and took steps to avoid detection, like dropping them off at different mailboxes, Garland said. "This was not an impulsive thing," he said. "At every step, there was a chance for deliberation." Imposing only probation, Garland said, was akin to sending Frisiello back to the life he had before his arrest, which was largely spent at home on the internet. Frisiello lawyer's William Fick argued that prison would be physically and mentally harmful to his client, who he said has significant developmental issues from brain damage at birth, autism and anxiety disorder. Fick also argued probation is appropriately severe for a person with Frisiello's condition because it takes away what few opportunities he has to interact with society, such as going to work or spending time with family and friends outside the house. Acknowledging the nearly 90 letters of support written to the judge on Frisiello's behalf, Fick said it was "tragic" no one in his client's extensive support network intervened before his seemingly harmless obsession with writing letters to celebrities and other notable people took a dark turn. "He clearly felt like he wasn't being heard, so he became threatening," Fick said. Prosecutors say Frisiello sent a letter to Donald Trump Jr. that was opened in February by his now-estranged wife, Vanessa, at their New York City home. She called 911 and was briefly hospitalized after she reported she was coughing and felt nauseous. He also sent a white powder letter to Eric Trump during the 2016 presidential campaign that said his father must drop out of the race or the next letter wouldn't be fake. The substance in all of the letters turned out not to be hazardous. Other letter recipients included Stabenow, the Democratic U.S. senator from Michigan; Michele Dauber, a Stanford University law professor who promoted an effort to recall California judge Aaron Persky; and Sabato, a former underwear model and soap opera actor who is running for Congress in California as a Republican and spoke at the 2016 Republican National Convention. Hoaxes involving white powder have been common since anonymous letters laced with anthrax spores were sent to media companies and congressional offices days after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, killing five people and infecting 17 others. __ This story has been corrected to show that Daniel Frisielllo's lawyer is William Fick, not William Flick.