Supported by By Alan Rappeport WASHINGTON — Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin plans to hire Monica Crowley, a longtime Fox News commentator, as his top communications official, according to a person familiar with the matter. Ms. Crowley would succeed Tony Sayegh, who has been planning for several months to leave the Treasury in May. Her hiring would be another sign of the symbiosis between the Trump administration and Fox News, a launching pad for current White House officials and a place to land for those who leave. Mr. Sayegh is a former Fox News contributor. While the Treasury position is primarily a platform for promoting President Trump’s handling of the economy, including his tax and trade policies, Ms. Crowley’s appointment is almost certain to raise questions. She was considered for a high-ranking National Security Council job in 2017 and was also mentioned as a candidate to become the White House press secretary. But she dropped out of contention after the emergence of allegations that she plagiarized key passages in her 2012 book, “What the (Bleep) Just Happened?,” from Wikipedia and newspaper articles. After CNN found evidence of plagiarism, HarperCollins withdrew the digital edition of the book. Separately, Politico found more than a dozen examples of passages in Ms. Crowley’s Ph.D. dissertation that had been taken from scholarly works. At the time, Mr. Trump’s transition team portrayed the allegations as a political attack on Ms. Crowley. Ms. Crowley could not immediately be reached for comment on Wednesday. Fox News declined to comment, beyond saying she had not been formally affiliated with the network since 2016. Speaking to Sean Hannity on Fox News in 2017, Ms. Crowley sought to rebut the accusations against her. “What happened to me was a despicable, straight-up political hit job,” she said, claiming without presenting evidence that the allegations about her had been “debunked.” In the interview with Mr. Hannity, Ms. Crowley said members of the Washington establishment were trying to destroy Mr. Trump. “They want him in prison,” she said. “This is a war.” The choice of Ms. Crowley is a surprising one for Mr. Mnuchin, who has been seen as a voice of moderation in the Trump administration. In recent years, Ms. Crowley has emerged as a conservative firebrand, assailing Democrats and amplifying conspiracy theories about President Barack Obama’s heritage. In a collection of videos unearthed by the liberal group Media Matters, Ms. Crowley described Mr. Obama’s policies as “un-American” and said questions about his birth certificate were “very legitimate.” Mr. Trump was a leading voice of the so-called birther movement, which was built on questioning, without factual basis, where Mr. Obama was born. “It all feeds into this idea that somehow, fair or not, Obama is not one of us,” Ms. Crowley told the Fox News host Bill O’Reilly, who said she was being unfair to Mr. Obama. Ms. Crowley has been a fixture on Fox News and in conservative media for decades, having joined the network as an international affairs analyst in 1998. Before that, she worked as a foreign policy assistant and research consultant to former President Richard M. Nixon. She received her Ph.D. from Columbia University. The Treasury appointment, which does not require Senate confirmation, is ultimately Mr. Trump’s to make. The White House did not immediately respond to a request for comment. A second person familiar with the administration’s thinking about the decision said the White House wanted to add staff members who, like Ms. Crowley, could be counted on to fiercely defend Mr. Trump’s policies on television as the 2020 election season gets into full swing. It was not clear how much airtime Ms. Crowley would get, however, as Mr. Mnuchin likes to keep close control over the Treasury’s public communications. Credible allegations of plagiarism would normally be problematic for securing a senior role in an administration, especially a job that entailed providing potentially market-moving information to the public. But Mr. Trump has not been deterred from picking others with tarnished résumés for high-profile positions, recently standing behind Stephen Moore and Herman Cain as his choices to be governors of the Federal Reserve despite questions about their qualifications and personal lives. The Trump administration’s communications team has been in transition since Bill Shine, a former Fox News co-president, resigned last month as deputy chief of staff for communications. Mr. Mnuchin’s staff has also been in flux. Eli Miller, his chief of staff, departed this month to join the Blackstone Group, the giant investment firm. David Malpass, the under secretary for international affairs, left to become president of the World Bank. Mr. Mnuchin is girding for what will probably to be a long and intense battle with Congress as House Democrats, using a provision of the tax code, have formally requested six years of Mr. Trump’s tax returns. Mr. Mnuchin, who is one of Mr. Trump’s most loyal aides and who oversees the Internal Revenue Service, has resisted turning over the returns, citing taxpayer privacy. Ms. Crowley will have a formidable task in succeeding Mr. Sayegh. He emerged as one of Mr. Mnuchin’s closest confidants and was a liaison to the White House and Congress during the drafting and passage of the Republican tax-cut plan in 2017. He advised Mr. Mnuchin on his television presentation and encouraged the secretary to be more available to reporters. Mr. Sayegh, the assistant secretary for public affairs, has been leading the search for his successor. His future plans are unknown. A Treasury Department spokesman declined to comment on Ms. Crowley’s hiring, which was reported earlier by Bloomberg News. Michael M. Grynbaum contributed reporting from New York.    

Supported by By Alan Rappeport WASHINGTON — Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin plans to hire Monica Crowley, a longtime Fox News commentator, as his top communications official, according to a person familiar with the matter. Ms. Crowley would succeed Tony Sayegh, who has been planning for several months to leave the Treasury in May. Her hiring would be another sign of the symbiosis between the Trump administration and Fox News, a launching pad for current White House officials and a place to land for those who leave. Mr. Sayegh is a former Fox News contributor. While the Treasury position is primarily a platform for promoting President Trump’s handling of the economy, including his tax and trade policies, Ms. Crowley’s appointment is almost certain to raise questions. She was considered for a high-ranking National Security Council job in 2017 and was also mentioned as a candidate to become the White House press secretary. But she dropped out of contention after the emergence of allegations that she plagiarized key passages in her 2012 book, “What the (Bleep) Just Happened?,” from Wikipedia and newspaper articles. After CNN found evidence of plagiarism, HarperCollins withdrew the digital edition of the book. Separately, Politico found more than a dozen examples of passages in Ms. Crowley’s Ph.D. dissertation that had been taken from scholarly works. At the time, Mr. Trump’s transition team portrayed the allegations as a political attack on Ms. Crowley. Ms. Crowley could not immediately be reached for comment on Wednesday. Fox News declined to comment, beyond saying she had not been formally affiliated with the network since 2016. Speaking to Sean Hannity on Fox News in 2017, Ms. Crowley sought to rebut the accusations against her. “What happened to me was a despicable, straight-up political hit job,” she said, claiming without presenting evidence that the allegations about her had been “debunked.” In the interview with Mr. Hannity, Ms. Crowley said members of the Washington establishment were trying to destroy Mr. Trump. “They want him in prison,” she said. “This is a war.” The choice of Ms. Crowley is a surprising one for Mr. Mnuchin, who has been seen as a voice of moderation in the Trump administration. In recent years, Ms. Crowley has emerged as a conservative firebrand, assailing Democrats and amplifying conspiracy theories about President Barack Obama’s heritage. In a collection of videos unearthed by the liberal group Media Matters, Ms. Crowley described Mr. Obama’s policies as “un-American” and said questions about his birth certificate were “very legitimate.” Mr. Trump was a leading voice of the so-called birther movement, which was built on questioning, without factual basis, where Mr. Obama was born. “It all feeds into this idea that somehow, fair or not, Obama is not one of us,” Ms. Crowley told the Fox News host Bill O’Reilly, who said she was being unfair to Mr. Obama. Ms. Crowley has been a fixture on Fox News and in conservative media for decades, having joined the network as an international affairs analyst in 1998. Before that, she worked as a foreign policy assistant and research consultant to former President Richard M. Nixon. She received her Ph.D. from Columbia University. The Treasury appointment, which does not require Senate confirmation, is ultimately Mr. Trump’s to make. The White House did not immediately respond to a request for comment. A second person familiar with the administration’s thinking about the decision said the White House wanted to add staff members who, like Ms. Crowley, could be counted on to fiercely defend Mr. Trump’s policies on television as the 2020 election season gets into full swing. It was not clear how much airtime Ms. Crowley would get, however, as Mr. Mnuchin likes to keep close control over the Treasury’s public communications. Credible allegations of plagiarism would normally be problematic for securing a senior role in an administration, especially a job that entailed providing potentially market-moving information to the public. But Mr. Trump has not been deterred from picking others with tarnished résumés for high-profile positions, recently standing behind Stephen Moore and Herman Cain as his choices to be governors of the Federal Reserve despite questions about their qualifications and personal lives. The Trump administration’s communications team has been in transition since Bill Shine, a former Fox News co-president, resigned last month as deputy chief of staff for communications. Mr. Mnuchin’s staff has also been in flux. Eli Miller, his chief of staff, departed this month to join the Blackstone Group, the giant investment firm. David Malpass, the under secretary for international affairs, left to become president of the World Bank. Mr. Mnuchin is girding for what will probably to be a long and intense battle with Congress as House Democrats, using a provision of the tax code, have formally requested six years of Mr. Trump’s tax returns. Mr. Mnuchin, who is one of Mr. Trump’s most loyal aides and who oversees the Internal Revenue Service, has resisted turning over the returns, citing taxpayer privacy. Ms. Crowley will have a formidable task in succeeding Mr. Sayegh. He emerged as one of Mr. Mnuchin’s closest confidants and was a liaison to the White House and Congress during the drafting and passage of the Republican tax-cut plan in 2017. He advised Mr. Mnuchin on his television presentation and encouraged the secretary to be more available to reporters. Mr. Sayegh, the assistant secretary for public affairs, has been leading the search for his successor. His future plans are unknown. A Treasury Department spokesman declined to comment on Ms. Crowley’s hiring, which was reported earlier by Bloomberg News. Michael M. Grynbaum contributed reporting from New York.    Supported by By The Associated Press NEW YORK — Sen. Amy Klobuchar agreed on Wednesday to become the second Democratic presidential candidate to hold a town hall meeting on Fox News Channel, and others are soon to follow. Sen. Bernie Sanders was the first to venture onto Fox this week. His Monday town hall reached 2.55 million viewers, the biggest audience of any such event in the 2020 campaign cycle, despite not being aired in the prime time hours when most people are available. One of Fox News' most loyal viewers, President Donald Trump, indicated on Twitter that he wasn't happy seeing Sanders on his screen. Fox says it's looking forward to hosting Klobuchar's next town hall. Meanwhile, Pete Buttigieg's campaign confirmed that it is in talks with Fox about a town hall. Jenn Fiore, an aide to Julian Castro, said that campaign is in the process of scheduling one. Sen. Cory Booker also said he's considering one. During an appearance in Fredericksburg, Virginia, on Wednesday, Beto O'Rourke said that while he disagrees with the practices of Fox News, he will appear on the network. He said he wasn't sure whether it would be on a town hall or some other program. "I don't write anybody off in this country for their choice of cable programming," O'Rourke said. The Democrats have had to weigh possibly angering a liberal base that holds Fox News in contempt versus reaching a large audience, many of whom wouldn't be likely to see them in action elsewhere. Before the newfound interest, Fox News faced the prospect of watching the Democratic nomination process from the sidelines. The Democratic National Committee announced in February, and reaffirmed this week, that it would not hold any of its upcoming candidate debates on the network. On Twitter, Trump has seemed like a spurned man. He tweeted Tuesday that it seemed "very strange" to see Sanders on Fox. Trump, who rarely complains about Fox, also said that many of his supporters couldn't get into the Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, event that was "stuffed" with Sanders fans. Fox has said it reached out to various political and local groups in the Bethlehem area to help fill the audience for the Sanders town hall. Besides the president, Fox News also has to wonder how the large number of his fans in its audience will take to the Democratic visits. The online activists Lynnette Hardaway and Rochelle Richardson, who often appear as commentators on Fox under the name Diamond and Silk, tweeted that it was "sickening to see Bernie Sanders on a Fox News town hall disparaging our president." Fox did receive praise for its handling of the Sanders town hall from some unlikely sources, including panelists on MSNBC's "Morning Joe," which has been relentless in its criticism of Trump. The Klobuchar town hall will be held May 8 in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The hour-long event will have a similar blueprint to Sanders' session: Bret Baier and Martha MacCallum will be the anchors, and it will start at 6:30 p.m. Eastern time. ____ Associated Press writers Alexandra Jaffe in Des Moines, Iowa, and Will Weissert in Fredericksburg, Virginia, contributed to this report.

Supported by By The Associated Press NEW YORK — Sen. Amy Klobuchar agreed on Wednesday to become the second Democratic presidential candidate to hold a town hall meeting on Fox News Channel, and others are soon to follow. Sen. Bernie Sanders was the first to venture onto Fox this week. His Monday town hall reached 2.55 million viewers, the biggest audience of any such event in the 2020 campaign cycle, despite not being aired in the prime time hours when most people are available. One of Fox News' most loyal viewers, President Donald Trump, indicated on Twitter that he wasn't happy seeing Sanders on his screen. Fox says it's looking forward to hosting Klobuchar's next town hall. Meanwhile, Pete Buttigieg's campaign confirmed that it is in talks with Fox about a town hall. Jenn Fiore, an aide to Julian Castro, said that campaign is in the process of scheduling one. Sen. Cory Booker also said he's considering one. During an appearance in Fredericksburg, Virginia, on Wednesday, Beto O'Rourke said that while he disagrees with the practices of Fox News, he will appear on the network. He said he wasn't sure whether it would be on a town hall or some other program. "I don't write anybody off in this country for their choice of cable programming," O'Rourke said. The Democrats have had to weigh possibly angering a liberal base that holds Fox News in contempt versus reaching a large audience, many of whom wouldn't be likely to see them in action elsewhere. Before the newfound interest, Fox News faced the prospect of watching the Democratic nomination process from the sidelines. The Democratic National Committee announced in February, and reaffirmed this week, that it would not hold any of its upcoming candidate debates on the network. On Twitter, Trump has seemed like a spurned man. He tweeted Tuesday that it seemed "very strange" to see Sanders on Fox. Trump, who rarely complains about Fox, also said that many of his supporters couldn't get into the Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, event that was "stuffed" with Sanders fans. Fox has said it reached out to various political and local groups in the Bethlehem area to help fill the audience for the Sanders town hall. Besides the president, Fox News also has to wonder how the large number of his fans in its audience will take to the Democratic visits. The online activists Lynnette Hardaway and Rochelle Richardson, who often appear as commentators on Fox under the name Diamond and Silk, tweeted that it was "sickening to see Bernie Sanders on a Fox News town hall disparaging our president." Fox did receive praise for its handling of the Sanders town hall from some unlikely sources, including panelists on MSNBC's "Morning Joe," which has been relentless in its criticism of Trump. The Klobuchar town hall will be held May 8 in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The hour-long event will have a similar blueprint to Sanders' session: Bret Baier and Martha MacCallum will be the anchors, and it will start at 6:30 p.m. Eastern time. ____ Associated Press writers Alexandra Jaffe in Des Moines, Iowa, and Will Weissert in Fredericksburg, Virginia, contributed to this report.Supported by By Michael M. Grynbaum Not long ago, Donna Brazile was the interim chairwoman of the Democratic Party and a strident critic of Fox News, accusing the network of bias and hyperbole. On Monday, Ms. Brazile announced that she had accepted a new job: on-air commentator on Fox News. Cue the record scratch. A deep-blue Democrat who managed Al Gore’s 2000 presidential campaign, Ms. Brazile has confounded expectations by taking a role at President Trump’s favorite cable news channel. “This is an opportunity to reach across the political aisle,” she told viewers during her debut appearance on Monday. Her interviewer, the host Dana Perino, called it “a bold move for you and for Fox.” It was also another step in Ms. Brazile’s gradual drift away from the Democratic establishment. Ms. Brazile became interim chairwoman of the party in July 2016. Days before Mr. Trump’s election in November, emails obtained by WikiLeaks revealed that Ms. Brazile, who worked for CNN at the time, had leaked debate questions in advance to her allies on Hillary Clinton’s campaign staff. CNN promptly fired her. Within a year, she antagonized Democrats with a provocative memoir that accused the party of taking steps to favor Mrs. Clinton over Senator Bernie Sanders during the 2016 primary campaign. Now, Ms. Brazile will appear on the network that her successor, Tom Perez, the Democratic Party chairman since February 2017, recently barred from sponsoring a party debate because of what he deemed an “inappropriate relationship” with Mr. Trump. In a statement issued on Monday, Ms. Brazile tried to anticipate any objections. “I know I’m going to get criticized from my friends in the progressive movement for being on Fox News,” she wrote. “My response is that, if we’ve learned anything from the 2016 election, it is that we can’t have a country where we don’t talk to those who disagree with our political views. “There’s an audience on Fox News that doesn’t hear enough from Democrats,” Ms. Brazile continued. “We have to engage that audience and show Americans of every stripe what we stand for rather than retreat into our ‘safe spaces’ where we simply agree with each other.” On the air with Ms. Perino on Monday afternoon, Ms. Brazile identified herself as “a progressive and a liberal.” She noted that she had occasionally appeared on Fox News in the past, including as a guest host of the opinionated talk show “The Five.” Fox News said Ms. Brazile would not be involved in debates or candidate town halls hosted by the network during the 2020 campaign. Ms. Brazile arrives at a tumultuous time for the network, which has been grappling with an uproar over offensive comments by two of its star commentators, Jeanine Pirro and Tucker Carlson. Fox News suspended Ms. Pirro after she questioned a Muslim lawmaker’s loyalty to the United States, a move that prompted Mr. Trump to reproach the network in a series of Twitter posts on Sunday. The president also criticized two of Fox News’s weekend anchors, Arthel Neville and Leland Vittert, along with its chief news anchor, Shepard Smith. Fox News has not commented on Mr. Trump’s tweets.

Supported by By Michael M. Grynbaum Not long ago, Donna Brazile was the interim chairwoman of the Democratic Party and a strident critic of Fox News, accusing the network of bias and hyperbole. On Monday, Ms. Brazile announced that she had accepted a new job: on-air commentator on Fox News. Cue the record scratch. A deep-blue Democrat who managed Al Gore’s 2000 presidential campaign, Ms. Brazile has confounded expectations by taking a role at President Trump’s favorite cable news channel. “This is an opportunity to reach across the political aisle,” she told viewers during her debut appearance on Monday. Her interviewer, the host Dana Perino, called it “a bold move for you and for Fox.” It was also another step in Ms. Brazile’s gradual drift away from the Democratic establishment. Ms. Brazile became interim chairwoman of the party in July 2016. Days before Mr. Trump’s election in November, emails obtained by WikiLeaks revealed that Ms. Brazile, who worked for CNN at the time, had leaked debate questions in advance to her allies on Hillary Clinton’s campaign staff. CNN promptly fired her. Within a year, she antagonized Democrats with a provocative memoir that accused the party of taking steps to favor Mrs. Clinton over Senator Bernie Sanders during the 2016 primary campaign. Now, Ms. Brazile will appear on the network that her successor, Tom Perez, the Democratic Party chairman since February 2017, recently barred from sponsoring a party debate because of what he deemed an “inappropriate relationship” with Mr. Trump. In a statement issued on Monday, Ms. Brazile tried to anticipate any objections. “I know I’m going to get criticized from my friends in the progressive movement for being on Fox News,” she wrote. “My response is that, if we’ve learned anything from the 2016 election, it is that we can’t have a country where we don’t talk to those who disagree with our political views. “There’s an audience on Fox News that doesn’t hear enough from Democrats,” Ms. Brazile continued. “We have to engage that audience and show Americans of every stripe what we stand for rather than retreat into our ‘safe spaces’ where we simply agree with each other.” On the air with Ms. Perino on Monday afternoon, Ms. Brazile identified herself as “a progressive and a liberal.” She noted that she had occasionally appeared on Fox News in the past, including as a guest host of the opinionated talk show “The Five.” Fox News said Ms. Brazile would not be involved in debates or candidate town halls hosted by the network during the 2020 campaign. Ms. Brazile arrives at a tumultuous time for the network, which has been grappling with an uproar over offensive comments by two of its star commentators, Jeanine Pirro and Tucker Carlson. Fox News suspended Ms. Pirro after she questioned a Muslim lawmaker’s loyalty to the United States, a move that prompted Mr. Trump to reproach the network in a series of Twitter posts on Sunday. The president also criticized two of Fox News’s weekend anchors, Arthel Neville and Leland Vittert, along with its chief news anchor, Shepard Smith. Fox News has not commented on Mr. Trump’s tweets.            Paul Manafort’s Trail of Scandals My Dead Dad’s Porno Tapes Ten Meter Tower Between Sound and Silence Coal Miner to Trump: “Coal Mining Isn’t Coming Back” House Tour | Cary Leibowitz Sanctuary City Hotline 2011: Arab Spring ‘Can The President Be Impeached?’ We Answer Your Questions Calving Season

            Paul Manafort’s Trail of Scandals My Dead Dad’s Porno Tapes Ten Meter Tower Between Sound and Silence Coal Miner to Trump: “Coal Mining Isn’t Coming Back” House Tour | Cary Leibowitz Sanctuary City Hotline 2011: Arab Spring ‘Can The President Be Impeached?’ We Answer Your Questions Calving SeasonSupported by By Michael M. Grynbaum and Astead W. Herndon The Democratic National Committee said on Wednesday that it had barred Fox News from hosting or televising a candidate debate for the party’s 2020 primary election, an unusually pointed rebuke of a cable news channel whose star pundits are closely aligned with President Trump. The committee’s chairman, Tom Perez, said in a statement that Fox News “is not in a position to host a fair and neutral debate for our candidates.” Mr. Perez cited an article published this week by The New Yorker that reported on ties between the president and the network, which he deemed an “inappropriate relationship.” Fox News, which devotes its prime-time hours to pro-Trump commentary, was seen in broadcast circles as a long shot to sponsor a gathering of Democratic candidates. But the network had made an aggressive pitch to party officials, noting, for instance, that the “Fox News Sunday” anchor, Chris Wallace, had won plaudits after moderating the third general election debate in 2016. “We hope the D.N.C. will reconsider its decision to bar Chris Wallace, Bret Baier and Martha MacCallum, all of whom embody the ultimate journalistic integrity and professionalism, from moderating a Democratic presidential debate,” Bill Sammon, managing editor of Fox News’s Washington bureau, said in a statement. “They offer candidates an important opportunity to make their case to the largest TV news audience in America, which includes many persuadable voters.” Mr. Trump weighed in Wednesday evening, sarcastically praising the Democrats’ decision. “Good, then I think I’ll do the same thing with the Fake News Networks and the Radical Left Democrats in the General Election debates!” he wrote on Twitter. The president often tweets idle threats. But his message raised the prospect that Mr. Trump could boycott a debate in the 2020 race if he took issue with the network affiliation of a chosen moderator. General election debates are not sponsored by individual networks; they are overseen by an independent commission and typically aired on all major stations. In early 2016, Mr. Trump did boycott a primary debate — which was sponsored by Fox News. He had objected to the inclusion of the anchor Megyn Kelly as a moderator. Televised debates are a relatively new innovation in the presidential primary process, but they have become sought-after events for networks eager to score high ratings and serve as gatekeepers in the early months of the nominating cycle, when viewers are forming their initial impressions of the candidates. Democratic officials had signaled some openness to collaborating with Fox News on a debate in 2019 or 2020, saying they were trying to reach a broad national audience. But the party came under pressure this week after the report in The New Yorker, by the veteran journalist Jane Mayer, which laid out the sometimes symbiotic relationship between Mr. Trump and the network he follows closely. Network stars like Sean Hannity regularly advise the president, and Mr. Hannity spoke at a Trump campaign rally last year, high-fiving the president’s deputy chief of staff, Bill Shine, himself a former Fox News president. Other Fox News alumni, like Heather Nauert and Kimberly Guilfoyle, have joined the administration or Mr. Trump’s inner circle. Ms. Mayer stated that Fox News had buried a damaging story about Mr. Trump ahead of the 2016 election; the Fox executive involved said he blocked the reporting because he did not think it was journalistically sound. Ms. Mayer also cited unnamed sources who said they were told by a witness that Mr. Trump was fed questions ahead of a Fox-sponsored primary debate in 2015. The network strongly denied that charge, and Ms. Kelly, who served as a debate moderator, has said she does not believe that her questions were leaked. Mr. Perez said on Wednesday that Ms. Mayer’s article “led me to conclude” that Fox News was not fit to sponsor an official candidate forum. So far, the Democrats have announced two primary debates for their candidates, which will air in June on NBC News and in July on CNN. The decision to exclude Fox News was first reported by The Washington Post. Executives at Fox News say they are open to sponsoring another televised town hall — albeit one without the imprimatur of the Democratic Party — in the coming months. The network is free to invite candidates to appear, and candidates are free to accept. Mr. Wallace, Mr. Baier and Ms. MacCallum have each interviewed Mr. Trump during his tenure. Fox News did not sponsor a formal debate during the 2016 Democratic nominating process, but it did host a town hall featuring Hillary Clinton and Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont in March 2016; Mr. Baier served as moderator. Relations between political parties and news networks are not always smooth. In 2016, Republican officials stripped a debate from NBC News after alleging that a previous event, conducted by the network’s corporate sibling CNBC, was “petty and meanspirited in tone,” according to the party’s then-chairman, Reince Priebus.  

Supported by By Michael M. Grynbaum and Astead W. Herndon The Democratic National Committee said on Wednesday that it had barred Fox News from hosting or televising a candidate debate for the party’s 2020 primary election, an unusually pointed rebuke of a cable news channel whose star pundits are closely aligned with President Trump. The committee’s chairman, Tom Perez, said in a statement that Fox News “is not in a position to host a fair and neutral debate for our candidates.” Mr. Perez cited an article published this week by The New Yorker that reported on ties between the president and the network, which he deemed an “inappropriate relationship.” Fox News, which devotes its prime-time hours to pro-Trump commentary, was seen in broadcast circles as a long shot to sponsor a gathering of Democratic candidates. But the network had made an aggressive pitch to party officials, noting, for instance, that the “Fox News Sunday” anchor, Chris Wallace, had won plaudits after moderating the third general election debate in 2016. “We hope the D.N.C. will reconsider its decision to bar Chris Wallace, Bret Baier and Martha MacCallum, all of whom embody the ultimate journalistic integrity and professionalism, from moderating a Democratic presidential debate,” Bill Sammon, managing editor of Fox News’s Washington bureau, said in a statement. “They offer candidates an important opportunity to make their case to the largest TV news audience in America, which includes many persuadable voters.” Mr. Trump weighed in Wednesday evening, sarcastically praising the Democrats’ decision. “Good, then I think I’ll do the same thing with the Fake News Networks and the Radical Left Democrats in the General Election debates!” he wrote on Twitter. The president often tweets idle threats. But his message raised the prospect that Mr. Trump could boycott a debate in the 2020 race if he took issue with the network affiliation of a chosen moderator. General election debates are not sponsored by individual networks; they are overseen by an independent commission and typically aired on all major stations. In early 2016, Mr. Trump did boycott a primary debate — which was sponsored by Fox News. He had objected to the inclusion of the anchor Megyn Kelly as a moderator. Televised debates are a relatively new innovation in the presidential primary process, but they have become sought-after events for networks eager to score high ratings and serve as gatekeepers in the early months of the nominating cycle, when viewers are forming their initial impressions of the candidates. Democratic officials had signaled some openness to collaborating with Fox News on a debate in 2019 or 2020, saying they were trying to reach a broad national audience. But the party came under pressure this week after the report in The New Yorker, by the veteran journalist Jane Mayer, which laid out the sometimes symbiotic relationship between Mr. Trump and the network he follows closely. Network stars like Sean Hannity regularly advise the president, and Mr. Hannity spoke at a Trump campaign rally last year, high-fiving the president’s deputy chief of staff, Bill Shine, himself a former Fox News president. Other Fox News alumni, like Heather Nauert and Kimberly Guilfoyle, have joined the administration or Mr. Trump’s inner circle. Ms. Mayer stated that Fox News had buried a damaging story about Mr. Trump ahead of the 2016 election; the Fox executive involved said he blocked the reporting because he did not think it was journalistically sound. Ms. Mayer also cited unnamed sources who said they were told by a witness that Mr. Trump was fed questions ahead of a Fox-sponsored primary debate in 2015. The network strongly denied that charge, and Ms. Kelly, who served as a debate moderator, has said she does not believe that her questions were leaked. Mr. Perez said on Wednesday that Ms. Mayer’s article “led me to conclude” that Fox News was not fit to sponsor an official candidate forum. So far, the Democrats have announced two primary debates for their candidates, which will air in June on NBC News and in July on CNN. The decision to exclude Fox News was first reported by The Washington Post. Executives at Fox News say they are open to sponsoring another televised town hall — albeit one without the imprimatur of the Democratic Party — in the coming months. The network is free to invite candidates to appear, and candidates are free to accept. Mr. Wallace, Mr. Baier and Ms. MacCallum have each interviewed Mr. Trump during his tenure. Fox News did not sponsor a formal debate during the 2016 Democratic nominating process, but it did host a town hall featuring Hillary Clinton and Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont in March 2016; Mr. Baier served as moderator. Relations between political parties and news networks are not always smooth. In 2016, Republican officials stripped a debate from NBC News after alleging that a previous event, conducted by the network’s corporate sibling CNBC, was “petty and meanspirited in tone,” according to the party’s then-chairman, Reince Priebus.  Supported by The decision not to debate on Fox is shortsighted and could hurt the party and its candidates.  By Liz Mair Ms. Mair is a Republican strategist.  The Democratic National Committee’s decision to bar Fox News from hosting a 2020 Democratic presidential primary debate will undoubtedly, and understandably, prove to be a popular decision with the party’s core, primarily coastal base. But it’s also very shortsighted and could hurt the party and its candidates. In the minds of many progressive Democrats, Fox News may be synonymous with Sean Hannity. But in the minds of many other Americans, Fox News is synonymous with what they put on to watch Bret Baier, Shepard Smith or Chris Wallace. These Fox News anchors and personalities do not do the bidding of the Trump administration — go find Mr. Wallace’s recent grilling of the Trump anti-immigration White House policy adviser Stephen Miller if you’re unsure. It’s not a given that their viewers are entirely die-hard Trump fans, or even Republicans. Fox News — the actual news part — is indeed consumed by some Democrats and independents. And its viewership numbers are big enough that the D.N.C. is, in its way, cutting off its nose to spite its face by leaving those potential voters on the table and unspoken to. According to a 2017 Pew Research Center survey, 3 percent of 2016 Hillary Clinton voters cited Fox as their principal news source, exactly one percentage point behind the number who cited NBC and two points behind those who cited The New York Times as the “main source” of their news. Critically, Pew asked its question about “main sources” in an open-ended way; they were not pushing anyone to reply “Fox News.” Pew data from 2014 shows similar trends: 5 percent of people who called themselves “mostly liberal” cited Fox News as their “main source” of news about government and politics (the same number as cited MSNBC). So did 8 percent of those with “mixed” political views (MSNBC didn’t rate with them at all). According to New York Times reporting from 2012, a quarter of “Fox and Friends” viewers were Democrats or Democratic leaners; 9 percent were independents. It’s possible that in the era of Trump, those numbers have shifted a lot. It’s also possible that every Democrat or independent who watches Fox is a “hate viewer” or views it on mute just to see super-telegenic anchors smiling and looking friendly. But it’s more likely given that Fox has been the most-watched cable network for 17 years straight, some people who tune in are people Democrats actually want and need to vote for their candidates. That will be especially the case if the economy starts to sour — February’s job numbers offer a hint of that — and voters who were previously more favorable to Mr. Trump start to turn on him. That could easily happen in places where Fox is most likely consumed more by Democrats and independents — like Iowa, the first caucus state, where many farmers are reeling from the effect of Mr. Trump’s tariffs and where, in a packed primary field, 10 votes here or 10 votes there might make the difference between who emerges as a real contender for the nomination and who is culled straight out of the gate. This was presumably the logic behind Senator Kirsten Gillibrand’s decision to sit down for an interview with Mr. Wallace last month. Some Democrats criticized her for it, but according to a Washington Post media reporter, over two million people tuned in. Compare that with CNN’s town halls with Senator Bernie Sanders (1.35 million viewers), Senator Kamala Harris (1.95 million), Senator Amy Klobuchar (1.15 million) and Howard Schultz (1.02 million). Ms. Gillibrand may be on to something here, even if the Democratic Party as a whole is not. As a Republican who watches CNN and does not plan to vote in Virginia’s Democratic primary next year, I’d say Ms. Gillibrand probably is. I bet the conservative commentator and talk-radio host Erick Erickson, who “prefers” CNN to Fox but has pledged to vote for Mr. Trump, agrees. Apart from those numbers and facts, there’s another reason Democrats shouldn’t bar Fox News from hosting a debate. Ever heard the old political saying that you should never pick a fight with someone who buys ink by the barrel? It’s actually true. Diving into the “media bias” trough and attacking actual news organizations — and Fox News is one, as demonstrated by a roster of reporters that includes John Roberts and Ed Henry — is the last refuge of losing political organizations and candidates who will not triumph on the day. It’s an easy “base hit” that gins up existing supporters and makes them extra-motivated by feeling hard done by media elites. In some cases, it may even be 100 percent true. But think about it historically: Virtually every time you see a candidate or political group respond by explicitly screaming “media bias,” they end up losing the election they are fighting to win or whatever battle they find themselves in. It happened in 2008, it happened in 2012, and it happened in 2016. The D.N.C. people do not want to play that game, even if short-term they think it’s good for getting people who otherwise could not give a monkey’s uncle about the committee to pony up more $5 and $10 donations. (It probably will be, and very likely that’s a lot of what this is about.)  Smart political campaigns are about looking ahead to where things will most likely stand and what votes will be needed on Election Day — or the beginning of early voting — and not responding to whatever the drama of the day or the week is. Democrats hate Fox, and the pressure not to lend them credibility or “punish” it by allowing it to host a debate is immense.  But giving into it is ultimately more likely than not to prove shortsighted and pointless. The “no Fox debate” rabble rousers will vote Democratic anyway; those Democrats and independents watching Fox might not. Suck it up and do the debate. It’s the smarter move strategically. Liz Mair, who was a strategist for campaigns by Scott Walker, Roy Blunt, Rand Paul, Carly Fiorina and Rick Perry, is the founder and president of Mair Strategies. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported by The decision not to debate on Fox is shortsighted and could hurt the party and its candidates.  By Liz Mair Ms. Mair is a Republican strategist.  The Democratic National Committee’s decision to bar Fox News from hosting a 2020 Democratic presidential primary debate will undoubtedly, and understandably, prove to be a popular decision with the party’s core, primarily coastal base. But it’s also very shortsighted and could hurt the party and its candidates. In the minds of many progressive Democrats, Fox News may be synonymous with Sean Hannity. But in the minds of many other Americans, Fox News is synonymous with what they put on to watch Bret Baier, Shepard Smith or Chris Wallace. These Fox News anchors and personalities do not do the bidding of the Trump administration — go find Mr. Wallace’s recent grilling of the Trump anti-immigration White House policy adviser Stephen Miller if you’re unsure. It’s not a given that their viewers are entirely die-hard Trump fans, or even Republicans. Fox News — the actual news part — is indeed consumed by some Democrats and independents. And its viewership numbers are big enough that the D.N.C. is, in its way, cutting off its nose to spite its face by leaving those potential voters on the table and unspoken to. According to a 2017 Pew Research Center survey, 3 percent of 2016 Hillary Clinton voters cited Fox as their principal news source, exactly one percentage point behind the number who cited NBC and two points behind those who cited The New York Times as the “main source” of their news. Critically, Pew asked its question about “main sources” in an open-ended way; they were not pushing anyone to reply “Fox News.” Pew data from 2014 shows similar trends: 5 percent of people who called themselves “mostly liberal” cited Fox News as their “main source” of news about government and politics (the same number as cited MSNBC). So did 8 percent of those with “mixed” political views (MSNBC didn’t rate with them at all). According to New York Times reporting from 2012, a quarter of “Fox and Friends” viewers were Democrats or Democratic leaners; 9 percent were independents. It’s possible that in the era of Trump, those numbers have shifted a lot. It’s also possible that every Democrat or independent who watches Fox is a “hate viewer” or views it on mute just to see super-telegenic anchors smiling and looking friendly. But it’s more likely given that Fox has been the most-watched cable network for 17 years straight, some people who tune in are people Democrats actually want and need to vote for their candidates. That will be especially the case if the economy starts to sour — February’s job numbers offer a hint of that — and voters who were previously more favorable to Mr. Trump start to turn on him. That could easily happen in places where Fox is most likely consumed more by Democrats and independents — like Iowa, the first caucus state, where many farmers are reeling from the effect of Mr. Trump’s tariffs and where, in a packed primary field, 10 votes here or 10 votes there might make the difference between who emerges as a real contender for the nomination and who is culled straight out of the gate. This was presumably the logic behind Senator Kirsten Gillibrand’s decision to sit down for an interview with Mr. Wallace last month. Some Democrats criticized her for it, but according to a Washington Post media reporter, over two million people tuned in. Compare that with CNN’s town halls with Senator Bernie Sanders (1.35 million viewers), Senator Kamala Harris (1.95 million), Senator Amy Klobuchar (1.15 million) and Howard Schultz (1.02 million). Ms. Gillibrand may be on to something here, even if the Democratic Party as a whole is not. As a Republican who watches CNN and does not plan to vote in Virginia’s Democratic primary next year, I’d say Ms. Gillibrand probably is. I bet the conservative commentator and talk-radio host Erick Erickson, who “prefers” CNN to Fox but has pledged to vote for Mr. Trump, agrees. Apart from those numbers and facts, there’s another reason Democrats shouldn’t bar Fox News from hosting a debate. Ever heard the old political saying that you should never pick a fight with someone who buys ink by the barrel? It’s actually true. Diving into the “media bias” trough and attacking actual news organizations — and Fox News is one, as demonstrated by a roster of reporters that includes John Roberts and Ed Henry — is the last refuge of losing political organizations and candidates who will not triumph on the day. It’s an easy “base hit” that gins up existing supporters and makes them extra-motivated by feeling hard done by media elites. In some cases, it may even be 100 percent true. But think about it historically: Virtually every time you see a candidate or political group respond by explicitly screaming “media bias,” they end up losing the election they are fighting to win or whatever battle they find themselves in. It happened in 2008, it happened in 2012, and it happened in 2016. The D.N.C. people do not want to play that game, even if short-term they think it’s good for getting people who otherwise could not give a monkey’s uncle about the committee to pony up more $5 and $10 donations. (It probably will be, and very likely that’s a lot of what this is about.)  Smart political campaigns are about looking ahead to where things will most likely stand and what votes will be needed on Election Day — or the beginning of early voting — and not responding to whatever the drama of the day or the week is. Democrats hate Fox, and the pressure not to lend them credibility or “punish” it by allowing it to host a debate is immense.  But giving into it is ultimately more likely than not to prove shortsighted and pointless. The “no Fox debate” rabble rousers will vote Democratic anyway; those Democrats and independents watching Fox might not. Suck it up and do the debate. It’s the smarter move strategically. Liz Mair, who was a strategist for campaigns by Scott Walker, Roy Blunt, Rand Paul, Carly Fiorina and Rick Perry, is the founder and president of Mair Strategies. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Supported by By Michael M. Grynbaum In an unusual reproach, Fox News on Monday criticized one of its star personalities, Jeanine Pirro, after the host questioned if a Muslim lawmaker’s religious beliefs undermined her loyalty to the United States. The network has not yet commented on remarks by another of its prime-time stars, Tucker Carlson, who faced a second day of scrutiny after the left-wing advocacy group Media Matters for America exhumed offensive comments he made on a shock-jock radio program about a decade ago. In excerpts published by Media Matters, Mr. Carlson, calling into the “Bubba the Love Sponge” show, mused in 2006 that “arranging a marriage between a 16-year-old and a 27-year-old is not the same as pulling a stranger off the street and raping her.” On the Monday episode of his 8 p.m. program on Fox News, “Tucker Carlson Tonight,” the host cast himself as a target of a liberal “mob” and suggested that the political left wanted to shut down his network. “Fox News is behind us as they have been from the very first day,” Mr. Carlson told viewers. He added: “We will never bow to the mob. Ever. No matter what.” As Mr. Carlson was speaking, Media Matters released a second batch of excerpts from his appearances on the “Bubba” radio program, including a clip from 2008 in which Mr. Carlson described Iraq as “a crappy place filled with a bunch of, you know, semiliterate primitive monkeys — that’s why it wasn’t worth invading.” Calling into the show in 2006, Mr. Carlson said of Barack Obama, then an Illinois senator, “How is he black, for one thing? He has one white parent, one black parent.” Fox News has long grappled with fallout from incendiary remarks by its commentators. In 2017, Ms. Pirro was criticized for saying that prosecutors investigating President Trump “need to be taken out in cuffs.” Another host, Laura Ingraham, lost advertisers after she mocked students who survived the Parkland, Fla., school shooting, and after she referred to American facilities holding immigrant children as “essentially summer camps.” Still, the network has faced unusually sharp scrutiny over the past week, starting with an article in The New Yorker that chronicled the close-knit relationship between Mr. Trump’s inner circle and Fox News personnel. One network alumnus in the White House, the deputy chief of staff Bill Shine, resigned from his position on Friday after a brief, bumpy tenure. On Saturday night, Ms. Pirro, the prosecutor turned politician turned TV host who is close to Mr. Trump, attacked Representative Ilhan Omar, Democrat of Minnesota, in the opening remarks of her weekend show, “Justice With Judge Jeanine.” “Think about it: Omar wears a hijab,” Ms. Pirro said. “Is her adherence to this Islamic doctrine indicative of her adherence to Shariah law, which in itself is antithetical to the United States Constitution?” Her comments were widely condemned as prejudiced, including by a Fox News producer, Hufsa Kamal, who wrote to Ms. Pirro on Twitter: “can you stop spreading this false narrative that somehow Muslims hate America or women who wear a hijab aren’t American enough? You have Muslims working at the same network you do, including myself.” Fox News responded on Sunday, about 24 hours after Ms. Pirro’s show was aired. “We strongly condemn Jeanine Pirro’s comments about Representative Ilhan Omar. They do not reflect those of the network and we have addressed the matter with her directly,” the network said in a statement. Ms. Pirro, whose fiery monologues have helped her show’s ratings, sounded less contrite. “I’ve seen a lot of comments about my opening statement from Saturday night’s show and I did not call Representative Omar un-American,” she wrote in a separate statement. “My intention was to ask a question and start a debate, but of course because one is Muslim does not mean you don’t support the Constitution.” Ms. Omar caused an uproar in Washington recently after making remarks in Congress that were attacked as anti-Semitic, leading the House to pass a resolution last week condemning intolerance. Mr. Carlson came under fire late Sunday after the initial report by Media Matters, including a clip in which he used lewd language to describe Alexis Stewart, the daughter of Martha Stewart, and said, “I just wanted to give her the spanking she so desperately needs.” Mr. Carlson, a provocateur who enjoys flouting notions of political correctness, has been called out for misogynist comments before. In 2015, he defended his brother after an email exchange showed his brother making deeply sexist remarks about a female aide to Mayor Bill de Blasio of New York. In a statement before his Monday show, Mr. Carlson did not apologize for his “Bubba” comments. “Media Matters caught me saying something naughty on a radio show more than a decade ago,” Mr. Carlson wrote. “Rather than express the usual ritual contrition, how about this: I’m on television every weeknight live for an hour. If you want to know what I think, you can watch. Anyone who disagrees with my views is welcome to come on and explain why.” Fox News is not the only cable news network that has had to grapple with a star anchor’s troubling past remarks. Joy-Ann Reid, the MSNBC host, apologized last year after revelations that she had published numerous homophobic posts and jokes on a blog that is now defunct. She also claimed without evidence that the homophobic remarks had been inserted by hackers intent on harming her reputation. MSNBC did not discipline Ms. Reid.   

Supported by By Michael M. Grynbaum In an unusual reproach, Fox News on Monday criticized one of its star personalities, Jeanine Pirro, after the host questioned if a Muslim lawmaker’s religious beliefs undermined her loyalty to the United States. The network has not yet commented on remarks by another of its prime-time stars, Tucker Carlson, who faced a second day of scrutiny after the left-wing advocacy group Media Matters for America exhumed offensive comments he made on a shock-jock radio program about a decade ago. In excerpts published by Media Matters, Mr. Carlson, calling into the “Bubba the Love Sponge” show, mused in 2006 that “arranging a marriage between a 16-year-old and a 27-year-old is not the same as pulling a stranger off the street and raping her.” On the Monday episode of his 8 p.m. program on Fox News, “Tucker Carlson Tonight,” the host cast himself as a target of a liberal “mob” and suggested that the political left wanted to shut down his network. “Fox News is behind us as they have been from the very first day,” Mr. Carlson told viewers. He added: “We will never bow to the mob. Ever. No matter what.” As Mr. Carlson was speaking, Media Matters released a second batch of excerpts from his appearances on the “Bubba” radio program, including a clip from 2008 in which Mr. Carlson described Iraq as “a crappy place filled with a bunch of, you know, semiliterate primitive monkeys — that’s why it wasn’t worth invading.” Calling into the show in 2006, Mr. Carlson said of Barack Obama, then an Illinois senator, “How is he black, for one thing? He has one white parent, one black parent.” Fox News has long grappled with fallout from incendiary remarks by its commentators. In 2017, Ms. Pirro was criticized for saying that prosecutors investigating President Trump “need to be taken out in cuffs.” Another host, Laura Ingraham, lost advertisers after she mocked students who survived the Parkland, Fla., school shooting, and after she referred to American facilities holding immigrant children as “essentially summer camps.” Still, the network has faced unusually sharp scrutiny over the past week, starting with an article in The New Yorker that chronicled the close-knit relationship between Mr. Trump’s inner circle and Fox News personnel. One network alumnus in the White House, the deputy chief of staff Bill Shine, resigned from his position on Friday after a brief, bumpy tenure. On Saturday night, Ms. Pirro, the prosecutor turned politician turned TV host who is close to Mr. Trump, attacked Representative Ilhan Omar, Democrat of Minnesota, in the opening remarks of her weekend show, “Justice With Judge Jeanine.” “Think about it: Omar wears a hijab,” Ms. Pirro said. “Is her adherence to this Islamic doctrine indicative of her adherence to Shariah law, which in itself is antithetical to the United States Constitution?” Her comments were widely condemned as prejudiced, including by a Fox News producer, Hufsa Kamal, who wrote to Ms. Pirro on Twitter: “can you stop spreading this false narrative that somehow Muslims hate America or women who wear a hijab aren’t American enough? You have Muslims working at the same network you do, including myself.” Fox News responded on Sunday, about 24 hours after Ms. Pirro’s show was aired. “We strongly condemn Jeanine Pirro’s comments about Representative Ilhan Omar. They do not reflect those of the network and we have addressed the matter with her directly,” the network said in a statement. Ms. Pirro, whose fiery monologues have helped her show’s ratings, sounded less contrite. “I’ve seen a lot of comments about my opening statement from Saturday night’s show and I did not call Representative Omar un-American,” she wrote in a separate statement. “My intention was to ask a question and start a debate, but of course because one is Muslim does not mean you don’t support the Constitution.” Ms. Omar caused an uproar in Washington recently after making remarks in Congress that were attacked as anti-Semitic, leading the House to pass a resolution last week condemning intolerance. Mr. Carlson came under fire late Sunday after the initial report by Media Matters, including a clip in which he used lewd language to describe Alexis Stewart, the daughter of Martha Stewart, and said, “I just wanted to give her the spanking she so desperately needs.” Mr. Carlson, a provocateur who enjoys flouting notions of political correctness, has been called out for misogynist comments before. In 2015, he defended his brother after an email exchange showed his brother making deeply sexist remarks about a female aide to Mayor Bill de Blasio of New York. In a statement before his Monday show, Mr. Carlson did not apologize for his “Bubba” comments. “Media Matters caught me saying something naughty on a radio show more than a decade ago,” Mr. Carlson wrote. “Rather than express the usual ritual contrition, how about this: I’m on television every weeknight live for an hour. If you want to know what I think, you can watch. Anyone who disagrees with my views is welcome to come on and explain why.” Fox News is not the only cable news network that has had to grapple with a star anchor’s troubling past remarks. Joy-Ann Reid, the MSNBC host, apologized last year after revelations that she had published numerous homophobic posts and jokes on a blog that is now defunct. She also claimed without evidence that the homophobic remarks had been inserted by hackers intent on harming her reputation. MSNBC did not discipline Ms. Reid.   Supported by By Michael M. Grynbaum and Sydney Ember There is an unlikely new hot spot for Democratic candidates: Fox News. President Trump’s favorite network is increasingly playing host to hopefuls from the Democratic presidential field, eager for exposure to the vast Fox News audience — even as they risk a backlash from others in the party who view the network as an ideological menace. The expedition into what many liberals consider enemy territory picked up this week after Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont appeared at a town hall on the network, drawing the biggest television audience of any 2020 Democratic candidate so far — more than 2.5 million people — while pitching himself to Trump-leaning viewers who may be willing to cross party lines next year. On Wednesday, Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota said she had agreed to a Fox News town hall-style event next month. Mayor Pete Buttigieg of South Bend, Ind., is in advanced talks with the network. Julián Castro, the former housing secretary, is close to signing on, and Senators Kirsten Gillibrand of New York and Cory Booker of New Jersey say they are open to the idea. The debate over whether to appear on Fox News reflects in some ways a larger divide in the party as it ponders how to retake the White House: Should Democrats focus on expanding and mobilizing the various coalitions that make up their base, or seek inroads with the millions of Americans who supported Mr. Trump in 2016? For Mr. Buttigieg’s ascendant campaign, the answer, in a saturated media age, was easy. “We are going to talk to voters everywhere and we are going to meet them where they are,” said Lis Smith, who oversees media strategy for Mr. Buttigieg, who in March became the first 2020 Democratic candidate to sit for an interview with Chris Wallace on “Fox News Sunday.” “The outdated approach of taking a calculated and risk-averse approach to the media needs to be put in the past.” “Voters are going to reward fearlessness,” Ms. Smith added, “even if that comes with a mistake here or there.” [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] Fox News town halls are moderated by news anchors like Bret Baier, not the network’s hard-right commentators. But the fealty that pundits like Sean Hannity show to Mr. Trump have many establishment Democrats apprehensive. Last month, the Democratic National Committee took the unusual step of barring Fox News from sponsoring any of its presidential primary debates, saying its “inappropriate relationship” with the administration made it unfit to stage a fair event. Critics say that Democrats who go on the network lend credibility to a platform that many liberal voters view as xenophobic, toxic and an incorrigible mouthpiece for the president. “I understand the short-term incentives for Bernie Sanders and Pete Buttigieg to appear on Fox News, but putting an imprimatur of legitimacy on one of the most destructive forces in American politics has long-term consequences,” Dan Pfeiffer, a former senior adviser to President Barack Obama and a host of the liberal podcast “Pod Save America,” wrote on Twitter on Tuesday. (Ms. Smith fired back, noting on Twitter that Mr. Obama had sat for interviews with the former Fox News star Bill O’Reilly.) Even Mr. Trump seemed mystified to see Mr. Sanders, one of his sharpest critics, granted Fox News airtime to call the president a “pathological liar,” among other epithets. “So weird to watch Crazy Bernie on @FoxNews,” Mr. Trump tweeted on Tuesday, as a loyal viewer displeased by an unexpected story arc. “What’s with @FoxNews?” the president wrote. Mr. Trump has been complaining about Fox News for many months. But the campaign’s strategy is to depict Democrats as too extreme for the country, and it fears that candidates will seem more presentable if Fox News introduces them in a friendly way. Mr. Trump and some of his advisers are also irked that Fox News is showcasing not just Mr. Sanders, but a moderate like Ms. Klobuchar of Minnesota, a Midwest state where the Trump campaign is looking to make headway, according to people familiar with their thinking. [Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.] Mr. Sanders received generally positive reviews for his appearance on Fox News, but other Democrats remain wary. Senator Kamala Harris of California, in an interview on “Pod Save America” on Wednesday, said she would “think about” appearing on Fox News, although she declined to commit. “I’m not excluding anyone in terms of trying to earn their vote and compete for their vote,” she said. “There’s a whole other conversation to be had about how Fox News does their work and the bias with which they do it.” Mr. Castro’s campaign, in its talks with the network, had questions about who the audience would be and whether the event would be conducted in a nonpartisan manner, according to Jennifer Fiore, a senior adviser. But it was satisfied with the responses it received, including that the audience would be made up of independents and Democrats. The appearance has not been scheduled, but the two sides appear close to setting a date. Mr. Castro “has always campaigned for every vote, Democrat and Republican,” Ms. Fiore said, noting that he had served as a mayor in a red state. Some Democratic strategists pointed out that an appearance on Fox News grants access to the top-rated cable news channel — the network routinely beats its rivals CNN and MSNBC in overall ratings — along with the favorable optics of wading into the lion’s den, essentially signaling to voters that a candidate is unafraid to engage with a challenging moderator and a potentially skeptical audience. Others note that in last year’s midterm elections, Democrats were able to wrest four Midwestern governorships from Republicans, including three in states Mr. Trump captured in 2016 — showing the value of trying to win back voters in that region who might be disenchanted with the president. “It’s just a smart place to be,” said Tad Devine, Mr. Sanders’s longtime strategist, who is not working for his campaign this year. “In politics, the downsides are inevitable. You have to weigh them against the upsides. And the upside is you get to talk to millions of people.” And maybe rally the faithful, too. After Mr. Sanders’s appearance Monday, he blasted out a fund-raising appeal about it to his supporters, embedding a Fox News clip in which audience members cheered his “Medicare for all” plans. “Last night Bernie showed why he is the best candidate to beat Trump,” the email declared. Other Democrats argue that the Fox News audience is unnecessary, pointing to the excitement surrounding candidates like former Representative Beto O’Rourke, whose unapologetically liberal run for the Senate in Texas last year galvanized voters and donors, pushing him to within three points of victory. Then there is a broader concern that the symbiosis between Fox News stars and the Trump administration means the network will not treat Democrats fairly. On Monday, hours before Mr. Sanders went on the network, the chairman of the D.N.C. told a Fox News interviewer that he had no plans to reconsider his decision to bar the network from sponsoring an official party debate. “I don’t have faith in your leadership at Fox News at the senior levels,” the chairman, Tom Perez, told the anchor Bill Hemmer. Mr. Hemmer, who works on the reporting side of the network, pushed back, comparing Fox News’s opinion programming to that of a newspaper’s editorial page. “We’ll give you a fair shake,” he said. That argument has been echoed by Fox News executives, who say that the Democrats’ debate decision was shortsighted and that the network’s reporters serve as neutral journalists. Mr. Wallace won praise in 2016 for his moderating of the third presidential debate. Fox News declined to comment for this article. Lesser-known candidates like Andrew Yang, a former tech executive, and Representative Tulsi Gabbard of Hawaii have made appearances in shorter segments on the network. But Mr. Sanders is currently a front-runner in the Democratic race, and his extended appearance Monday represented a bigger leap. The audience on Monday was significantly larger than the 1.95 million who watched Ms. Harris on CNN in January, the previous benchmark for televised town halls. Mr. Sanders attracted more viewers between the ages of 25 and 54, the key demographic in cable news, than the same night’s broadcast of Rachel Maddow, who is MSNBC’s top-rated star. Still, some candidates remain on the fence. And others seem ready to dodge the subject completely.  Asked on Tuesday if she would participate in a Fox News town hall, Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts told a reporter to speak to her communications director. “She’s the one figuring out where we’re going to go and who we’re talking to,” Ms. Warren said. Contacted on Wednesday, the communications director, Kristen Orthman, declined to comment. Maggie Haberman and Nick Corasaniti contributed reporting.   

Supported by By Michael M. Grynbaum and Sydney Ember There is an unlikely new hot spot for Democratic candidates: Fox News. President Trump’s favorite network is increasingly playing host to hopefuls from the Democratic presidential field, eager for exposure to the vast Fox News audience — even as they risk a backlash from others in the party who view the network as an ideological menace. The expedition into what many liberals consider enemy territory picked up this week after Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont appeared at a town hall on the network, drawing the biggest television audience of any 2020 Democratic candidate so far — more than 2.5 million people — while pitching himself to Trump-leaning viewers who may be willing to cross party lines next year. On Wednesday, Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota said she had agreed to a Fox News town hall-style event next month. Mayor Pete Buttigieg of South Bend, Ind., is in advanced talks with the network. Julián Castro, the former housing secretary, is close to signing on, and Senators Kirsten Gillibrand of New York and Cory Booker of New Jersey say they are open to the idea. The debate over whether to appear on Fox News reflects in some ways a larger divide in the party as it ponders how to retake the White House: Should Democrats focus on expanding and mobilizing the various coalitions that make up their base, or seek inroads with the millions of Americans who supported Mr. Trump in 2016? For Mr. Buttigieg’s ascendant campaign, the answer, in a saturated media age, was easy. “We are going to talk to voters everywhere and we are going to meet them where they are,” said Lis Smith, who oversees media strategy for Mr. Buttigieg, who in March became the first 2020 Democratic candidate to sit for an interview with Chris Wallace on “Fox News Sunday.” “The outdated approach of taking a calculated and risk-averse approach to the media needs to be put in the past.” “Voters are going to reward fearlessness,” Ms. Smith added, “even if that comes with a mistake here or there.” [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] Fox News town halls are moderated by news anchors like Bret Baier, not the network’s hard-right commentators. But the fealty that pundits like Sean Hannity show to Mr. Trump have many establishment Democrats apprehensive. Last month, the Democratic National Committee took the unusual step of barring Fox News from sponsoring any of its presidential primary debates, saying its “inappropriate relationship” with the administration made it unfit to stage a fair event. Critics say that Democrats who go on the network lend credibility to a platform that many liberal voters view as xenophobic, toxic and an incorrigible mouthpiece for the president. “I understand the short-term incentives for Bernie Sanders and Pete Buttigieg to appear on Fox News, but putting an imprimatur of legitimacy on one of the most destructive forces in American politics has long-term consequences,” Dan Pfeiffer, a former senior adviser to President Barack Obama and a host of the liberal podcast “Pod Save America,” wrote on Twitter on Tuesday. (Ms. Smith fired back, noting on Twitter that Mr. Obama had sat for interviews with the former Fox News star Bill O’Reilly.) Even Mr. Trump seemed mystified to see Mr. Sanders, one of his sharpest critics, granted Fox News airtime to call the president a “pathological liar,” among other epithets. “So weird to watch Crazy Bernie on @FoxNews,” Mr. Trump tweeted on Tuesday, as a loyal viewer displeased by an unexpected story arc. “What’s with @FoxNews?” the president wrote. Mr. Trump has been complaining about Fox News for many months. But the campaign’s strategy is to depict Democrats as too extreme for the country, and it fears that candidates will seem more presentable if Fox News introduces them in a friendly way. Mr. Trump and some of his advisers are also irked that Fox News is showcasing not just Mr. Sanders, but a moderate like Ms. Klobuchar of Minnesota, a Midwest state where the Trump campaign is looking to make headway, according to people familiar with their thinking. [Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.] Mr. Sanders received generally positive reviews for his appearance on Fox News, but other Democrats remain wary. Senator Kamala Harris of California, in an interview on “Pod Save America” on Wednesday, said she would “think about” appearing on Fox News, although she declined to commit. “I’m not excluding anyone in terms of trying to earn their vote and compete for their vote,” she said. “There’s a whole other conversation to be had about how Fox News does their work and the bias with which they do it.” Mr. Castro’s campaign, in its talks with the network, had questions about who the audience would be and whether the event would be conducted in a nonpartisan manner, according to Jennifer Fiore, a senior adviser. But it was satisfied with the responses it received, including that the audience would be made up of independents and Democrats. The appearance has not been scheduled, but the two sides appear close to setting a date. Mr. Castro “has always campaigned for every vote, Democrat and Republican,” Ms. Fiore said, noting that he had served as a mayor in a red state. Some Democratic strategists pointed out that an appearance on Fox News grants access to the top-rated cable news channel — the network routinely beats its rivals CNN and MSNBC in overall ratings — along with the favorable optics of wading into the lion’s den, essentially signaling to voters that a candidate is unafraid to engage with a challenging moderator and a potentially skeptical audience. Others note that in last year’s midterm elections, Democrats were able to wrest four Midwestern governorships from Republicans, including three in states Mr. Trump captured in 2016 — showing the value of trying to win back voters in that region who might be disenchanted with the president. “It’s just a smart place to be,” said Tad Devine, Mr. Sanders’s longtime strategist, who is not working for his campaign this year. “In politics, the downsides are inevitable. You have to weigh them against the upsides. And the upside is you get to talk to millions of people.” And maybe rally the faithful, too. After Mr. Sanders’s appearance Monday, he blasted out a fund-raising appeal about it to his supporters, embedding a Fox News clip in which audience members cheered his “Medicare for all” plans. “Last night Bernie showed why he is the best candidate to beat Trump,” the email declared. Other Democrats argue that the Fox News audience is unnecessary, pointing to the excitement surrounding candidates like former Representative Beto O’Rourke, whose unapologetically liberal run for the Senate in Texas last year galvanized voters and donors, pushing him to within three points of victory. Then there is a broader concern that the symbiosis between Fox News stars and the Trump administration means the network will not treat Democrats fairly. On Monday, hours before Mr. Sanders went on the network, the chairman of the D.N.C. told a Fox News interviewer that he had no plans to reconsider his decision to bar the network from sponsoring an official party debate. “I don’t have faith in your leadership at Fox News at the senior levels,” the chairman, Tom Perez, told the anchor Bill Hemmer. Mr. Hemmer, who works on the reporting side of the network, pushed back, comparing Fox News’s opinion programming to that of a newspaper’s editorial page. “We’ll give you a fair shake,” he said. That argument has been echoed by Fox News executives, who say that the Democrats’ debate decision was shortsighted and that the network’s reporters serve as neutral journalists. Mr. Wallace won praise in 2016 for his moderating of the third presidential debate. Fox News declined to comment for this article. Lesser-known candidates like Andrew Yang, a former tech executive, and Representative Tulsi Gabbard of Hawaii have made appearances in shorter segments on the network. But Mr. Sanders is currently a front-runner in the Democratic race, and his extended appearance Monday represented a bigger leap. The audience on Monday was significantly larger than the 1.95 million who watched Ms. Harris on CNN in January, the previous benchmark for televised town halls. Mr. Sanders attracted more viewers between the ages of 25 and 54, the key demographic in cable news, than the same night’s broadcast of Rachel Maddow, who is MSNBC’s top-rated star. Still, some candidates remain on the fence. And others seem ready to dodge the subject completely.  Asked on Tuesday if she would participate in a Fox News town hall, Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts told a reporter to speak to her communications director. “She’s the one figuring out where we’re going to go and who we’re talking to,” Ms. Warren said. Contacted on Wednesday, the communications director, Kristen Orthman, declined to comment. Maggie Haberman and Nick Corasaniti contributed reporting.   Supported by Best of Late Night By Giovanni Russonello Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox. Samantha Bee made it clear on Wednesday that she was happy to see Kirstjen Nielsen go as secretary of homeland security. “Kirstjen is a lying ghoul who enforced policies that tore families apart and impacted thousands of lives,” Bee said in characteristically vitriolic terms. “She deserves to be shunned as hard as disgraced movie moguls and morning show hosts,” Bee added, showing photos of Harvey Weinstein and Matt Lauer. But she also worried that President Trump might replace Nielsen — who oversaw the administration’s notorious policy of separating migrant families trying to enter the country — with someone even more willing to enforce hard-line border policies. Before her ouster, Nielsen and Trump had been clashing over whether to embrace harsher measures, some of which Nielsen reportedly believed might fall outside the limits of the law. “This weekend Kirstjen Nielsen stepped down as homeland security secretary, presumably to spend more time with her family after a house fell on her sister.” — SAMANTHA BEE, showing the Wicked Witch of the West’s feet after she was crushed by a house in “The Wizard of Oz” “Nielsen’s problem is that she cares about petty details like, ‘Is this illegal,’ and ‘Will this accomplish anything,’ and ‘Will I be remembered as one of America’s greatest monsters?’ Trump has no patience for that kind of dithering. He wants maximum cruelty and he wants it now!” Nielsen’s firing is part of a larger bloodletting at the Department of Homeland Security, where various senior staff members have lost their jobs in the past week. Bee pointed out that two weeks ago, the Fox News host Lou Dobbs called on Trump to replace the department’s leadership. In order to prevent Trump from taking any more advice from Dobbs, Bee said a Good Samaritan ought to help Trump find better things to do with his weekends than watching Fox News. “That aired two Fridays ago on Dobbs’s show, which Trump watches religiously. I’m not sure what’s sadder: the state of our government or the fact that the president doesn’t have one friend to hang out with on weekends. Please, someone, be America’s greatest hero and befriend Donald Trump!” Scientists on Wednesday released the first known photo of a black hole. The image was blurry, but it clearly showed a fiery rim around a round dark spot. “Scientists this morning revealed the first image of a black hole, which was apparently taken on an early-2000s Nokia flip phone.” — SETH MEYERS “Behold, the dark hole (also what cat owners see when they wake up)!” — STEPHEN COLBERT “It’s kind of beautiful, isn’t it? Do you think this is where God keeps his weed?” — JIMMY KIMMEL “Americans saw that and said, ‘I have no idea what a black hole is, but I could really go for a glazed donut.’” — JIMMY FALLON Senator Bernie Sanders pledged this week to release 10 years of tax returns, and he admitted that they would show him to be a newly minted millionaire. Jimmy Fallon joked that the democratic socialist crusader probably feels awkward about his new riches. “Presidential candidate Bernie Sanders says that he’s going to release his tax returns on Monday, and thanks to his book sales they’re actually expected to show that Bernie is now a millionaire. Bernie Sanders is a millionaire! He’s pretty freaked out. He’s like, ‘Oh my God, the 1 percent is coming from inside the house! I am the 1 percent!” — JIMMY FALLON “The guy who’s spent his life ranting against millionaires is a millionaire. That’s like finding out Smokey the Bear is a pyromaniac. You know what I’m saying? It’s like finding out the Hamburglar is a vegan. You know? It’s like Joe Biden telling us he spent 40 years teaching classes on workplace harassment.” — JIMMY FALLON Bee marveled at the strange dynamics of Kellyanne and George Conway’s marriage. Jimmy Kimmel once again became “Judge James.” This time he decided the fate of a dog caught up in a custody battle between two former lovers. Adam Driver, who is starring alongside Keri Russell in the Broadway play “Burn This,” will talk to Seth Meyers on Thursday. Pointy ears and hairy feet: See who wore it best at the J.R.R. Tolkien-themed costume party at the Morgan Library & Museum in New York. Plus, Ideas for What to Watch Tonight: The 50 Best Movies on Netflix Right Now The 25 Best Films of the 21st Century The Best Movies on Amazon Prime Video Right Now

Supported by Best of Late Night By Giovanni Russonello Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox. Samantha Bee made it clear on Wednesday that she was happy to see Kirstjen Nielsen go as secretary of homeland security. “Kirstjen is a lying ghoul who enforced policies that tore families apart and impacted thousands of lives,” Bee said in characteristically vitriolic terms. “She deserves to be shunned as hard as disgraced movie moguls and morning show hosts,” Bee added, showing photos of Harvey Weinstein and Matt Lauer. But she also worried that President Trump might replace Nielsen — who oversaw the administration’s notorious policy of separating migrant families trying to enter the country — with someone even more willing to enforce hard-line border policies. Before her ouster, Nielsen and Trump had been clashing over whether to embrace harsher measures, some of which Nielsen reportedly believed might fall outside the limits of the law. “This weekend Kirstjen Nielsen stepped down as homeland security secretary, presumably to spend more time with her family after a house fell on her sister.” — SAMANTHA BEE, showing the Wicked Witch of the West’s feet after she was crushed by a house in “The Wizard of Oz” “Nielsen’s problem is that she cares about petty details like, ‘Is this illegal,’ and ‘Will this accomplish anything,’ and ‘Will I be remembered as one of America’s greatest monsters?’ Trump has no patience for that kind of dithering. He wants maximum cruelty and he wants it now!” Nielsen’s firing is part of a larger bloodletting at the Department of Homeland Security, where various senior staff members have lost their jobs in the past week. Bee pointed out that two weeks ago, the Fox News host Lou Dobbs called on Trump to replace the department’s leadership. In order to prevent Trump from taking any more advice from Dobbs, Bee said a Good Samaritan ought to help Trump find better things to do with his weekends than watching Fox News. “That aired two Fridays ago on Dobbs’s show, which Trump watches religiously. I’m not sure what’s sadder: the state of our government or the fact that the president doesn’t have one friend to hang out with on weekends. Please, someone, be America’s greatest hero and befriend Donald Trump!” Scientists on Wednesday released the first known photo of a black hole. The image was blurry, but it clearly showed a fiery rim around a round dark spot. “Scientists this morning revealed the first image of a black hole, which was apparently taken on an early-2000s Nokia flip phone.” — SETH MEYERS “Behold, the dark hole (also what cat owners see when they wake up)!” — STEPHEN COLBERT “It’s kind of beautiful, isn’t it? Do you think this is where God keeps his weed?” — JIMMY KIMMEL “Americans saw that and said, ‘I have no idea what a black hole is, but I could really go for a glazed donut.’” — JIMMY FALLON Senator Bernie Sanders pledged this week to release 10 years of tax returns, and he admitted that they would show him to be a newly minted millionaire. Jimmy Fallon joked that the democratic socialist crusader probably feels awkward about his new riches. “Presidential candidate Bernie Sanders says that he’s going to release his tax returns on Monday, and thanks to his book sales they’re actually expected to show that Bernie is now a millionaire. Bernie Sanders is a millionaire! He’s pretty freaked out. He’s like, ‘Oh my God, the 1 percent is coming from inside the house! I am the 1 percent!” — JIMMY FALLON “The guy who’s spent his life ranting against millionaires is a millionaire. That’s like finding out Smokey the Bear is a pyromaniac. You know what I’m saying? It’s like finding out the Hamburglar is a vegan. You know? It’s like Joe Biden telling us he spent 40 years teaching classes on workplace harassment.” — JIMMY FALLON Bee marveled at the strange dynamics of Kellyanne and George Conway’s marriage. Jimmy Kimmel once again became “Judge James.” This time he decided the fate of a dog caught up in a custody battle between two former lovers. Adam Driver, who is starring alongside Keri Russell in the Broadway play “Burn This,” will talk to Seth Meyers on Thursday. Pointy ears and hairy feet: See who wore it best at the J.R.R. Tolkien-themed costume party at the Morgan Library & Museum in New York. Plus, Ideas for What to Watch Tonight: The 50 Best Movies on Netflix Right Now The 25 Best Films of the 21st Century The Best Movies on Amazon Prime Video Right NowSupported by By Michael M. Grynbaum One evening in 1996, as the Yankees clinched their first World Series in 18 years, Donald J. Trump was presiding over a masquerade ball at his sprawling Westchester County estate. Mr. Trump intended to convert the home, a limestone mansion called Seven Springs, into a golf club, and he had recruited one of the county’s best-connected lawyers to help him do it: Albert J. Pirro Jr. The costume party was a lavish fund-raiser for Mr. Pirro’s wife, the Westchester district attorney, who greeted dozens of masked guests in her own striking get-up. Jeanine F. Pirro had dressed as Queen Isabella of Spain. “I was at the ballgame with George Steinbrenner, and it was great, just great,” Mr. Trump told an attendee at the time. “But this is just great, too.” At the time, Ms. Pirro seemed destined for political stardom. Her fiery style had earned her a spot on the national TV circuit as a pundit on the O. J. Simpson case. The New Yorker was preparing a fawning profile, complete with Helmut Newton portrait. A run for lieutenant governor was in the offing; a United States Senate seat not out of the question. But fates diverged for the luminaries in the room that night. Mr. Trump never got that golf course, though he eventually found success in bigger endeavors. Mr. Pirro would go to jail for tax evasion, tailed by rumors about Mafia ties and revelations that he fathered a child out of wedlock. And Ms. Pirro fell to earth. Though she was never charged, her husband’s crimes damaged her political hopes; a Senate run in 2005 collapsed after she stumbled over her announcement speech. Later, she admitted to trying to wiretap Mr. Pirro’s yacht to catch him in an affair. (The couple are now divorced.) She scratched out a second act in daytime TV, hosting a low-rated courtroom show with C-list guests like Joey Buttafuoco. Another series, “You the Jury,” was canceled after two episodes. And yet Ms. Pirro, 67, is in the midst of a late-in-life renaissance — as improbable and as polarizing as any of the twists in her unusual career. Banished to a Siberia time slot — Saturday at 9 p.m. — Ms. Pirro has used an unrelenting defense of President Trump to put her weekly Fox News show, “Justice With Judge Jeanine,” at the heart of the national political conversation. Stymied in her hopes for a Senate seat, she now has a direct line to the president. Her thunderous monologues calling for the imprisonment of federal prosecutors, or accusing the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, of treason, attract a devoted audience — not least in the West Wing, where Mr. Trump, a regular viewer, urges his millions of Twitter followers to tune in. “She was in the right place at the right time with the right approach, and she’s taken advantage of it,” said Rudolph W. Giuliani, the president’s lawyer and a frequent guest, who shared a table with Ms. Pirro at Mr. Trump’s 2005 wedding to Melania Knauss. Despite the Saturday time slot, Ms. Pirro averages an audience of more than two million viewers an episode. That’s more than the average number of people who watch the MSNBC host Chris Hayes on weeknights. “Saturday Night Live” parodied her on “Weekend Update” last month. The president has taken notice. “I like being on air with your beautiful ratings,” Mr. Trump told Ms. Pirro when he called in for a chummy interview in October, one of three he has granted the host. If “Meet the Press” is aimed at the Washington establishment, “Justice With Judge Jeanine” is red meat for the Make America Great Again set. “Judge Pirro has understood the MAGA movement since Day 1,” said Corey Lewandowski, Mr. Trump’s former campaign manager. Her reputation among pro-Trump conservatives has only grown since March, when she was suspended by Fox News after questioning the patriotism of Representative Ilhan Omar of Minnesota, asking on air if the Muslim lawmaker’s religious beliefs undermined her loyalty to the United States. The remark prompted protests at Fox headquarters and a rare intramural rebuke by the network, which renounced her comments. Ms. Pirro has a history of remarks deemed Islamophobic, declaring in 2015 that “we need to kill them, the radical Muslim terrorists hellbent on killing us.” But if the suspension was meant as punishment, it served only to supercharge her support from Mr. Trump, who tweeted a rallying cry: “Bring back @JudgeJeanine Pirro.” Ms. Pirro never apologized. When she made her return on March 30, her show drew 2.56 million viewers, beating the competition on ABC and CBS. For those who view Ms. Pirro as a camera-hungry opportunist — an accusation that has followed her from her days as a local prosecutor, when she sought out appearances with national TV hosts like Geraldo Rivera — her recent success is evidence of a willingness to bend principles for fame. “I couldn’t imagine many of those comments coming from the person I knew,” said Mayo Bartlett, a lawyer who served under Ms. Pirro as an assistant district attorney. “After 9/11, there were a lot of anti-Muslim and anti-Arab hate crimes, and I had the green light from her to prosecute those cases. We stood with that community when they were really being targeted.” A daughter of Lebanese-American parents, Ms. Pirro was raised Catholic in blue-collar Elmira, N.Y. Her mother was born in the United States, but spent much of her childhood in Beirut, where she later met Ms. Pirro’s father, a veteran of the United States Navy, after World War II. “I learned to fight from my mother,” Ms. Pirro wrote in a 2003 memoir. “She impressed upon me throughout my childhood that I had to fight for myself, and I had to help those who were not strong enough to fight for themselves.” Inspired by “Perry Mason,” Ms. Pirro dreamed of becoming a prosecutor, eventually starting one of the country’s first domestic-violence prosecution units. She was a centrist Republican in deep-blue New York, praised by Democrats like Geraldine Ferraro. Now the Council on American-Islamic Relations is calling for Ms. Pirro to be fired. Ibrahim Hooper, the group’s communications director, pointed to the arrest last week of a man who threatened to kill Ms. Omar. Ms. Pirro, he said, “contributes to the toxic atmosphere in which that kind of violent behavior rises to the surface.” Ms. Pirro declined to be interviewed for this article. In response to Mr. Hooper’s comment, Fox News referred to its prior statement condemning Ms. Pirro’s remarks about Ms. Omar, the Muslim lawmaker. On the air, Ms. Pirro has echoed comments from her past, particularly when she attacks the investigation into possible ties between Mr. Trump and Russia, which she recently called “the biggest scandal in American history, bar none.” In 2006, under investigation for bugging her husband’s boat, she called the inquiry a “witch hunt.” During Mr. Pirro’s trial in 2001, she denounced prosecutors for “a desperate attempt by them to bring me in this wherever they can.” Although Ms. Pirro signed the couple’s joint tax return, she maintained she was unaware of her husband’s misdeeds. His trial dredged up embarrassing details about the Pirros’ spending, like a $1,800 wrought-iron pen for Ms. Pirro’s two Vietnamese potbellied pigs, Wilbur and Homer. Fox News started “Justice With Judge Jeanine” in 2011. The show got a boost in 2015 from “The Jinx,” the popular HBO documentary about the real estate scion Robert Durst. As district attorney, Ms. Pirro reopened an investigation into the disappearance of Mr. Durst’s first wife. Though she never brought charges, Ms. Pirro later trailed Mr. Durst to his murder trial in Texas and spoke on TV so frequently about the case that she earned a gag order from the judge. Ms. Pirro’s book “He Killed Them All: Robert Durst and My Quest for Justice” was called a gift to Mr. Durst’s defense lawyers by her critics, who faulted her attacks on investigators involved in the case. Relatives of Mr. Durst’s slain wife challenged some of the book’s claims. And the co-author, Lisa DePaulo, sued Ms. Pirro, saying the host forced her to perform menial tasks and tried to include material that she knew to be untrue. (The lawsuit was dismissed last month.) On Instagram, Ms. Pirro presents a sunnier view of her life. She poses with her standard poodle, Sir Lancelot, and offers glimpses of her Westchester estate, which is outfitted Trump-style with imported marble. David Hebert, who served as a spokesman and assistant district attorney under Ms. Pirro, said in an interview that Ms. Pirro rose from setbacks “like a phoenix” and wished that critics knew her as “generous, kind, thoughtful.” “We did a lot of work in the district attorney’s office reaching out to people who are disadvantaged and disenfranchised, to women and children and immigrants,” recalled Mr. Hebert, who is now the city manager of Oakland Park, Fla. “We made a special point of communicating on a regular basis with people who were not legal that they should not fear law enforcement.” On Saturday, Ms. Pirro opened her Fox News program by lamenting the number of immigrants attempting to enter the United States. “One hundred thousand in one month, brought in just this past month,” she declared. “That’s what I just said — 100,000 in one month. That’s bigger than the town that I grew up in.” In an interview, Mr. Giuliani was asked if he thought it unseemly for Ms. Pirro, a former prosecutor, to describe Justice Department leaders as potential traitors plotting a coup. “Who better to criticize them,” Mr. Giuliani replied, “than someone who knows how it’s done?”   

Supported by By Michael M. Grynbaum One evening in 1996, as the Yankees clinched their first World Series in 18 years, Donald J. Trump was presiding over a masquerade ball at his sprawling Westchester County estate. Mr. Trump intended to convert the home, a limestone mansion called Seven Springs, into a golf club, and he had recruited one of the county’s best-connected lawyers to help him do it: Albert J. Pirro Jr. The costume party was a lavish fund-raiser for Mr. Pirro’s wife, the Westchester district attorney, who greeted dozens of masked guests in her own striking get-up. Jeanine F. Pirro had dressed as Queen Isabella of Spain. “I was at the ballgame with George Steinbrenner, and it was great, just great,” Mr. Trump told an attendee at the time. “But this is just great, too.” At the time, Ms. Pirro seemed destined for political stardom. Her fiery style had earned her a spot on the national TV circuit as a pundit on the O. J. Simpson case. The New Yorker was preparing a fawning profile, complete with Helmut Newton portrait. A run for lieutenant governor was in the offing; a United States Senate seat not out of the question. But fates diverged for the luminaries in the room that night. Mr. Trump never got that golf course, though he eventually found success in bigger endeavors. Mr. Pirro would go to jail for tax evasion, tailed by rumors about Mafia ties and revelations that he fathered a child out of wedlock. And Ms. Pirro fell to earth. Though she was never charged, her husband’s crimes damaged her political hopes; a Senate run in 2005 collapsed after she stumbled over her announcement speech. Later, she admitted to trying to wiretap Mr. Pirro’s yacht to catch him in an affair. (The couple are now divorced.) She scratched out a second act in daytime TV, hosting a low-rated courtroom show with C-list guests like Joey Buttafuoco. Another series, “You the Jury,” was canceled after two episodes. And yet Ms. Pirro, 67, is in the midst of a late-in-life renaissance — as improbable and as polarizing as any of the twists in her unusual career. Banished to a Siberia time slot — Saturday at 9 p.m. — Ms. Pirro has used an unrelenting defense of President Trump to put her weekly Fox News show, “Justice With Judge Jeanine,” at the heart of the national political conversation. Stymied in her hopes for a Senate seat, she now has a direct line to the president. Her thunderous monologues calling for the imprisonment of federal prosecutors, or accusing the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, of treason, attract a devoted audience — not least in the West Wing, where Mr. Trump, a regular viewer, urges his millions of Twitter followers to tune in. “She was in the right place at the right time with the right approach, and she’s taken advantage of it,” said Rudolph W. Giuliani, the president’s lawyer and a frequent guest, who shared a table with Ms. Pirro at Mr. Trump’s 2005 wedding to Melania Knauss. Despite the Saturday time slot, Ms. Pirro averages an audience of more than two million viewers an episode. That’s more than the average number of people who watch the MSNBC host Chris Hayes on weeknights. “Saturday Night Live” parodied her on “Weekend Update” last month. The president has taken notice. “I like being on air with your beautiful ratings,” Mr. Trump told Ms. Pirro when he called in for a chummy interview in October, one of three he has granted the host. If “Meet the Press” is aimed at the Washington establishment, “Justice With Judge Jeanine” is red meat for the Make America Great Again set. “Judge Pirro has understood the MAGA movement since Day 1,” said Corey Lewandowski, Mr. Trump’s former campaign manager. Her reputation among pro-Trump conservatives has only grown since March, when she was suspended by Fox News after questioning the patriotism of Representative Ilhan Omar of Minnesota, asking on air if the Muslim lawmaker’s religious beliefs undermined her loyalty to the United States. The remark prompted protests at Fox headquarters and a rare intramural rebuke by the network, which renounced her comments. Ms. Pirro has a history of remarks deemed Islamophobic, declaring in 2015 that “we need to kill them, the radical Muslim terrorists hellbent on killing us.” But if the suspension was meant as punishment, it served only to supercharge her support from Mr. Trump, who tweeted a rallying cry: “Bring back @JudgeJeanine Pirro.” Ms. Pirro never apologized. When she made her return on March 30, her show drew 2.56 million viewers, beating the competition on ABC and CBS. For those who view Ms. Pirro as a camera-hungry opportunist — an accusation that has followed her from her days as a local prosecutor, when she sought out appearances with national TV hosts like Geraldo Rivera — her recent success is evidence of a willingness to bend principles for fame. “I couldn’t imagine many of those comments coming from the person I knew,” said Mayo Bartlett, a lawyer who served under Ms. Pirro as an assistant district attorney. “After 9/11, there were a lot of anti-Muslim and anti-Arab hate crimes, and I had the green light from her to prosecute those cases. We stood with that community when they were really being targeted.” A daughter of Lebanese-American parents, Ms. Pirro was raised Catholic in blue-collar Elmira, N.Y. Her mother was born in the United States, but spent much of her childhood in Beirut, where she later met Ms. Pirro’s father, a veteran of the United States Navy, after World War II. “I learned to fight from my mother,” Ms. Pirro wrote in a 2003 memoir. “She impressed upon me throughout my childhood that I had to fight for myself, and I had to help those who were not strong enough to fight for themselves.” Inspired by “Perry Mason,” Ms. Pirro dreamed of becoming a prosecutor, eventually starting one of the country’s first domestic-violence prosecution units. She was a centrist Republican in deep-blue New York, praised by Democrats like Geraldine Ferraro. Now the Council on American-Islamic Relations is calling for Ms. Pirro to be fired. Ibrahim Hooper, the group’s communications director, pointed to the arrest last week of a man who threatened to kill Ms. Omar. Ms. Pirro, he said, “contributes to the toxic atmosphere in which that kind of violent behavior rises to the surface.” Ms. Pirro declined to be interviewed for this article. In response to Mr. Hooper’s comment, Fox News referred to its prior statement condemning Ms. Pirro’s remarks about Ms. Omar, the Muslim lawmaker. On the air, Ms. Pirro has echoed comments from her past, particularly when she attacks the investigation into possible ties between Mr. Trump and Russia, which she recently called “the biggest scandal in American history, bar none.” In 2006, under investigation for bugging her husband’s boat, she called the inquiry a “witch hunt.” During Mr. Pirro’s trial in 2001, she denounced prosecutors for “a desperate attempt by them to bring me in this wherever they can.” Although Ms. Pirro signed the couple’s joint tax return, she maintained she was unaware of her husband’s misdeeds. His trial dredged up embarrassing details about the Pirros’ spending, like a $1,800 wrought-iron pen for Ms. Pirro’s two Vietnamese potbellied pigs, Wilbur and Homer. Fox News started “Justice With Judge Jeanine” in 2011. The show got a boost in 2015 from “The Jinx,” the popular HBO documentary about the real estate scion Robert Durst. As district attorney, Ms. Pirro reopened an investigation into the disappearance of Mr. Durst’s first wife. Though she never brought charges, Ms. Pirro later trailed Mr. Durst to his murder trial in Texas and spoke on TV so frequently about the case that she earned a gag order from the judge. Ms. Pirro’s book “He Killed Them All: Robert Durst and My Quest for Justice” was called a gift to Mr. Durst’s defense lawyers by her critics, who faulted her attacks on investigators involved in the case. Relatives of Mr. Durst’s slain wife challenged some of the book’s claims. And the co-author, Lisa DePaulo, sued Ms. Pirro, saying the host forced her to perform menial tasks and tried to include material that she knew to be untrue. (The lawsuit was dismissed last month.) On Instagram, Ms. Pirro presents a sunnier view of her life. She poses with her standard poodle, Sir Lancelot, and offers glimpses of her Westchester estate, which is outfitted Trump-style with imported marble. David Hebert, who served as a spokesman and assistant district attorney under Ms. Pirro, said in an interview that Ms. Pirro rose from setbacks “like a phoenix” and wished that critics knew her as “generous, kind, thoughtful.” “We did a lot of work in the district attorney’s office reaching out to people who are disadvantaged and disenfranchised, to women and children and immigrants,” recalled Mr. Hebert, who is now the city manager of Oakland Park, Fla. “We made a special point of communicating on a regular basis with people who were not legal that they should not fear law enforcement.” On Saturday, Ms. Pirro opened her Fox News program by lamenting the number of immigrants attempting to enter the United States. “One hundred thousand in one month, brought in just this past month,” she declared. “That’s what I just said — 100,000 in one month. That’s bigger than the town that I grew up in.” In an interview, Mr. Giuliani was asked if he thought it unseemly for Ms. Pirro, a former prosecutor, to describe Justice Department leaders as potential traitors plotting a coup. “Who better to criticize them,” Mr. Giuliani replied, “than someone who knows how it’s done?”   Supported by By Michael M. Grynbaum Chris Wallace sounded a little bit wistful, and a little bit wry. “I’m disappointed,” he said by telephone on Thursday. “There would have been a certain man-bites-dog quality to it: the Democrats showing up on Fox.” But Mr. Wallace, the “Fox News Sunday” moderator, had to put aside his hope for a Fox News-sponsored Democratic primary debate on Wednesday, when Democratic officials rejected the idea in an unusually sharp rebuke. “To be banned, or boycotted, for the 12 debates over the next year, is kind of stunning,” he said in his first extended comments on the matter. “There are a lot of voters that a Democrat is going to need to get elected president who watch Fox News. People in the Rust Belt states, the rural areas that Hillary Clinton lost. They would have been able to see the Democratic candidates make their arguments about why they’re better able to represent their interests.” The Democratic chairman, Tom Perez, attributed his rejection of Fox News in part to an article published by The New Yorker that, he wrote, chronicled “the inappropriate relationship between President Trump, his administration and Fox News.” Mr. Wallace — a formidable interviewer who in 2016 became the first Fox News journalist to moderate a general election debate — seemed dubious about that. “Do I think Tom Perez read the New Yorker article and suddenly said, ‘Oh, my gosh, there’s gambling going on in the back room?’ No,” he said. “There is a visceral antipathy to Fox News among the left wing of the Democratic Party, and I think they saw this as a good opportunity to make a decision that I’m sure the D.N.C. was under a lot of pressure to make.” Fox News has had poor luck persuading Democrats to allow its journalists — who, the network says, operate separately from its partisan pundits — to host an official forum for the party’s presidential candidates. Executives there spent months lobbying Democratic officials for a 2020 opportunity, though its prospects this time looked dimmer than ever. After all, Mr. Trump is a devoted viewer who responds in real-time to “Fox & Friends,” counts a former Fox News co-president as his deputy chief of staff, dines at the White House with Fox News stars like Sean Hannity and Jesse Watters, consults with Fox News commentators on policy decisions and sees his talking points beamed back at him every weeknight during the Fox News prime-time block. So, do the Democrats kind of have a point? “I can understand where some of the programming on Fox News, at various parts of the day, would give Democrats heartburn,” Mr. Wallace said. “I can also understand why there’s programming on in parts of the day on CNN and MSNBC — or, frankly, on the broadcast networks — that would give Donald Trump and Republicans heartburn. “The question is, can you distinguish between the serious straight news reporters and the opinion people?” he added, noting that Rachel Maddow, the liberal opinion host, co-moderated an NBC News debate with Hillary Clinton and Senator Bernie Sanders in 2016. “Sean Hannity and our other opinion people aren’t going to be onstage with the candidates,” Mr. Wallace added, of a potential Fox News debate. Mr. Perez, the Democratic chairman, went out of his way to praise Mr. Wallace during a pair of TV appearances on Wednesday, telling Chris Hayes on MSNBC that “my concern is not about Chris Wallace — it’s about people above Chris Wallace.” (Mr. Wallace said that he expected Mr. Perez to return to his “Fox News Sunday” program, and that Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts had agreed to appear, as well.) While some liberals expressed glee at the Democrats’ decision, the CNN host Chris Cuomo on Wednesday subjected Mr. Perez to an on-air grilling about the logic behind his decision. “It seems like you’re just asking for more division in a campaign season that’s supposed to be about trying to find ways have less division,” Mr. Cuomo said. “I see my role as making sure that everything we do is ensuring that our candidates are treated fairly,” Mr. Perez replied. The president also weighed in, piping up on Twitter to threaten a boycott of debates moderated by “Fake News Networks” in the general election. “This does give President Trump a pretty good excuse to decide if and when he’ll do debates in the general election,” Mr. Wallace said. “If the Democrats are going to boycott certain venues, maybe the president will, too.” “I think that’d be a huge mistake; I think that’d be bad for the country,” he added. “But the Democrats have opened the door to the president being able to say now we’re going to pick and choose where we answer questions from.”   

Supported by By Michael M. Grynbaum Chris Wallace sounded a little bit wistful, and a little bit wry. “I’m disappointed,” he said by telephone on Thursday. “There would have been a certain man-bites-dog quality to it: the Democrats showing up on Fox.” But Mr. Wallace, the “Fox News Sunday” moderator, had to put aside his hope for a Fox News-sponsored Democratic primary debate on Wednesday, when Democratic officials rejected the idea in an unusually sharp rebuke. “To be banned, or boycotted, for the 12 debates over the next year, is kind of stunning,” he said in his first extended comments on the matter. “There are a lot of voters that a Democrat is going to need to get elected president who watch Fox News. People in the Rust Belt states, the rural areas that Hillary Clinton lost. They would have been able to see the Democratic candidates make their arguments about why they’re better able to represent their interests.” The Democratic chairman, Tom Perez, attributed his rejection of Fox News in part to an article published by The New Yorker that, he wrote, chronicled “the inappropriate relationship between President Trump, his administration and Fox News.” Mr. Wallace — a formidable interviewer who in 2016 became the first Fox News journalist to moderate a general election debate — seemed dubious about that. “Do I think Tom Perez read the New Yorker article and suddenly said, ‘Oh, my gosh, there’s gambling going on in the back room?’ No,” he said. “There is a visceral antipathy to Fox News among the left wing of the Democratic Party, and I think they saw this as a good opportunity to make a decision that I’m sure the D.N.C. was under a lot of pressure to make.” Fox News has had poor luck persuading Democrats to allow its journalists — who, the network says, operate separately from its partisan pundits — to host an official forum for the party’s presidential candidates. Executives there spent months lobbying Democratic officials for a 2020 opportunity, though its prospects this time looked dimmer than ever. After all, Mr. Trump is a devoted viewer who responds in real-time to “Fox & Friends,” counts a former Fox News co-president as his deputy chief of staff, dines at the White House with Fox News stars like Sean Hannity and Jesse Watters, consults with Fox News commentators on policy decisions and sees his talking points beamed back at him every weeknight during the Fox News prime-time block. So, do the Democrats kind of have a point? “I can understand where some of the programming on Fox News, at various parts of the day, would give Democrats heartburn,” Mr. Wallace said. “I can also understand why there’s programming on in parts of the day on CNN and MSNBC — or, frankly, on the broadcast networks — that would give Donald Trump and Republicans heartburn. “The question is, can you distinguish between the serious straight news reporters and the opinion people?” he added, noting that Rachel Maddow, the liberal opinion host, co-moderated an NBC News debate with Hillary Clinton and Senator Bernie Sanders in 2016. “Sean Hannity and our other opinion people aren’t going to be onstage with the candidates,” Mr. Wallace added, of a potential Fox News debate. Mr. Perez, the Democratic chairman, went out of his way to praise Mr. Wallace during a pair of TV appearances on Wednesday, telling Chris Hayes on MSNBC that “my concern is not about Chris Wallace — it’s about people above Chris Wallace.” (Mr. Wallace said that he expected Mr. Perez to return to his “Fox News Sunday” program, and that Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts had agreed to appear, as well.) While some liberals expressed glee at the Democrats’ decision, the CNN host Chris Cuomo on Wednesday subjected Mr. Perez to an on-air grilling about the logic behind his decision. “It seems like you’re just asking for more division in a campaign season that’s supposed to be about trying to find ways have less division,” Mr. Cuomo said. “I see my role as making sure that everything we do is ensuring that our candidates are treated fairly,” Mr. Perez replied. The president also weighed in, piping up on Twitter to threaten a boycott of debates moderated by “Fake News Networks” in the general election. “This does give President Trump a pretty good excuse to decide if and when he’ll do debates in the general election,” Mr. Wallace said. “If the Democrats are going to boycott certain venues, maybe the president will, too.” “I think that’d be a huge mistake; I think that’d be bad for the country,” he added. “But the Democrats have opened the door to the president being able to say now we’re going to pick and choose where we answer questions from.”   Supported by By Michael M. Grynbaum Jeanine Pirro is off Fox News prime time — and President Trump is not thrilled about it. Fox News removed Ms. Pirro’s program, “Justice With Judge Jeanine,” from its usual 9 p.m. time slot on Saturday, one week after the network took the rare step of publicly rebuking the host for an on-air monologue that questioned a Muslim lawmaker’s loyalty to the United States. Ms. Pirro has been formally suspended by the network because of her remarks, according to a person told of the decision who requested anonymity to describe sensitive discussions. In a statement, Fox News declined to address the host’s status. “We are not commenting on internal scheduling matters,” the network said. At least one regular viewer of Ms. Pirro seemed to notice. Mr. Trump, posting on Twitter on Sunday morning, urged the network to “bring back @JudgeJeanine Pirro.” In what amounted to a presidential pep talk, Mr. Trump seemed to directly address his favorite television station, which has faced criticism in recent days over comments by Ms. Pirro and another star host, the pundit Tucker Carlson. “Fox must stay strong and fight back with vigor,” Mr. Trump wrote. “Stop working soooo hard on being politically correct, which will only bring you down, and continue to fight for our Country. The losers all want what you have, don’t give it to them.” The president prodded Fox News to adopt the always-attack ethos of his mentor, the late lawyer Roy Cohn. “Be strong & prosper, be weak & die!” Mr. Trump wrote. “Stay true to the people that got you there. Keep fighting for Tucker, and fight hard for @JudgeJeanine.” The president has been friendly for years with Ms. Pirro, whose ex-husband, Al Pirro, served as Mr. Trump’s Westchester County power broker in the 1990s before going to prison for conspiracy and tax evasion. Ms. Pirro, whose television career had stagnated, has watched her ratings rise as she became one of Mr. Trump’s most fervent on-air defenders. But even Fox News, which has mostly stood by star personalities in past scandals, flinched last week after Ms. Pirro’s on-air remarks about Representative Ilhan Omar, Democrat of Minnesota, a Muslim who wears a hijab. “Is her adherence to this Islamic doctrine indicative of her adherence to Shariah law, which in itself is antithetical to the United States Constitution?” Ms. Pirro asked on her March 9 program. Among those calling her comments prejudiced was a Muslim producer at Ms. Pirro’s own network. Several advertisers said they would no longer sponsor her show. The network said Ms. Pirro’s remarks “do not reflect those of the network and we have addressed the matter with her directly,” though officials there have not elaborated on that discussion or what internal punishment, if any, was meted out. Mr. Carlson has also faced scrutiny for offensive comments he made on a shock-jock radio program about a decade ago, which were recently published by the left-wing advocacy group Media Matters for America. Appearing on the “Bubba the Love Sponge” show, Mr. Carlson described Iraqis as “semiliterate primitive monkeys” and mused that “arranging a marriage between a 16-year-old and a 27-year-old is not the same as pulling a stranger off the street and raping her.” Fox News has not issued its own statement on the Carlson matter. Mr. Carlson did not miss any of his regular network appearances this past week. On air, he thanked officials at Fox News for backing him, and portrayed himself as a target of a liberal “mob” intent on silencing conservative voices. On Sunday, Mr. Trump seemed to channel Mr. Carlson’s words. “The Radical Left Democrats, working closely with their beloved partner, the Fake News Media, is using every trick in the book to SILENCE a majority of our Country,” the president wrote on Twitter. “They have all out campaigns against @FoxNews hosts who are doing too well.” Mr. Trump also took aim at the NBC comedy show “Saturday Night Live,” complaining again about its satirical portrayal of him. Not for the first time, the president mused about using the power of the federal government to crack down on television programs that make fun of him — the kind of threat usually wielded by autocrats in countries where there is no independent media. “Should Federal Election Commission and/or FCC look into this?” Mr. Trump wrote. “There must be Collusion with the Democrats, and, of course, Russia!” Ms. Pirro, for her part, has been silent on social media since the criticism began over her remarks. She has not apologized. “My intention was to ask a question and start a debate, but of course because one is Muslim does not mean you don’t support the Constitution,” she said in a statement last weekend. Last week, Ms. Omar — who was recently criticized for comments in Congress that some lawmakers viewed as anti-Semitic — thanked Fox News after the network distanced itself from Ms. Pirro’s remarks. “No one’s commitment to our constitution should be questioned because of their faith or country of birth,” she wrote on Twitter. Viewers who tuned in to watch Ms. Pirro on Saturday night instead saw a rerun of Fox News’s documentary-style show, “Scandalous,” a series that usually focuses on the travails of prominent Democratic politicians and their relatives. The episode that ran on Saturday was about the 1991 rape trial of William Kennedy Smith, a nephew of President John F. Kennedy.   

Supported by By Michael M. Grynbaum Jeanine Pirro is off Fox News prime time — and President Trump is not thrilled about it. Fox News removed Ms. Pirro’s program, “Justice With Judge Jeanine,” from its usual 9 p.m. time slot on Saturday, one week after the network took the rare step of publicly rebuking the host for an on-air monologue that questioned a Muslim lawmaker’s loyalty to the United States. Ms. Pirro has been formally suspended by the network because of her remarks, according to a person told of the decision who requested anonymity to describe sensitive discussions. In a statement, Fox News declined to address the host’s status. “We are not commenting on internal scheduling matters,” the network said. At least one regular viewer of Ms. Pirro seemed to notice. Mr. Trump, posting on Twitter on Sunday morning, urged the network to “bring back @JudgeJeanine Pirro.” In what amounted to a presidential pep talk, Mr. Trump seemed to directly address his favorite television station, which has faced criticism in recent days over comments by Ms. Pirro and another star host, the pundit Tucker Carlson. “Fox must stay strong and fight back with vigor,” Mr. Trump wrote. “Stop working soooo hard on being politically correct, which will only bring you down, and continue to fight for our Country. The losers all want what you have, don’t give it to them.” The president prodded Fox News to adopt the always-attack ethos of his mentor, the late lawyer Roy Cohn. “Be strong & prosper, be weak & die!” Mr. Trump wrote. “Stay true to the people that got you there. Keep fighting for Tucker, and fight hard for @JudgeJeanine.” The president has been friendly for years with Ms. Pirro, whose ex-husband, Al Pirro, served as Mr. Trump’s Westchester County power broker in the 1990s before going to prison for conspiracy and tax evasion. Ms. Pirro, whose television career had stagnated, has watched her ratings rise as she became one of Mr. Trump’s most fervent on-air defenders. But even Fox News, which has mostly stood by star personalities in past scandals, flinched last week after Ms. Pirro’s on-air remarks about Representative Ilhan Omar, Democrat of Minnesota, a Muslim who wears a hijab. “Is her adherence to this Islamic doctrine indicative of her adherence to Shariah law, which in itself is antithetical to the United States Constitution?” Ms. Pirro asked on her March 9 program. Among those calling her comments prejudiced was a Muslim producer at Ms. Pirro’s own network. Several advertisers said they would no longer sponsor her show. The network said Ms. Pirro’s remarks “do not reflect those of the network and we have addressed the matter with her directly,” though officials there have not elaborated on that discussion or what internal punishment, if any, was meted out. Mr. Carlson has also faced scrutiny for offensive comments he made on a shock-jock radio program about a decade ago, which were recently published by the left-wing advocacy group Media Matters for America. Appearing on the “Bubba the Love Sponge” show, Mr. Carlson described Iraqis as “semiliterate primitive monkeys” and mused that “arranging a marriage between a 16-year-old and a 27-year-old is not the same as pulling a stranger off the street and raping her.” Fox News has not issued its own statement on the Carlson matter. Mr. Carlson did not miss any of his regular network appearances this past week. On air, he thanked officials at Fox News for backing him, and portrayed himself as a target of a liberal “mob” intent on silencing conservative voices. On Sunday, Mr. Trump seemed to channel Mr. Carlson’s words. “The Radical Left Democrats, working closely with their beloved partner, the Fake News Media, is using every trick in the book to SILENCE a majority of our Country,” the president wrote on Twitter. “They have all out campaigns against @FoxNews hosts who are doing too well.” Mr. Trump also took aim at the NBC comedy show “Saturday Night Live,” complaining again about its satirical portrayal of him. Not for the first time, the president mused about using the power of the federal government to crack down on television programs that make fun of him — the kind of threat usually wielded by autocrats in countries where there is no independent media. “Should Federal Election Commission and/or FCC look into this?” Mr. Trump wrote. “There must be Collusion with the Democrats, and, of course, Russia!” Ms. Pirro, for her part, has been silent on social media since the criticism began over her remarks. She has not apologized. “My intention was to ask a question and start a debate, but of course because one is Muslim does not mean you don’t support the Constitution,” she said in a statement last weekend. Last week, Ms. Omar — who was recently criticized for comments in Congress that some lawmakers viewed as anti-Semitic — thanked Fox News after the network distanced itself from Ms. Pirro’s remarks. “No one’s commitment to our constitution should be questioned because of their faith or country of birth,” she wrote on Twitter. Viewers who tuned in to watch Ms. Pirro on Saturday night instead saw a rerun of Fox News’s documentary-style show, “Scandalous,” a series that usually focuses on the travails of prominent Democratic politicians and their relatives. The episode that ran on Saturday was about the 1991 rape trial of William Kennedy Smith, a nephew of President John F. Kennedy.   Supported by By Chris Stanford (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good morning, We start with the aftermath of last week’s mosque attacks in New Zealand, deadly flooding in the Midwest, and the field for the N.C.A.A. men’s basketball tournament. Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern ordered an inquiry today into what her government could have known about the gunman before the terrorist attacks at two mosques in Christchurch last week that left at least 50 people dead. She also said that her cabinet had agreed “in principle” to an overhaul of New Zealand’s gun laws.  The suspect in the attack, a 28-year-old Australian, obtained a basic firearms license in November 2017 and bought four weapons online. We compared rules for gun purchases in 16 countries. Closer look: Interviews with survivors, and videos of the attack and its aftermath, suggest that a bystander and police preparedness may have helped limit the toll. How to help: Here’s our guide to groups offering aid to the victims. The Daily: In today’s episode, a Times technology columnist discusses how the attack was, in some ways, made by and for the internet. A review of the data and voice recorders recovered from the jetliner that went down in Ethiopia found similarities between that crash and one involving the same Boeing model in Indonesia last year, Ethiopia’s Transport Ministry said Sunday. The disclosure came on the same day as memorial services in Addis Ababa. Many families don’t expect to ever recover remains because the 157 victims died in a fiery explosion. Related: When the 737 Max was introduced, Boeing and regulators agreed that pilots who had flown an earlier model didn’t need additional simulator training. After two deadly crashes in five months, that decision is now a focus of the investigation. William Singer, who worked in the college counseling business for the better part of three decades, built a national brand appealing to parents’ worries about their children’s prospects.  Federal prosecutors say he was the mastermind behind an elaborate effort to pay off coaches and test monitors, fake exam scores, and fabricate student biographies — all to help wealthy parents cheat their children’s way into desirable colleges. Our reporters looked into Mr. Singer’s background. Another angle: For students who have followed the rules of the college admissions process, now is the nerve-racking time of year when they wait to hear whether they’ve been accepted. “It’s a very long journey and now I’m just waiting for that moment,” one said.  Notable: The scandal, in which 33 parents have been charged so far, demonstrates what our reporters call “snowplow parents,” who clear away any obstacle to their children’s success.  Many of the candidates running for president favor legalizing the drug, a view that has become a pillar of progressive politics. People of color are imprisoned at disproportionate rates for drug offenses, and legalization has become a test of candidates’ commitment to equal treatment in criminal justice and to fighting economic inequality. Yesterday: Senator Kirsten Gillibrand of New York officially entered the Democratic race.  Go deeper: Democrats have won the presidency with nominees under 52. But age may be relative in 2020, with many younger voters preferring Bernie Sanders, 77. Perspective: In an Op-Ed, a journalist and a farmer in Iowa argue that Democrats need to know how to speak to voters in rural America if they hope to succeed. Saudi Arabia has a history of going after dissidents and other Saudi citizens abroad, but the crackdown has increased sharply since Prince Mohammed bin Salman was elevated to crown prince in 2017. The prince authorized a clandestine campaign that included the surveillance, kidnapping, detention and torture of Saudi citizens, according to American officials who have read classified reports about the efforts. The campaign included the killing of Jamal Khashoggi, pictured on the posters above during a memorial last year. Attack in the Netherlands: A gunman killed at least three people and injured five on a tram in the Dutch city of Utrecht. A suspect was in custody. Dispute over Huawei: A U.S. push to prevent the use of the Chinese company’s equipment in next-generation wireless networks has faltered. Some allies have rejected the American argument that Huawei and other Chinese companies pose a security threat. Midwest flooding: At least two people have died after record-high river levels across the region, particularly in Iowa and Nebraska. Deadly cyclone in Africa: The death toll has risen to at least 150, and hundreds more were missing, after a huge storm struck Malawi, Mozambique and Zimbabwe. Arrest in mob killing: The arrest of a 24-year-old man has led the authorities to suspect that the shooting of the reputed leader of the Gambino crime family had more to do with a personal dispute than Mafia ties. Fox News suspension: The network removed Jeanine Pirro’s program from its prime-time slot on Saturday after the host questioned a Muslim lawmaker’s patriotism. President Trump urged Fox to bring her back. Snapshot: Millions of orange butterflies like the one above, called painted ladies, are migrating across Southern California this month. Substantial rainfall in the deserts near the border with Mexico, where the insects lay their eggs, has caused the unusually large swarms, scientists say. N.C.A.A. basketball: Duke, Gonzaga, North Carolina and Virginia secured the top seeds in the men’s tournament, the first round of which begins Thursday. Here’s a printable bracket. The field for the women’s tournament is to be announced tonight. What we’re reading: Jennifer Jett, an editor in Hong Kong, recommends this essay in Quartz. Jenny Anderson, a former New York Times reporter, writes about how her brother’s death spurred her to focus on building real-life connections and community as “an insurance policy against life’s cruelty.”  Cook: “Slow-roasted” citrus salmon takes about 30 minutes, and it’s nearly impossible to overcook. (Our Five Weeknight Dishes newsletter has more recommendations.) Watch: The trailer for “Avengers: Endgame” may look familiar: It uses footage from previous Marvel films going all the way back to “Iron Man.” Go: “Skinnamarink,” a new play from the troupe known as Little Lord, explores schooling and humiliation. We made it a Critic’s Pick. Listen: Maren Morris’s new album, “Girl,” builds on the success of her 2018 hit “The Middle.” Smarter Living: Flying with an unhappy toddler is no fun for anyone. Our Crowdwise columnist, David Pogue, collected readers’ suggestions for simple distractions: pipe cleaners to bend around fingers or through Cheerios; Post-it notes to draw on, and entertaining adhesives, like painter’s tape, Band-Aids or stickers. The next column will focus on advice, both that worked and that didn’t. Share your stories of wisdom at crowdwise@nytimes.com. NASA is planning the first all-female spacewalk this month. The first spacewalk was on this day, in 1965, by the cosmonaut Alexei Leonov. It was a major Soviet advance in the space race. The plans had been kept secret, so Soviet broadcasts of the event caught most of the world by surprise, including Lieutenant Colonel Leonov’s family. “What is he doing?” his 4-year-old daughter cried. “Please tell Daddy to get back inside.” After he retired, Mr. Leonov revealed how many times the mission had neared disaster. In the 2004 book “Two Sides of the Moon,” he detailed how high pressure in his spacesuit had nearly prevented him from re-entering the capsule. Then a systems failure forced the two-man crew to manually guide re-entry. They landed in Siberia, without communications, and endured days of frigid temperatures, with one pistol to ward off wolves. After they were found, the pair skied miles to a rescue helicopter. The most-emailed article by Times readers over the weekend was an Op-Ed about Tanitoluwa Adewumi, an 8-year old refugee from Nigeria who has just won a New York State chess championship. He lives with his family in a shelter in New York City. That’s it for this briefing. See you next time. — Chris Thank youTo Mark Josephson, Eleanor Stanford and James K. Williamson for the break from the news. Andrea Kannapell, the briefings editor, wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com. P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is about the mosque attacks in New Zealand.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Bird that’s a harbinger of spring (5 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • T: The New York Times Style Magazine and The New York Times Magazine were recognized with National Magazine Awards, or “Ellies,” from the American Society of Magazine Editors last week. Chris Stanford is the writer of the U.S. edition of the Morning Briefing. He also compiles a weekly news quiz. He was previously a home page producer at The Times. Before 2013, he worked at The Washington Post and other news outlets.  @stanfordc 

Supported by By Chris Stanford (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good morning, We start with the aftermath of last week’s mosque attacks in New Zealand, deadly flooding in the Midwest, and the field for the N.C.A.A. men’s basketball tournament. Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern ordered an inquiry today into what her government could have known about the gunman before the terrorist attacks at two mosques in Christchurch last week that left at least 50 people dead. She also said that her cabinet had agreed “in principle” to an overhaul of New Zealand’s gun laws.  The suspect in the attack, a 28-year-old Australian, obtained a basic firearms license in November 2017 and bought four weapons online. We compared rules for gun purchases in 16 countries. Closer look: Interviews with survivors, and videos of the attack and its aftermath, suggest that a bystander and police preparedness may have helped limit the toll. How to help: Here’s our guide to groups offering aid to the victims. The Daily: In today’s episode, a Times technology columnist discusses how the attack was, in some ways, made by and for the internet. A review of the data and voice recorders recovered from the jetliner that went down in Ethiopia found similarities between that crash and one involving the same Boeing model in Indonesia last year, Ethiopia’s Transport Ministry said Sunday. The disclosure came on the same day as memorial services in Addis Ababa. Many families don’t expect to ever recover remains because the 157 victims died in a fiery explosion. Related: When the 737 Max was introduced, Boeing and regulators agreed that pilots who had flown an earlier model didn’t need additional simulator training. After two deadly crashes in five months, that decision is now a focus of the investigation. William Singer, who worked in the college counseling business for the better part of three decades, built a national brand appealing to parents’ worries about their children’s prospects.  Federal prosecutors say he was the mastermind behind an elaborate effort to pay off coaches and test monitors, fake exam scores, and fabricate student biographies — all to help wealthy parents cheat their children’s way into desirable colleges. Our reporters looked into Mr. Singer’s background. Another angle: For students who have followed the rules of the college admissions process, now is the nerve-racking time of year when they wait to hear whether they’ve been accepted. “It’s a very long journey and now I’m just waiting for that moment,” one said.  Notable: The scandal, in which 33 parents have been charged so far, demonstrates what our reporters call “snowplow parents,” who clear away any obstacle to their children’s success.  Many of the candidates running for president favor legalizing the drug, a view that has become a pillar of progressive politics. People of color are imprisoned at disproportionate rates for drug offenses, and legalization has become a test of candidates’ commitment to equal treatment in criminal justice and to fighting economic inequality. Yesterday: Senator Kirsten Gillibrand of New York officially entered the Democratic race.  Go deeper: Democrats have won the presidency with nominees under 52. But age may be relative in 2020, with many younger voters preferring Bernie Sanders, 77. Perspective: In an Op-Ed, a journalist and a farmer in Iowa argue that Democrats need to know how to speak to voters in rural America if they hope to succeed. Saudi Arabia has a history of going after dissidents and other Saudi citizens abroad, but the crackdown has increased sharply since Prince Mohammed bin Salman was elevated to crown prince in 2017. The prince authorized a clandestine campaign that included the surveillance, kidnapping, detention and torture of Saudi citizens, according to American officials who have read classified reports about the efforts. The campaign included the killing of Jamal Khashoggi, pictured on the posters above during a memorial last year. Attack in the Netherlands: A gunman killed at least three people and injured five on a tram in the Dutch city of Utrecht. A suspect was in custody. Dispute over Huawei: A U.S. push to prevent the use of the Chinese company’s equipment in next-generation wireless networks has faltered. Some allies have rejected the American argument that Huawei and other Chinese companies pose a security threat. Midwest flooding: At least two people have died after record-high river levels across the region, particularly in Iowa and Nebraska. Deadly cyclone in Africa: The death toll has risen to at least 150, and hundreds more were missing, after a huge storm struck Malawi, Mozambique and Zimbabwe. Arrest in mob killing: The arrest of a 24-year-old man has led the authorities to suspect that the shooting of the reputed leader of the Gambino crime family had more to do with a personal dispute than Mafia ties. Fox News suspension: The network removed Jeanine Pirro’s program from its prime-time slot on Saturday after the host questioned a Muslim lawmaker’s patriotism. President Trump urged Fox to bring her back. Snapshot: Millions of orange butterflies like the one above, called painted ladies, are migrating across Southern California this month. Substantial rainfall in the deserts near the border with Mexico, where the insects lay their eggs, has caused the unusually large swarms, scientists say. N.C.A.A. basketball: Duke, Gonzaga, North Carolina and Virginia secured the top seeds in the men’s tournament, the first round of which begins Thursday. Here’s a printable bracket. The field for the women’s tournament is to be announced tonight. What we’re reading: Jennifer Jett, an editor in Hong Kong, recommends this essay in Quartz. Jenny Anderson, a former New York Times reporter, writes about how her brother’s death spurred her to focus on building real-life connections and community as “an insurance policy against life’s cruelty.”  Cook: “Slow-roasted” citrus salmon takes about 30 minutes, and it’s nearly impossible to overcook. (Our Five Weeknight Dishes newsletter has more recommendations.) Watch: The trailer for “Avengers: Endgame” may look familiar: It uses footage from previous Marvel films going all the way back to “Iron Man.” Go: “Skinnamarink,” a new play from the troupe known as Little Lord, explores schooling and humiliation. We made it a Critic’s Pick. Listen: Maren Morris’s new album, “Girl,” builds on the success of her 2018 hit “The Middle.” Smarter Living: Flying with an unhappy toddler is no fun for anyone. Our Crowdwise columnist, David Pogue, collected readers’ suggestions for simple distractions: pipe cleaners to bend around fingers or through Cheerios; Post-it notes to draw on, and entertaining adhesives, like painter’s tape, Band-Aids or stickers. The next column will focus on advice, both that worked and that didn’t. Share your stories of wisdom at crowdwise@nytimes.com. NASA is planning the first all-female spacewalk this month. The first spacewalk was on this day, in 1965, by the cosmonaut Alexei Leonov. It was a major Soviet advance in the space race. The plans had been kept secret, so Soviet broadcasts of the event caught most of the world by surprise, including Lieutenant Colonel Leonov’s family. “What is he doing?” his 4-year-old daughter cried. “Please tell Daddy to get back inside.” After he retired, Mr. Leonov revealed how many times the mission had neared disaster. In the 2004 book “Two Sides of the Moon,” he detailed how high pressure in his spacesuit had nearly prevented him from re-entering the capsule. Then a systems failure forced the two-man crew to manually guide re-entry. They landed in Siberia, without communications, and endured days of frigid temperatures, with one pistol to ward off wolves. After they were found, the pair skied miles to a rescue helicopter. The most-emailed article by Times readers over the weekend was an Op-Ed about Tanitoluwa Adewumi, an 8-year old refugee from Nigeria who has just won a New York State chess championship. He lives with his family in a shelter in New York City. That’s it for this briefing. See you next time. — Chris Thank youTo Mark Josephson, Eleanor Stanford and James K. Williamson for the break from the news. Andrea Kannapell, the briefings editor, wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com. P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is about the mosque attacks in New Zealand.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Bird that’s a harbinger of spring (5 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • T: The New York Times Style Magazine and The New York Times Magazine were recognized with National Magazine Awards, or “Ellies,” from the American Society of Magazine Editors last week. Chris Stanford is the writer of the U.S. edition of the Morning Briefing. He also compiles a weekly news quiz. He was previously a home page producer at The Times. Before 2013, he worked at The Washington Post and other news outlets.  @stanfordc Supported by By Maggie Astor Shortly after he disclosed his tax returns for the last 10 years, Senator Bernie Sanders on Monday rejected the idea that his newfound millionaire status was a testament to capitalism and the “American dream.” Appearing on Fox News in a town-hall style event, Mr. Sanders defended his wealth as the honestly earned result of a popular book that he wrote. “If anybody thinks I should apologize for writing a best-selling book,” he said, “I’m not going to do it.” But he did not directly answer the question, asked by an audience member, about whether he himself should pay more in taxes now that he is a member of the “1 percent,” from whom he has spent years calling for greater contributions. [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] Then Bret Baier, one of the Fox moderators, asked Mr. Sanders, “When you wrote the book and you made the money, isn’t that the definition of capitalism and the American dream?” “No,” Mr. Sanders replied. “I mean, you know, what we want is a country where everybody has opportunity. You know, I have a college degree. I’m a United States senator. But a lot of people don’t have a college degree. A lot of people are not United States senators. I want everybody in this country to be able to have health care, to have education, to, when they turn on the water, have drinkable water, not toxic water.” The candidates’ tax returns showed that they earned substantially more than a vast majority of American households. The message appeared to be that his financial success had been possible because he had systemic advantages that many other Americans did not. “So what we are fighting for, Bret,” he said, “is a society not where a just few people can make a whole lot of money, but a society where everybody in this country has the opportunity to live in security and dignity.” Mr. Sanders’s tax returns showed that he earned $561,293 last year and paid an effective tax rate of 26 percent. Last week, in an interview with The New York Times, the Vermont senator acknowledged that his book earnings had made him a millionaire. Mr. Sanders is the first Democratic candidate to appear on a 2020 town hall event on Fox News, known for conservative prime time hosts and their forceful defenses of President Trump. The Democratic National Committee has said it will not hold any 2020 debates on Fox, citing troubling ties between the network and the president. [Who’s running for president in 2020? Keep up with who’s in and who’s out with our candidate tracker.] Mr. Sanders occasionally sparred with Mr. Baier and his co-host, Martha MacCallum, and at points was noticeably defensive, pushing back on questions. For instance, while he reiterated that wealthy people and corporations should pay more in taxes, “whether it’s me or you or anybody else,” he did not directly answer when asked whether he would personally be willing to pay a top marginal tax rate of 52 percent, as he proposed for high-income Americans during his 2016 campaign. Instead, in a tone of frustration if not outright agitation, he tried to turn the question on the moderators, saying Mr. Baier and Ms. MacCallum surely made more than he did. When the moderators noted that Mr. Sanders had benefited from the tax legislation that the Republican-controlled Congress passed in late 2017, he emphasized that he had voted against it. Mr. Sanders, who is Jewish and lost many family members in the Holocaust, also defended Representative Ilhan Omar, who has come under fierce attack from President Trump for her comments about 9/11 and Israel. Mr. Sanders said that while she perhaps needed to improve her communication with Jewish Americans, he did not believe she was anti-Semitic. “It is not anti-Semitic to be critical of a right-wing government in Israel,” he said to applause.   

Supported by By Maggie Astor Shortly after he disclosed his tax returns for the last 10 years, Senator Bernie Sanders on Monday rejected the idea that his newfound millionaire status was a testament to capitalism and the “American dream.” Appearing on Fox News in a town-hall style event, Mr. Sanders defended his wealth as the honestly earned result of a popular book that he wrote. “If anybody thinks I should apologize for writing a best-selling book,” he said, “I’m not going to do it.” But he did not directly answer the question, asked by an audience member, about whether he himself should pay more in taxes now that he is a member of the “1 percent,” from whom he has spent years calling for greater contributions. [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] Then Bret Baier, one of the Fox moderators, asked Mr. Sanders, “When you wrote the book and you made the money, isn’t that the definition of capitalism and the American dream?” “No,” Mr. Sanders replied. “I mean, you know, what we want is a country where everybody has opportunity. You know, I have a college degree. I’m a United States senator. But a lot of people don’t have a college degree. A lot of people are not United States senators. I want everybody in this country to be able to have health care, to have education, to, when they turn on the water, have drinkable water, not toxic water.” The candidates’ tax returns showed that they earned substantially more than a vast majority of American households. The message appeared to be that his financial success had been possible because he had systemic advantages that many other Americans did not. “So what we are fighting for, Bret,” he said, “is a society not where a just few people can make a whole lot of money, but a society where everybody in this country has the opportunity to live in security and dignity.” Mr. Sanders’s tax returns showed that he earned $561,293 last year and paid an effective tax rate of 26 percent. Last week, in an interview with The New York Times, the Vermont senator acknowledged that his book earnings had made him a millionaire. Mr. Sanders is the first Democratic candidate to appear on a 2020 town hall event on Fox News, known for conservative prime time hosts and their forceful defenses of President Trump. The Democratic National Committee has said it will not hold any 2020 debates on Fox, citing troubling ties between the network and the president. [Who’s running for president in 2020? Keep up with who’s in and who’s out with our candidate tracker.] Mr. Sanders occasionally sparred with Mr. Baier and his co-host, Martha MacCallum, and at points was noticeably defensive, pushing back on questions. For instance, while he reiterated that wealthy people and corporations should pay more in taxes, “whether it’s me or you or anybody else,” he did not directly answer when asked whether he would personally be willing to pay a top marginal tax rate of 52 percent, as he proposed for high-income Americans during his 2016 campaign. Instead, in a tone of frustration if not outright agitation, he tried to turn the question on the moderators, saying Mr. Baier and Ms. MacCallum surely made more than he did. When the moderators noted that Mr. Sanders had benefited from the tax legislation that the Republican-controlled Congress passed in late 2017, he emphasized that he had voted against it. Mr. Sanders, who is Jewish and lost many family members in the Holocaust, also defended Representative Ilhan Omar, who has come under fierce attack from President Trump for her comments about 9/11 and Israel. Mr. Sanders said that while she perhaps needed to improve her communication with Jewish Americans, he did not believe she was anti-Semitic. “It is not anti-Semitic to be critical of a right-wing government in Israel,” he said to applause.   Supported by The Saturday Profile By Patrick Kingsley AMSTERDAM — First, Rutger Bregman came for the globalists. In late January at Davos, the Swiss resort where the world’s political and financial elites gather each winter, Mr. Bregman bluntly asked why his hosts do not pay more tax. “It feels like I’m at a firefighters’ conference and no one is allowed to speak about water,” he said. “We’ve got to be talking about taxes,” he added. “Taxes, taxes, taxes.” Three weeks later, the young Dutch historian came for the nationalists. Invited on Fox News by Tucker Carlson, who described his earlier outburst as “one of the great moments in Davos history,” Mr. Bregman quickly questioned his host’s sincerity and accused him of being a mouthpiece for the billionaire class. “You’re all like: ‘Oh, I’m against the globalist elite, blah, blah, blah,’” Mr. Bregman, 30, told Mr. Carlson, who responded with a foul-mouthed rant. “It’s not very convincing.” To the extent that bookish economic historians can rampage, Mr. Bregman is on one. And the world has taken notice: Videos of the two incidents have been watched millions of times across dozens of websites, and Mr. Bregman has been inundated with hundreds of interview requests. (In a statement, Mr. Carlson said no one has ever told him what to say on the air.) On a cloudy recent day in Amsterdam, Mr. Bregman was bashful about the reasons for his newfound celebrity. “It’s entertainment, right?” Mr. Bregman said. “Someone taking down Tucker Carlson is just good fun, let’s be honest.” Then again, Mr. Bregman has been saying these kinds of things for years — calling for higher taxes, a shorter working week and a universal basic income — and never captured the global imagination the way he has this past month. That, he said, is because “of something bigger that is happening.” Mr. Bregman is part of a wider wave of young activists, thinkers and politicians that includes Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, the 29-year-old new Democratic congresswoman, and Greta Thunberg, the 16-year-old climate protester, whose radical alternatives have, crucially, begun to garner mainstream acceptance. “The success of these kind of things, and the extraordinary rise of someone like A.O.C., are all symptoms of the times,” Mr. Bregman said. “The whole zeitgeist is shifting.” But what is specific to thinkers like Mr. Bregman is the ideological context, or lack thereof, in which they came of age. He grew up in the decades either side of the millennium, in which grand ideological battles were considered to be a thing of the past. Centrist politicians like Bill Clinton and Tony Blair — and here in the Netherlands, Wim Kok — instead sought to triangulate between Left and Right, and to tinker here and there with the status quo rather than articulating bold visions of the future. But when the economic crisis struck in 2008, revealing how that status quo was not nearly as inevitable as previously assumed, it left an ideological vacuum. The far right has filled part of it, but so have parties and thinkers on the left, among them Mr. Bregman, who combines a detailed approach to economic policy with a utopian vision of a better future. “He is a very practical person,” said Bas Heijne, a leading Dutch essayist and commentator. But “he wants to reinvigorate idealism, and in that sense he’s very much part of his generation.” His prominence over the past month is, nevertheless, something of an accident. His fiery performance at Davos was a last-minute decision. He didn’t initially intend to talk about tax. His Fox appearance also almost never saw the light of day. Mr. Carlson refused to broadcast it, and Mr. Bregman was ambivalent about releasing his own recording on social media, wary of endorsing a kind of confrontational public discourse that leaves little room for dialogue. At the same time, his piercing of the global consciousness has been a long time in the making. Mr. Bregman is already the author of four books — most notably, “Utopia for Realists,” which was published in the Netherlands in 2014, reached the United States two years ago, and has been translated into 32 languages. In the book, which careens between anecdote, academic research and statistics in the manner of a more politically-radical Malcolm Gladwell, Mr. Bregman sets out an idealistic vision that many would dismiss as pure fantasy. He argues for a 15-hour working week, a world without borders and a basic salary for every citizen (the Utopian part), while highlighting examples of how these policies have already been partially implemented in recent history (the realist bit). He tells readers of how a universal basic income, a concept now considered far-fetched, was in fact almost introduced in the United States during the Nixon presidency, and how an iteration of it was supported by Milton Friedman, the neoliberal economist. He cites the example of a Canadian town where all citizens received a basic annual income of $19,000 in the 1970s — a program that barely dented their enthusiasm for work, but which was accompanied by a drop in crime, truancy, hospital attendance, domestic violence and poverty. In the eyes of Rob Wijnberg, Mr. Bregman’s editor at The Correspondent, an online journalism portal, it is this work that provides “a way better reason to put him in The New York Times than the controversy that made him well-known in the last couple of weeks.” The son of a pastor (his father) and a teacher (his mother), Mr. Bregman grew up in a town in southern Holland, before studying history at Utrecht University at both the undergraduate and master’s level. After briefly teaching at Utrecht, Mr. Bregman felt he would find life as an academic historian too dry. He opted against embarking on a doctorate, and instead joined The Correspondent at its launch in 2013. While most historians conduct their research at universities, Mr. Bregman is a kind of in-house historian at The Correspondent, an innovative Dutch outlet whose reporters are encouraged to take their time, write about topics far from the news cycle and keep their readers informed of their research. He works like an academic researcher, plunging for weeks into the history of policies like the universal basic income, surfacing every month or so with a new article. The ensuing work provided him with the basis for “Utopia for Realists.” Unsurprisingly, he has attracted some brickbats, even from the left. Mr. Heijne, the essayist, admires Mr. Bregman, but feels his focus on economic solutions comes at the expense of questions of identity and belonging that have become central to current social tensions. Other leftist critics fear Mr. Bregman’s version of a basic income would mean an end to the welfare state — or just wouldn’t work in practice. “When his self-styled utopia is widened to include completely open national borders,” wrote John Harris in the New Statesman, a British political magazine, “everything threatens to fall apart.” Mr. Bregman is not immune to such doubts himself. But, ultimately, he argues that it is only by dreaming about what seems to be unachievable that society can make good things possible. “It’s pretty clear that 30 years from now things will be considered common sense that are seen as completely bizarre nowadays,” Mr. Bregman said. “The question is: Will history move in the right direction? And I’m not sure about that. But I’m doing my best to contribute.”   

Supported by The Saturday Profile By Patrick Kingsley AMSTERDAM — First, Rutger Bregman came for the globalists. In late January at Davos, the Swiss resort where the world’s political and financial elites gather each winter, Mr. Bregman bluntly asked why his hosts do not pay more tax. “It feels like I’m at a firefighters’ conference and no one is allowed to speak about water,” he said. “We’ve got to be talking about taxes,” he added. “Taxes, taxes, taxes.” Three weeks later, the young Dutch historian came for the nationalists. Invited on Fox News by Tucker Carlson, who described his earlier outburst as “one of the great moments in Davos history,” Mr. Bregman quickly questioned his host’s sincerity and accused him of being a mouthpiece for the billionaire class. “You’re all like: ‘Oh, I’m against the globalist elite, blah, blah, blah,’” Mr. Bregman, 30, told Mr. Carlson, who responded with a foul-mouthed rant. “It’s not very convincing.” To the extent that bookish economic historians can rampage, Mr. Bregman is on one. And the world has taken notice: Videos of the two incidents have been watched millions of times across dozens of websites, and Mr. Bregman has been inundated with hundreds of interview requests. (In a statement, Mr. Carlson said no one has ever told him what to say on the air.) On a cloudy recent day in Amsterdam, Mr. Bregman was bashful about the reasons for his newfound celebrity. “It’s entertainment, right?” Mr. Bregman said. “Someone taking down Tucker Carlson is just good fun, let’s be honest.” Then again, Mr. Bregman has been saying these kinds of things for years — calling for higher taxes, a shorter working week and a universal basic income — and never captured the global imagination the way he has this past month. That, he said, is because “of something bigger that is happening.” Mr. Bregman is part of a wider wave of young activists, thinkers and politicians that includes Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, the 29-year-old new Democratic congresswoman, and Greta Thunberg, the 16-year-old climate protester, whose radical alternatives have, crucially, begun to garner mainstream acceptance. “The success of these kind of things, and the extraordinary rise of someone like A.O.C., are all symptoms of the times,” Mr. Bregman said. “The whole zeitgeist is shifting.” But what is specific to thinkers like Mr. Bregman is the ideological context, or lack thereof, in which they came of age. He grew up in the decades either side of the millennium, in which grand ideological battles were considered to be a thing of the past. Centrist politicians like Bill Clinton and Tony Blair — and here in the Netherlands, Wim Kok — instead sought to triangulate between Left and Right, and to tinker here and there with the status quo rather than articulating bold visions of the future. But when the economic crisis struck in 2008, revealing how that status quo was not nearly as inevitable as previously assumed, it left an ideological vacuum. The far right has filled part of it, but so have parties and thinkers on the left, among them Mr. Bregman, who combines a detailed approach to economic policy with a utopian vision of a better future. “He is a very practical person,” said Bas Heijne, a leading Dutch essayist and commentator. But “he wants to reinvigorate idealism, and in that sense he’s very much part of his generation.” His prominence over the past month is, nevertheless, something of an accident. His fiery performance at Davos was a last-minute decision. He didn’t initially intend to talk about tax. His Fox appearance also almost never saw the light of day. Mr. Carlson refused to broadcast it, and Mr. Bregman was ambivalent about releasing his own recording on social media, wary of endorsing a kind of confrontational public discourse that leaves little room for dialogue. At the same time, his piercing of the global consciousness has been a long time in the making. Mr. Bregman is already the author of four books — most notably, “Utopia for Realists,” which was published in the Netherlands in 2014, reached the United States two years ago, and has been translated into 32 languages. In the book, which careens between anecdote, academic research and statistics in the manner of a more politically-radical Malcolm Gladwell, Mr. Bregman sets out an idealistic vision that many would dismiss as pure fantasy. He argues for a 15-hour working week, a world without borders and a basic salary for every citizen (the Utopian part), while highlighting examples of how these policies have already been partially implemented in recent history (the realist bit). He tells readers of how a universal basic income, a concept now considered far-fetched, was in fact almost introduced in the United States during the Nixon presidency, and how an iteration of it was supported by Milton Friedman, the neoliberal economist. He cites the example of a Canadian town where all citizens received a basic annual income of $19,000 in the 1970s — a program that barely dented their enthusiasm for work, but which was accompanied by a drop in crime, truancy, hospital attendance, domestic violence and poverty. In the eyes of Rob Wijnberg, Mr. Bregman’s editor at The Correspondent, an online journalism portal, it is this work that provides “a way better reason to put him in The New York Times than the controversy that made him well-known in the last couple of weeks.” The son of a pastor (his father) and a teacher (his mother), Mr. Bregman grew up in a town in southern Holland, before studying history at Utrecht University at both the undergraduate and master’s level. After briefly teaching at Utrecht, Mr. Bregman felt he would find life as an academic historian too dry. He opted against embarking on a doctorate, and instead joined The Correspondent at its launch in 2013. While most historians conduct their research at universities, Mr. Bregman is a kind of in-house historian at The Correspondent, an innovative Dutch outlet whose reporters are encouraged to take their time, write about topics far from the news cycle and keep their readers informed of their research. He works like an academic researcher, plunging for weeks into the history of policies like the universal basic income, surfacing every month or so with a new article. The ensuing work provided him with the basis for “Utopia for Realists.” Unsurprisingly, he has attracted some brickbats, even from the left. Mr. Heijne, the essayist, admires Mr. Bregman, but feels his focus on economic solutions comes at the expense of questions of identity and belonging that have become central to current social tensions. Other leftist critics fear Mr. Bregman’s version of a basic income would mean an end to the welfare state — or just wouldn’t work in practice. “When his self-styled utopia is widened to include completely open national borders,” wrote John Harris in the New Statesman, a British political magazine, “everything threatens to fall apart.” Mr. Bregman is not immune to such doubts himself. But, ultimately, he argues that it is only by dreaming about what seems to be unachievable that society can make good things possible. “It’s pretty clear that 30 years from now things will be considered common sense that are seen as completely bizarre nowadays,” Mr. Bregman said. “The question is: Will history move in the right direction? And I’m not sure about that. But I’m doing my best to contribute.”   Supported by By Sheryl Gay Stolberg WASHINGTON — At 23, Elizabeth Pipko has branded herself on social media as a onetime figure skater, a part-time poet and a former Trump campaign aide, an Instagramista whose feed spotlights her Mar-a-Lago wedding and racy swimsuit and lingerie modeling shots. But when President Trump latched onto Ms. Pipko’s concept of a “Jexodus” — a fledgling, and some would say crass, effort by Republicans to woo Jews away from the Democratic Party — even Democratic leaders found themselves defensively responding to a young woman they did not know existed a month ago. The rise of Ms. Pipko and the notion of a Jexodus — there is no evidence that any such thing is occurring — is an object lesson in how an idea can migrate from a no-name messenger to the broad body politic, through the organ of Fox News and the megaphone of the president’s Twitter account. “We left Egypt, and now we’re leaving the Democratic Party,” Ms. Pipko declared last week on “Fox & Friends,” the president’s favorite television program, prompting a flurry of tweets about Jexodus from Mr. Trump, and an angry retort from Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the House Democratic leader. About that exodus: Some 79 percent of Jews voted for Democrats in last year’s midterm elections, according to exit polling data, up from the 71 percent who voted for Hillary Clinton in 2016 and the 69 percent who voted for Barack Obama in 2012. And Jews take a dim view of Mr. Trump, according to a 2018 Gallup poll that found that just 26 percent of Jews approved of the president’s performance, the lowest of any major religious group. And about that name, Jexodus. “Obviously, it’s a play on Exodus,” Ms. Pipko said on Fox. (There was, of course, an Exodus in the Bible. It involved Jews. So why the J? Is the next step renaming Passover as “Jassover”?) “The Exodus is the most important master class in redemption in human history, and it is the ground for why we care about all those who are oppressed by slavery,” said Rabbi Jonah Pesner, the director of the Religious Action Center of Reform Judaism. “To crush that redemptive narrative into the crucible of partisan politics, I find very troubling.” The Palestinian-American writer Yousef Munayyer took a lighter view. “Jexodus,” he said, reminded him of “a bad Weird Al Yankovic parody” of Bob Marley: “Movement of Jah people.” Jexodus may have gotten the hint on the name. On Thursday, its leaders announced that they were rebranding it “the Exodus Movement,” an initiative of Red Sea Rising, incorporated by Ms. Pipko as a tax-exempt “social welfare” organization. On Wednesday afternoon, the Jexodus.org website was taken down; a new one, TheExodusMovement.com, went live on Thursday. But on the mission, Ms. Pipko said she was undeterred. “We’re obviously super-realistic and aware that overwhelmingly, the Jewish people have supported Democrats over the years,” Ms. Pipko said in an interview, though she added, “I love a challenge.” In a strategy memo shared with The New York Times, she wrote that she intended to use “extensive microtargeting” to find “persuadable Jews” in eight states — Florida, Pennsylvania, Ohio, Nevada, Arizona, Colorado, Michigan and Minnesota — where Jews make up more than 2 percent of the vote in a total of 31 House districts. The effort comes at a fraught moment for Israel supporters in the Democratic Party. Two freshman Democrats — Representatives Ilhan Omar of Minnesota and Rashida Tlaib of Michigan — embrace the boycott-Israel movement and have been fending off charges of anti-Semitism for weeks. The Republican National Committee and the National Republican Congressional Committee have streamed out a barrage of news releases accusing Democrats of anti-Semitism or coddling anti-Semites. A New York native and granddaughter of Marc Klionsky, a Russian-born Jewish painter, Ms. Pipko — who was described on the Jexodus website as an “international model, Trump 2016 campaign staffer, poet, patriot and fiercely proud millennial Jew” — is not new to media attention. A 2015 Esquire article about her said she “took a year off from minoring in mathematics at Harvard to train for the Olympics in figure skating,” though her LinkedIn profile notes that she attends the Harvard Extension School, not Harvard College, and her skating career was derailed, she said Wednesday, by an injury when she was 15. Her poetry books — “Sweet 16” and “About You” — were self-published: “Her skin was luscious, peachy clean. Her eyes a chocolate brown. Her smile full of life. The envy of her town.” While Ms. Pipko is the public face of Jexodus, the idea originated with Jeff Ballabon, an adviser to the 2016 Trump campaign and self-described “very traditionally observant Jew” who said he was deeply disturbed by the rising tide of anti-Israel sentiment on the progressive left. In an email, he said he came up with “Jexodus” as a “rallying cry” to help make it “O.K. for Jews to be proudly independent or Republican or even active Trump supporters.” And he lamented “the nightmare we have now where a major party believes it has a lock on the Jews and so is free to court Jew haters.” He announced the new group at the Conservative Political Action Conference in Washington this month, along with Sebastian Gorka — a former Trump White House official who has been accused of a decades-old alignment with Nazi groups in his native Hungary. “CPAC attendees: check out the awesome #JEXODUS swag & tweet pics wearing it!” Mr. Ballabon wrote on Twitter. Mr. Gorka declined to be interviewed. “I will not assist a publication clearly dedicated to a monomaniacal political agenda of undermining the duly elected president of the United States,” he said in an email. Jexodus, now the Exodus Movement, is making its debut just days before 18,000 people — including Vice President Mike Pence, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel and top congressional leaders — are to gather in Washington for the annual policy conference of the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, the pro-Israel lobbying behemoth. Mr. Trump, despite his own history of trafficking in anti-Semitic tropes, is clearly trying to exploit the moment. “There is anti-Semitism in the Democratic Party,” he wrote on Twitter last week, quoting Ms. Pipko’s Fox appearance. That raised the hackles not only of Democrats, but of the foreign policy establishment. “The deployment of Jexodus is vintage Trump,” said Aaron David Miller, Middle East program director at the Wilson Center, a foreign affairs research organization, “a cynical, Twitter-friendly conceit designed to undermine bipartisanship — critically important to a healthy U.S.-Israeli relationship — by trying to establish the Republican Party as the go-to party on Israel and in the process tar the Democrats with labels that run from anti-Israel to anti-Jewish.” On Friday, Mr. Hoyer, the House Democratic leader, shot back. “Exploiting anti-Semitism for partisan advantage is dangerous and wrong,” he said. “It is misleading on the facts, destructive to the critical bipartisan support that Israel has always enjoyed and that has been so important to its security and success, and a risk to the unity of our country.” Ms. Pipko insists she simply wants to educate people. She has “kind of said goodbye” to modeling — “I think I’m moving past it,” she said — though given her unusual résumé and her very much active Instagram account she seems to expect that people will doubt her. “I can’t blame them,” she said. “There’s a lot that I’ve done that’s very far from politics. I’m also 23 years old. I’m very O.K. with having to prove myself, and I’m excited to show people that I am very serious.” An earlier version of a story on the “Jexodus” movement said Elizabeth Pipko attends the Harvard Extension School, not Harvard University. The extension school is part of the university. She does not attend Harvard College.    

Supported by By Sheryl Gay Stolberg WASHINGTON — At 23, Elizabeth Pipko has branded herself on social media as a onetime figure skater, a part-time poet and a former Trump campaign aide, an Instagramista whose feed spotlights her Mar-a-Lago wedding and racy swimsuit and lingerie modeling shots. But when President Trump latched onto Ms. Pipko’s concept of a “Jexodus” — a fledgling, and some would say crass, effort by Republicans to woo Jews away from the Democratic Party — even Democratic leaders found themselves defensively responding to a young woman they did not know existed a month ago. The rise of Ms. Pipko and the notion of a Jexodus — there is no evidence that any such thing is occurring — is an object lesson in how an idea can migrate from a no-name messenger to the broad body politic, through the organ of Fox News and the megaphone of the president’s Twitter account. “We left Egypt, and now we’re leaving the Democratic Party,” Ms. Pipko declared last week on “Fox & Friends,” the president’s favorite television program, prompting a flurry of tweets about Jexodus from Mr. Trump, and an angry retort from Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the House Democratic leader. About that exodus: Some 79 percent of Jews voted for Democrats in last year’s midterm elections, according to exit polling data, up from the 71 percent who voted for Hillary Clinton in 2016 and the 69 percent who voted for Barack Obama in 2012. And Jews take a dim view of Mr. Trump, according to a 2018 Gallup poll that found that just 26 percent of Jews approved of the president’s performance, the lowest of any major religious group. And about that name, Jexodus. “Obviously, it’s a play on Exodus,” Ms. Pipko said on Fox. (There was, of course, an Exodus in the Bible. It involved Jews. So why the J? Is the next step renaming Passover as “Jassover”?) “The Exodus is the most important master class in redemption in human history, and it is the ground for why we care about all those who are oppressed by slavery,” said Rabbi Jonah Pesner, the director of the Religious Action Center of Reform Judaism. “To crush that redemptive narrative into the crucible of partisan politics, I find very troubling.” The Palestinian-American writer Yousef Munayyer took a lighter view. “Jexodus,” he said, reminded him of “a bad Weird Al Yankovic parody” of Bob Marley: “Movement of Jah people.” Jexodus may have gotten the hint on the name. On Thursday, its leaders announced that they were rebranding it “the Exodus Movement,” an initiative of Red Sea Rising, incorporated by Ms. Pipko as a tax-exempt “social welfare” organization. On Wednesday afternoon, the Jexodus.org website was taken down; a new one, TheExodusMovement.com, went live on Thursday. But on the mission, Ms. Pipko said she was undeterred. “We’re obviously super-realistic and aware that overwhelmingly, the Jewish people have supported Democrats over the years,” Ms. Pipko said in an interview, though she added, “I love a challenge.” In a strategy memo shared with The New York Times, she wrote that she intended to use “extensive microtargeting” to find “persuadable Jews” in eight states — Florida, Pennsylvania, Ohio, Nevada, Arizona, Colorado, Michigan and Minnesota — where Jews make up more than 2 percent of the vote in a total of 31 House districts. The effort comes at a fraught moment for Israel supporters in the Democratic Party. Two freshman Democrats — Representatives Ilhan Omar of Minnesota and Rashida Tlaib of Michigan — embrace the boycott-Israel movement and have been fending off charges of anti-Semitism for weeks. The Republican National Committee and the National Republican Congressional Committee have streamed out a barrage of news releases accusing Democrats of anti-Semitism or coddling anti-Semites. A New York native and granddaughter of Marc Klionsky, a Russian-born Jewish painter, Ms. Pipko — who was described on the Jexodus website as an “international model, Trump 2016 campaign staffer, poet, patriot and fiercely proud millennial Jew” — is not new to media attention. A 2015 Esquire article about her said she “took a year off from minoring in mathematics at Harvard to train for the Olympics in figure skating,” though her LinkedIn profile notes that she attends the Harvard Extension School, not Harvard College, and her skating career was derailed, she said Wednesday, by an injury when she was 15. Her poetry books — “Sweet 16” and “About You” — were self-published: “Her skin was luscious, peachy clean. Her eyes a chocolate brown. Her smile full of life. The envy of her town.” While Ms. Pipko is the public face of Jexodus, the idea originated with Jeff Ballabon, an adviser to the 2016 Trump campaign and self-described “very traditionally observant Jew” who said he was deeply disturbed by the rising tide of anti-Israel sentiment on the progressive left. In an email, he said he came up with “Jexodus” as a “rallying cry” to help make it “O.K. for Jews to be proudly independent or Republican or even active Trump supporters.” And he lamented “the nightmare we have now where a major party believes it has a lock on the Jews and so is free to court Jew haters.” He announced the new group at the Conservative Political Action Conference in Washington this month, along with Sebastian Gorka — a former Trump White House official who has been accused of a decades-old alignment with Nazi groups in his native Hungary. “CPAC attendees: check out the awesome #JEXODUS swag & tweet pics wearing it!” Mr. Ballabon wrote on Twitter. Mr. Gorka declined to be interviewed. “I will not assist a publication clearly dedicated to a monomaniacal political agenda of undermining the duly elected president of the United States,” he said in an email. Jexodus, now the Exodus Movement, is making its debut just days before 18,000 people — including Vice President Mike Pence, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel and top congressional leaders — are to gather in Washington for the annual policy conference of the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, the pro-Israel lobbying behemoth. Mr. Trump, despite his own history of trafficking in anti-Semitic tropes, is clearly trying to exploit the moment. “There is anti-Semitism in the Democratic Party,” he wrote on Twitter last week, quoting Ms. Pipko’s Fox appearance. That raised the hackles not only of Democrats, but of the foreign policy establishment. “The deployment of Jexodus is vintage Trump,” said Aaron David Miller, Middle East program director at the Wilson Center, a foreign affairs research organization, “a cynical, Twitter-friendly conceit designed to undermine bipartisanship — critically important to a healthy U.S.-Israeli relationship — by trying to establish the Republican Party as the go-to party on Israel and in the process tar the Democrats with labels that run from anti-Israel to anti-Jewish.” On Friday, Mr. Hoyer, the House Democratic leader, shot back. “Exploiting anti-Semitism for partisan advantage is dangerous and wrong,” he said. “It is misleading on the facts, destructive to the critical bipartisan support that Israel has always enjoyed and that has been so important to its security and success, and a risk to the unity of our country.” Ms. Pipko insists she simply wants to educate people. She has “kind of said goodbye” to modeling — “I think I’m moving past it,” she said — though given her unusual résumé and her very much active Instagram account she seems to expect that people will doubt her. “I can’t blame them,” she said. “There’s a lot that I’ve done that’s very far from politics. I’m also 23 years old. I’m very O.K. with having to prove myself, and I’m excited to show people that I am very serious.” An earlier version of a story on the “Jexodus” movement said Elizabeth Pipko attends the Harvard Extension School, not Harvard University. The extension school is part of the university. She does not attend Harvard College.    Supported by Clayton Morris has been sued by nearly two dozen customers who say they were sold ramshackle homes as investment properties. By Matthew Goldstein INDIANAPOLIS — Clayton Morris walked away from his job as a Fox News host in 2017 to devote himself to the next phase of his professional life: helping regular people achieve financial independence. Mr. Morris, a host on “Fox and Friends Weekend,” already had a popular real estate investing podcast when he and his wife, Natali, decided to become full-time real estate advisers. Their plan was to connect mom-and-pop investors with turnkey investment homes in Detroit, Indianapolis, Jacksonville, Fla., and several other cities. Their company, Morris Invest, would handle the details: finding properties, overseeing renovations, hiring property managers to rent out the houses. All clients had to do was put up the cash and wait for the checks to arrive. Morris Invest helped sell at least 1,000 properties over the past two years, reaping more than $5 million in referral fees and profits from the sales, according to resale prices and interviews with investors and a lawyer for a former business partner. But Mr. Morris’s customers said many of the homes in Indianapolis had cost them dearly.  Nearly two dozen customers are now suing Mr. Morris and his company. They contend that the properties were in worse shape than advertised, and that rehab work paid for upfront was done poorly or not at all. Vacant lots sold on the expectation of new homes being built are strewn with trash. One house gutted by fire was sold a few days later to an unwitting investor, according to a lawsuit.  “He comes across as this nice, likable family guy,” said Brian Freeman, a California lawyer who plunked down about $40,000 for a ramshackle home that was in such bad shape he was issued fines. “He’s famous and I thought, ‘He’s not going to ruin his entire reputation.’ Obviously, in hindsight, I feel like such an idiot.” The Morrises face a half-dozen lawsuits, including one in federal court, and more will probably follow.  Lawyers in Indianapolis are fielding calls from disgruntled customers and angry renters, and Indiana’s attorney general has opened an investigation. In response to a Freedom of Information Act request, the Federal Trade Commission said it had received 21 consumer complaints. The couple insisted they were not to blame for the properties’ problems. “We were a victim, too,” Mr. Morris, 42, said during an interview with his wife at a coffee shop near their  suburban New Jersey home.  The couple said they had lost hundreds of thousands of dollars on homes that they and their relatives bought from a property-management company that was one of their business partners in Indianapolis. The company, Oceanpointe Investments, was the seller of the homes the Morrises’ clients bought, and, according to the couple, it was supposed to do the renovations and manage the properties. The Morrises said that Oceanpointe, which many Morris Invest clients said they had never heard of until after buying the homes, is the real villain and liable for any damages. Few, if any, problems have arisen in other cities, they said. Oceanpointe blames the Morrises, saying they are responsible for the promises made to investors. Also caught in the middle are the renters who lived in some of the homes. They say that poor upkeep resulted in collapsing ceilings and frequent plumbing problems. Furnaces often did not work properly, leaving homes freezing cold in winter. One renter in a pending landlord-tenant case blamed poor living conditions for the premature birth of girl who died an hour after delivery.  The Morrises said they were not aware of the extent of the problems. “We didn’t know any were living in abject conditions,” Ms. Morris, 40, said. The unfolding affair demonstrates the allure that real estate speculation still holds for individual investors roughly a decade after one of the worst housing crises in United States history.  It can be problematic when such investors look to charismatic personalities for investing tips. Many of the financial gurus pushing investors into real estate play off fears of economic insecurity, according to Philip Garboden, a professor of affordable housing at the University of Hawaii at Manoa.  In a research working paper financed partly by the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development, Mr. Garboden wrote that amateur investors were vulnerable to exploitation by those who “evangelize” the process and tend to play down the risks of investing in “low-end” urban real estate. “These are very incestuous networks,” Mr. Garboden said in an interview. “They know the contractors. The property manager. The whole system thrives on keeping every dollar invested in that network.” Investment gurus, he said, tend to  have a common message: Investing in real estate can help guide the average investor to financial independence. Mr. Morris’s sales pitch did not lean heavily on his career in broadcast journalism. But he did not keep it a secret, either. He alluded to his new career in a lighthearted seven-minute video send-off that Fox News put together and that showed Mr. Morris competing in an obstacle course competition and grilling burgers outside the Manhattan studio. Real estate investing, he said in marketing materials, had given him the financial security to quit his 9 to 5 broadcast job. “I’m a big fan of this radical idea that everyone should be able to achieve total financial freedom,” the biography on one of his websites says.  With his wife — a former  anchor for CBS Interactive — he wrote a book, “How to Pay Off Your Mortgage in 5 Years.”  But the couple’s new venture did more than offer advice: It was a one-stop shopping experience for investors who wanted to buy rental homes — by dipping into their retirement savings, if necessary.  An email sent to one client who signed up last year summed up the pitch: Are you working LONG hours but never quite able to get ahead? Are you worried about making COSTLY mistakes with a vacant rental property? Are you intimidated by the thought of DOING IT ALL yourself? Stop worrying, and let us take care it! The Morrises pulled in hundreds of customers from across the United States and as far away as Israel and South Korea.  They helped sell nearly 700 homes in Indianapolis alone. “It was his name and his promise,” said Larry McLeskey, one of nearly two dozen individual investors suing Mr. Morris in the federal lawsuit. Mr. McLeskey, who lives in Michigan, said that he and his wife, Kay, had lost $40,000 after selling a home in Indianapolis. “No one was taking care of the home.”  Danny Gomes, a real estate agent from Redding, Calif., sued Morris Invest separately after, he said, he lost $52,000 on an Indianapolis home he bought last year, just days after it was largely destroyed in a fire. The house is now boarded up, its back half all but gone.  Mr. Gomes said he had learned about the fire only several months later, when the city sent him a notice warning that the property was unsafe and needed to be boarded up. Until then, he believed the house was being rehabilitated, work he paid for when he bought it. One of Mr. Morris’s employees, who is also Ms. Morris’s sister, told Mr. Gomes that she would be his “point of contact for the rehab process,” according to an email provided to The New York Times.  Mr. Gomes said it was only after he learned about the fire that he discovered Morris Invest was simply getting a referral fee for sending customers to Oceanpointe. “When it hit the fan,” Mr. Gomes said, “they said they were just the middleman.”  As the Morrises tell it, they were blindsided just like everyone else. The couple, who have three young children, said they were frustrated with all the anger directed at them. They have put their own home up for sale, in part out of concern for their safety.  They place the blame squarely on Oceanpointe and its founder, Bert Whalen.  The Morrises said they met Mr. Whalen in 2014, when they bought a few homes in Indianapolis and used Oceanpointe to fix up and manage them. By 2016, Mr. Morris was referring one or two investors a week to Mr. Whalen’s firm. The Morrises said they had eventually formalized the relationship, sending buyers to Oceanpointe and earning a fee on each sale. Mr. Morris said it was not until spring 2018 that he became fully aware of the problems his customers were having with Oceanpointe. The relationship formally ended in May. The Morrises said they would not have gotten involved with Mr. Whalen had they known that Indiana regulators moved to deny a renewal of his real estate license in December 2015. A state regulator determined that he had failed to disclose convictions for operating a car and motorboat while intoxicated and, on at least one occasion, had not turned over rent money he had collected for a property owner. His real estate license was permanently revoked in January 2018. Despite the break with Oceanpointe, the Morrises said they had many satisfied customers. Renovation work was done on 60 percent of the 700 homes sold in Indianapolis, Mr. Morris estimated.  “There are hundreds of people who are as happy as a clam,” he said. There are many, however, who are not. For clients dissatisfied with the work on their properties, Mr. Morris said Oceanpointe had agreed to indemnify Morris Invest against all lawsuits and investor claims. The Morrises’ lawyer sent a letter to Mr. Whalen in October seeking to enforce the indemnification agreement. The couple declined to provide a copy of the agreement. John Tompkins, a lawyer for Mr. Whalen, blamed Morris Invest, which he said had collected a $6,500 referral fee on every property. Mr. Whalen’s businesses “have done everything required by their investment agreements and contracts,” Mr. Tompkins said. He disputed the suggestion that the indemnification agreement held Oceanpointe solely responsible for problems with the selling of the homes.  “The problems that have come up relate to Morris exclusively,” Mr. Tompkins said. “The misunderstandings of those buyers related to misstatements by Morris and his sales personnel.” The Morrises have largely gotten out of the real estate business in Indianapolis. They are focused mainly on Detroit, where they have sold more than 200 homes, largely without the kind of complaints they face in Indianapolis.  Morris Invest, though, is no longer their top priority.  The Morrises are now selling an online financial advice and planning program: Financial Freedom Academy. The program offers a “proven system for building wealth, guaranteed,” according to its website. The site describes a conversation that Mr. Morris said transformed his life: He was seated next to real estate investor on a trip to New Zealand several years ago, and learned the man and his wife were on a two-month vacation after making money acquiring homes, fixing them up and renting them out. “From that moment on, I made it my mission to follow in his footsteps,” Mr. Morris says on the site.  Mr. Morris is inviting investors to follow in his footsteps with a nine-session online program at a special introductory rate of $697. Matthew Goldstein covers Wall Street and white collar crime and housing issues.  @mattgoldstein26 

Supported by Clayton Morris has been sued by nearly two dozen customers who say they were sold ramshackle homes as investment properties. By Matthew Goldstein INDIANAPOLIS — Clayton Morris walked away from his job as a Fox News host in 2017 to devote himself to the next phase of his professional life: helping regular people achieve financial independence. Mr. Morris, a host on “Fox and Friends Weekend,” already had a popular real estate investing podcast when he and his wife, Natali, decided to become full-time real estate advisers. Their plan was to connect mom-and-pop investors with turnkey investment homes in Detroit, Indianapolis, Jacksonville, Fla., and several other cities. Their company, Morris Invest, would handle the details: finding properties, overseeing renovations, hiring property managers to rent out the houses. All clients had to do was put up the cash and wait for the checks to arrive. Morris Invest helped sell at least 1,000 properties over the past two years, reaping more than $5 million in referral fees and profits from the sales, according to resale prices and interviews with investors and a lawyer for a former business partner. But Mr. Morris’s customers said many of the homes in Indianapolis had cost them dearly.  Nearly two dozen customers are now suing Mr. Morris and his company. They contend that the properties were in worse shape than advertised, and that rehab work paid for upfront was done poorly or not at all. Vacant lots sold on the expectation of new homes being built are strewn with trash. One house gutted by fire was sold a few days later to an unwitting investor, according to a lawsuit.  “He comes across as this nice, likable family guy,” said Brian Freeman, a California lawyer who plunked down about $40,000 for a ramshackle home that was in such bad shape he was issued fines. “He’s famous and I thought, ‘He’s not going to ruin his entire reputation.’ Obviously, in hindsight, I feel like such an idiot.” The Morrises face a half-dozen lawsuits, including one in federal court, and more will probably follow.  Lawyers in Indianapolis are fielding calls from disgruntled customers and angry renters, and Indiana’s attorney general has opened an investigation. In response to a Freedom of Information Act request, the Federal Trade Commission said it had received 21 consumer complaints. The couple insisted they were not to blame for the properties’ problems. “We were a victim, too,” Mr. Morris, 42, said during an interview with his wife at a coffee shop near their  suburban New Jersey home.  The couple said they had lost hundreds of thousands of dollars on homes that they and their relatives bought from a property-management company that was one of their business partners in Indianapolis. The company, Oceanpointe Investments, was the seller of the homes the Morrises’ clients bought, and, according to the couple, it was supposed to do the renovations and manage the properties. The Morrises said that Oceanpointe, which many Morris Invest clients said they had never heard of until after buying the homes, is the real villain and liable for any damages. Few, if any, problems have arisen in other cities, they said. Oceanpointe blames the Morrises, saying they are responsible for the promises made to investors. Also caught in the middle are the renters who lived in some of the homes. They say that poor upkeep resulted in collapsing ceilings and frequent plumbing problems. Furnaces often did not work properly, leaving homes freezing cold in winter. One renter in a pending landlord-tenant case blamed poor living conditions for the premature birth of girl who died an hour after delivery.  The Morrises said they were not aware of the extent of the problems. “We didn’t know any were living in abject conditions,” Ms. Morris, 40, said. The unfolding affair demonstrates the allure that real estate speculation still holds for individual investors roughly a decade after one of the worst housing crises in United States history.  It can be problematic when such investors look to charismatic personalities for investing tips. Many of the financial gurus pushing investors into real estate play off fears of economic insecurity, according to Philip Garboden, a professor of affordable housing at the University of Hawaii at Manoa.  In a research working paper financed partly by the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development, Mr. Garboden wrote that amateur investors were vulnerable to exploitation by those who “evangelize” the process and tend to play down the risks of investing in “low-end” urban real estate. “These are very incestuous networks,” Mr. Garboden said in an interview. “They know the contractors. The property manager. The whole system thrives on keeping every dollar invested in that network.” Investment gurus, he said, tend to  have a common message: Investing in real estate can help guide the average investor to financial independence. Mr. Morris’s sales pitch did not lean heavily on his career in broadcast journalism. But he did not keep it a secret, either. He alluded to his new career in a lighthearted seven-minute video send-off that Fox News put together and that showed Mr. Morris competing in an obstacle course competition and grilling burgers outside the Manhattan studio. Real estate investing, he said in marketing materials, had given him the financial security to quit his 9 to 5 broadcast job. “I’m a big fan of this radical idea that everyone should be able to achieve total financial freedom,” the biography on one of his websites says.  With his wife — a former  anchor for CBS Interactive — he wrote a book, “How to Pay Off Your Mortgage in 5 Years.”  But the couple’s new venture did more than offer advice: It was a one-stop shopping experience for investors who wanted to buy rental homes — by dipping into their retirement savings, if necessary.  An email sent to one client who signed up last year summed up the pitch: Are you working LONG hours but never quite able to get ahead? Are you worried about making COSTLY mistakes with a vacant rental property? Are you intimidated by the thought of DOING IT ALL yourself? Stop worrying, and let us take care it! The Morrises pulled in hundreds of customers from across the United States and as far away as Israel and South Korea.  They helped sell nearly 700 homes in Indianapolis alone. “It was his name and his promise,” said Larry McLeskey, one of nearly two dozen individual investors suing Mr. Morris in the federal lawsuit. Mr. McLeskey, who lives in Michigan, said that he and his wife, Kay, had lost $40,000 after selling a home in Indianapolis. “No one was taking care of the home.”  Danny Gomes, a real estate agent from Redding, Calif., sued Morris Invest separately after, he said, he lost $52,000 on an Indianapolis home he bought last year, just days after it was largely destroyed in a fire. The house is now boarded up, its back half all but gone.  Mr. Gomes said he had learned about the fire only several months later, when the city sent him a notice warning that the property was unsafe and needed to be boarded up. Until then, he believed the house was being rehabilitated, work he paid for when he bought it. One of Mr. Morris’s employees, who is also Ms. Morris’s sister, told Mr. Gomes that she would be his “point of contact for the rehab process,” according to an email provided to The New York Times.  Mr. Gomes said it was only after he learned about the fire that he discovered Morris Invest was simply getting a referral fee for sending customers to Oceanpointe. “When it hit the fan,” Mr. Gomes said, “they said they were just the middleman.”  As the Morrises tell it, they were blindsided just like everyone else. The couple, who have three young children, said they were frustrated with all the anger directed at them. They have put their own home up for sale, in part out of concern for their safety.  They place the blame squarely on Oceanpointe and its founder, Bert Whalen.  The Morrises said they met Mr. Whalen in 2014, when they bought a few homes in Indianapolis and used Oceanpointe to fix up and manage them. By 2016, Mr. Morris was referring one or two investors a week to Mr. Whalen’s firm. The Morrises said they had eventually formalized the relationship, sending buyers to Oceanpointe and earning a fee on each sale. Mr. Morris said it was not until spring 2018 that he became fully aware of the problems his customers were having with Oceanpointe. The relationship formally ended in May. The Morrises said they would not have gotten involved with Mr. Whalen had they known that Indiana regulators moved to deny a renewal of his real estate license in December 2015. A state regulator determined that he had failed to disclose convictions for operating a car and motorboat while intoxicated and, on at least one occasion, had not turned over rent money he had collected for a property owner. His real estate license was permanently revoked in January 2018. Despite the break with Oceanpointe, the Morrises said they had many satisfied customers. Renovation work was done on 60 percent of the 700 homes sold in Indianapolis, Mr. Morris estimated.  “There are hundreds of people who are as happy as a clam,” he said. There are many, however, who are not. For clients dissatisfied with the work on their properties, Mr. Morris said Oceanpointe had agreed to indemnify Morris Invest against all lawsuits and investor claims. The Morrises’ lawyer sent a letter to Mr. Whalen in October seeking to enforce the indemnification agreement. The couple declined to provide a copy of the agreement. John Tompkins, a lawyer for Mr. Whalen, blamed Morris Invest, which he said had collected a $6,500 referral fee on every property. Mr. Whalen’s businesses “have done everything required by their investment agreements and contracts,” Mr. Tompkins said. He disputed the suggestion that the indemnification agreement held Oceanpointe solely responsible for problems with the selling of the homes.  “The problems that have come up relate to Morris exclusively,” Mr. Tompkins said. “The misunderstandings of those buyers related to misstatements by Morris and his sales personnel.” The Morrises have largely gotten out of the real estate business in Indianapolis. They are focused mainly on Detroit, where they have sold more than 200 homes, largely without the kind of complaints they face in Indianapolis.  Morris Invest, though, is no longer their top priority.  The Morrises are now selling an online financial advice and planning program: Financial Freedom Academy. The program offers a “proven system for building wealth, guaranteed,” according to its website. The site describes a conversation that Mr. Morris said transformed his life: He was seated next to real estate investor on a trip to New Zealand several years ago, and learned the man and his wife were on a two-month vacation after making money acquiring homes, fixing them up and renting them out. “From that moment on, I made it my mission to follow in his footsteps,” Mr. Morris says on the site.  Mr. Morris is inviting investors to follow in his footsteps with a nine-session online program at a special introductory rate of $697. Matthew Goldstein covers Wall Street and white collar crime and housing issues.  @mattgoldstein26 Supported by By Maggie Haberman and Peter Baker Bill Shine, the former Fox News executive who joined the White House staff last summer to manage President Trump’s communications operation, has resigned and will move to the president’s re-election campaign, the White House announced Friday. Mr. Shine’s abrupt departure came as a surprise to many in the White House and was revealed, as such personnel moves often are in this administration, as the president was on Air Force One leaving Washington. While described by admiring White House colleagues as a rare adult in the room, Mr. Shine has sometimes been absent during key moments, including the president’s trip last week to Vietnam. Colleagues said he had developed little chemistry with Mr. Trump, and critics increasingly focused on Mr. Shine’s ties to Fox, where he was forced out for his handling of sexual harassment claims. In a meeting late Friday morning with communications staff members, Mr. Shine told colleagues that he was leaving for two reasons, according to a person familiar with what took place. He said that he lived a solitary existence in Washington and missed his family, who remained in New York. But the second reason, he said, was that he had become a distraction for Mr. Trump and did not see that changing. The White House sought to present Mr. Shine’s resignation as amicable and issued statements in the name of the president and other officials praising him. But people close to the White House described the campaign job as a way to save face. “Bill Shine has done an outstanding job working for me and the administration,” Mr. Trump said in his statement. “We will miss him in the White House, but look forward to working together on the 2020 presidential campaign, where he will be totally involved. Thank you to Bill and his wonderful family!” In the same statement, Mr. Shine was quoted calling his time in the White House an honor and “the most rewarding experience” of his life. “I’m looking forward to working on President Trump’s re-election campaign and spending more time with my family,” he said. Mr. Shine, who held the title of deputy White House chief of staff, was the sixth person to accept the job to manage communications for the Trump White House, a position that has been problematic given that Mr. Trump prefers to be his own chief spokesman and rarely sticks to a messaging plan that aides seek to establish. The White House gave no indication who will replace Mr. Shine. Mr. Shine’s presence in the White House was seen as emblematic of how closely Mr. Trump has aligned himself with Fox, a symbiotic relationship that drew a critical appraisal in a much-read New Yorker article published this week. Mr. Trump has given the network about 45 interviews as president, using it to communicate with his most fervent supporters even as he embraces lines of argument that its hosts advance. Mr. Trump regularly posts messages on Twitter reacting to reports he sees on Fox and has been said to privately talk on the phone with Sean Hannity, the network’s marquee star, many nights after Mr. Hannity’s show. The line between the White House and Fox grew even blurrier last fall when Mr. Trump invited Mr. Hannity and another host, Jeanine Pirro, to join him onstage for a campaign rally, after which Mr. Shine and Mr. Hannity were seen sharing a high-five. The president routinely praises Fox hosts from the podium during speeches, and according to The New Yorker article, he has privately rated Fox hosts on a scale of 1 to 10 based on their loyalty to him. (Mr. Hannity got a 10.) Since President Trump’s inauguration, White House staffers and cabinet officials have left in firings and resignations, one after the other. Mr. Shine, who is personally close with Mr. Hannity, came into the White House with great fanfare last year. Initially, people there — particularly those close to John F. Kelly, then the White House chief of staff — described Mr. Shine favorably, saying he brought a mature presence to the team and, unusual for the White House, did not seem interested in seeking credit for himself. But as time wore on, it became clearer that Mr. Shine had not developed a close relationship with Mr. Trump. The president frequently complained to other advisers that his news coverage had not improved, according to several people familiar with Mr. Trump’s comments. And he was seen as ineffective, with few new ideas. Mr. Shine attached himself to Ivanka Trump, the president’s eldest daughter, and tried to help out with her media coverage. But an ABC News interview that she did included a question about how she and her husband, Jared Kushner, obtained their security clearances, which multiple White House officials said rankled her. Mr. Trump’s troubles recruiting and retaining communications chiefs have been striking even in a White House with the highest staff turnover in decades. Mr. Trump first gave the job after his election to a top campaign aide, Jason Miller, who backed out two days later after a campaign colleague disclosed on social media that he had impregnated her during an extramarital affair. Sean Spicer, the White House press secretary, then held the position as a second job until Mr. Trump hired Michael Dubke, a longtime Republican operative. Mr. Dubke resigned after a few months, leaving Mr. Spicer to fill in again. The most spectacular flameout came when Anthony Scaramucci, a brash and outspoken New York financier, was fired after just 11 days as communications director following a verbal tirade to a New Yorker reporter about other White House officials. Putting aside her own reservations, Hope Hicks, one of Mr. Trump’s most trusted aides, then took the job and held it until stepping down a year ago, the only person who was seen as successful at channeling the volatile president and maintaining the respect of her colleagues. Mr. Shine had spent more than a year searching for another job after he was ousted from Fox amid the scandal surrounding Roger Ailes and Bill O’Reilly and the accusations of sexual harassment that were made against them. Mr. Shine was not himself accused of improper behavior, but was faulted for a culture that sought to cover it up. The White House became his road to redemption. But Mr. Shine had increasingly been out of sight during key moments, including when the government shutdown began at the end of December. His wife, Darla, never relocated to Washington, and he was open about finding the travel away from her difficult. As the president tweeted about legislators leaving town at the end of the year, Mr. Shine was in Hawaii on a vacation with his wife. More recently, after telling people he was traveling to Vietnam for the president’s summit meeting with North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, last week, Mr. Shine ended up staying behind. As recently as two weeks ago, Mr. Shine was privately sharing his plans to revamp the White House communications shop with his allies in the administration. He said he wanted to “professionalize” a press team whose approach has often seemed ad hoc, according to a senior administration official who, like others, spoke on the condition of anonymity to describe internal dynamics. Mr. Shine also discussed streamlining the process to put more Trump surrogates on television. Although he failed to build enduring ties with the president, Mr. Shine was well liked in the administration, in part because he would often bear the brunt of the president’s criticism without trying to pass the blame on to others, a senior administration official said. Mr. Shine had also won the support of Mr. Trump’s children, including Ms. Trump. Katie Rogers and Annie Karni contributed reporting.   

Supported by By Maggie Haberman and Peter Baker Bill Shine, the former Fox News executive who joined the White House staff last summer to manage President Trump’s communications operation, has resigned and will move to the president’s re-election campaign, the White House announced Friday. Mr. Shine’s abrupt departure came as a surprise to many in the White House and was revealed, as such personnel moves often are in this administration, as the president was on Air Force One leaving Washington. While described by admiring White House colleagues as a rare adult in the room, Mr. Shine has sometimes been absent during key moments, including the president’s trip last week to Vietnam. Colleagues said he had developed little chemistry with Mr. Trump, and critics increasingly focused on Mr. Shine’s ties to Fox, where he was forced out for his handling of sexual harassment claims. In a meeting late Friday morning with communications staff members, Mr. Shine told colleagues that he was leaving for two reasons, according to a person familiar with what took place. He said that he lived a solitary existence in Washington and missed his family, who remained in New York. But the second reason, he said, was that he had become a distraction for Mr. Trump and did not see that changing. The White House sought to present Mr. Shine’s resignation as amicable and issued statements in the name of the president and other officials praising him. But people close to the White House described the campaign job as a way to save face. “Bill Shine has done an outstanding job working for me and the administration,” Mr. Trump said in his statement. “We will miss him in the White House, but look forward to working together on the 2020 presidential campaign, where he will be totally involved. Thank you to Bill and his wonderful family!” In the same statement, Mr. Shine was quoted calling his time in the White House an honor and “the most rewarding experience” of his life. “I’m looking forward to working on President Trump’s re-election campaign and spending more time with my family,” he said. Mr. Shine, who held the title of deputy White House chief of staff, was the sixth person to accept the job to manage communications for the Trump White House, a position that has been problematic given that Mr. Trump prefers to be his own chief spokesman and rarely sticks to a messaging plan that aides seek to establish. The White House gave no indication who will replace Mr. Shine. Mr. Shine’s presence in the White House was seen as emblematic of how closely Mr. Trump has aligned himself with Fox, a symbiotic relationship that drew a critical appraisal in a much-read New Yorker article published this week. Mr. Trump has given the network about 45 interviews as president, using it to communicate with his most fervent supporters even as he embraces lines of argument that its hosts advance. Mr. Trump regularly posts messages on Twitter reacting to reports he sees on Fox and has been said to privately talk on the phone with Sean Hannity, the network’s marquee star, many nights after Mr. Hannity’s show. The line between the White House and Fox grew even blurrier last fall when Mr. Trump invited Mr. Hannity and another host, Jeanine Pirro, to join him onstage for a campaign rally, after which Mr. Shine and Mr. Hannity were seen sharing a high-five. The president routinely praises Fox hosts from the podium during speeches, and according to The New Yorker article, he has privately rated Fox hosts on a scale of 1 to 10 based on their loyalty to him. (Mr. Hannity got a 10.) Since President Trump’s inauguration, White House staffers and cabinet officials have left in firings and resignations, one after the other. Mr. Shine, who is personally close with Mr. Hannity, came into the White House with great fanfare last year. Initially, people there — particularly those close to John F. Kelly, then the White House chief of staff — described Mr. Shine favorably, saying he brought a mature presence to the team and, unusual for the White House, did not seem interested in seeking credit for himself. But as time wore on, it became clearer that Mr. Shine had not developed a close relationship with Mr. Trump. The president frequently complained to other advisers that his news coverage had not improved, according to several people familiar with Mr. Trump’s comments. And he was seen as ineffective, with few new ideas. Mr. Shine attached himself to Ivanka Trump, the president’s eldest daughter, and tried to help out with her media coverage. But an ABC News interview that she did included a question about how she and her husband, Jared Kushner, obtained their security clearances, which multiple White House officials said rankled her. Mr. Trump’s troubles recruiting and retaining communications chiefs have been striking even in a White House with the highest staff turnover in decades. Mr. Trump first gave the job after his election to a top campaign aide, Jason Miller, who backed out two days later after a campaign colleague disclosed on social media that he had impregnated her during an extramarital affair. Sean Spicer, the White House press secretary, then held the position as a second job until Mr. Trump hired Michael Dubke, a longtime Republican operative. Mr. Dubke resigned after a few months, leaving Mr. Spicer to fill in again. The most spectacular flameout came when Anthony Scaramucci, a brash and outspoken New York financier, was fired after just 11 days as communications director following a verbal tirade to a New Yorker reporter about other White House officials. Putting aside her own reservations, Hope Hicks, one of Mr. Trump’s most trusted aides, then took the job and held it until stepping down a year ago, the only person who was seen as successful at channeling the volatile president and maintaining the respect of her colleagues. Mr. Shine had spent more than a year searching for another job after he was ousted from Fox amid the scandal surrounding Roger Ailes and Bill O’Reilly and the accusations of sexual harassment that were made against them. Mr. Shine was not himself accused of improper behavior, but was faulted for a culture that sought to cover it up. The White House became his road to redemption. But Mr. Shine had increasingly been out of sight during key moments, including when the government shutdown began at the end of December. His wife, Darla, never relocated to Washington, and he was open about finding the travel away from her difficult. As the president tweeted about legislators leaving town at the end of the year, Mr. Shine was in Hawaii on a vacation with his wife. More recently, after telling people he was traveling to Vietnam for the president’s summit meeting with North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, last week, Mr. Shine ended up staying behind. As recently as two weeks ago, Mr. Shine was privately sharing his plans to revamp the White House communications shop with his allies in the administration. He said he wanted to “professionalize” a press team whose approach has often seemed ad hoc, according to a senior administration official who, like others, spoke on the condition of anonymity to describe internal dynamics. Mr. Shine also discussed streamlining the process to put more Trump surrogates on television. Although he failed to build enduring ties with the president, Mr. Shine was well liked in the administration, in part because he would often bear the brunt of the president’s criticism without trying to pass the blame on to others, a senior administration official said. Mr. Shine had also won the support of Mr. Trump’s children, including Ms. Trump. Katie Rogers and Annie Karni contributed reporting.   Supported by letters Readers disagree about whether this is a principled reaction to a “full-time propaganda channel” or a missed opportunity to address the Fox audience. To the Editor: Re “Democrats, Debate on Fox,” by Liz Mair (Op-Ed, March 9): This Op-Ed seems to make sense: Why should the Democrats spurn those who watch Fox News, many of whom are moderates and, indeed, Democrats themselves? Why abandon any substantial audience? Someone has to call Fox out, that’s why. Fox News is a full-time propaganda channel. It is not just the hours of preaching to the right-wing choir in the evenings. The news menu during the day is, itself, carefully and cleverly designed to incite fear and set up the audience for the evening-long bashing of moderates, liberals and Democrats.  All of America should reject this arm of the Republican Party. As for me, I don’t want any deliberately slanted news from any source. I want facts, and Fox does an excellent job of obscuring them. Doug TerryOlney, Md.The writer is a former journalist and currently produces documentaries. To the Editor: The Democratic National Committee’s decision to bar Fox News from hosting a presidential debate is indeed, as Liz Mair writes, “shortsighted and pointless.” What better way to counter the right’s worldview and present an alternative. Go into the belly of the beast. Yes, a Democrat may not garner many votes from this exercise, but at least he or she will be able to present an unvarnished point of view free of Fox spin.  Theresa MannixSeattle To the Editor: Fox viewers have access to all of the same channels as everyone else and therefore should be no more aggrieved than viewers of ESPN, MTV or whichever other channels don’t host a debate.  Jane Mayer’s exhaustive piece “The Making of the Fox News White House” in The New Yorker chronicled the corrupting connection between Fox and the G.O.P. Fox News is a mouthpiece of the G.O.P. and vice versa. Hosting a debate is a privilege, and Fox hasn’t earned it.  Josh WilsonKobe, Japan To the Editor: When Bret Stephens joined The New York Times there were cries of protest from liberal readers. Although as a lifelong Democrat I don’t agree with everything he espouses, his articles have proven to be extremely astute as he presents sides of the political argument that challenge left-wing policies. This is important. Now the Democrats, having made the decision to bar Fox News from hosting a 2020 presidential primary debate, are once again closing their ears and minds to opposing views. Liz Mair is right in stating that this is very shortsighted. She rightly points out that many Democrats and independents watch Fox News. Not only is there a danger of shutting those potential voters out, but one also has to ask: What are the Democrats afraid of?  Ellen ShireNew York

Supported by letters Readers disagree about whether this is a principled reaction to a “full-time propaganda channel” or a missed opportunity to address the Fox audience. To the Editor: Re “Democrats, Debate on Fox,” by Liz Mair (Op-Ed, March 9): This Op-Ed seems to make sense: Why should the Democrats spurn those who watch Fox News, many of whom are moderates and, indeed, Democrats themselves? Why abandon any substantial audience? Someone has to call Fox out, that’s why. Fox News is a full-time propaganda channel. It is not just the hours of preaching to the right-wing choir in the evenings. The news menu during the day is, itself, carefully and cleverly designed to incite fear and set up the audience for the evening-long bashing of moderates, liberals and Democrats.  All of America should reject this arm of the Republican Party. As for me, I don’t want any deliberately slanted news from any source. I want facts, and Fox does an excellent job of obscuring them. Doug TerryOlney, Md.The writer is a former journalist and currently produces documentaries. To the Editor: The Democratic National Committee’s decision to bar Fox News from hosting a presidential debate is indeed, as Liz Mair writes, “shortsighted and pointless.” What better way to counter the right’s worldview and present an alternative. Go into the belly of the beast. Yes, a Democrat may not garner many votes from this exercise, but at least he or she will be able to present an unvarnished point of view free of Fox spin.  Theresa MannixSeattle To the Editor: Fox viewers have access to all of the same channels as everyone else and therefore should be no more aggrieved than viewers of ESPN, MTV or whichever other channels don’t host a debate.  Jane Mayer’s exhaustive piece “The Making of the Fox News White House” in The New Yorker chronicled the corrupting connection between Fox and the G.O.P. Fox News is a mouthpiece of the G.O.P. and vice versa. Hosting a debate is a privilege, and Fox hasn’t earned it.  Josh WilsonKobe, Japan To the Editor: When Bret Stephens joined The New York Times there were cries of protest from liberal readers. Although as a lifelong Democrat I don’t agree with everything he espouses, his articles have proven to be extremely astute as he presents sides of the political argument that challenge left-wing policies. This is important. Now the Democrats, having made the decision to bar Fox News from hosting a 2020 presidential primary debate, are once again closing their ears and minds to opposing views. Liz Mair is right in stating that this is very shortsighted. She rightly points out that many Democrats and independents watch Fox News. Not only is there a danger of shutting those potential voters out, but one also has to ask: What are the Democrats afraid of?  Ellen ShireNew YorkSupported by By Sarah Mervosh In this era of political division, which cable news network you watch can reveal a lot about your political preferences. For Republicans, it’s Fox News. For Democrats, it’s CNN or MSNBC. But for a major retailer that serves the military, it’s simple: Don’t get involved. The retailer, the Army & Air Force Exchange Service, which operates general and convenience stores and food courts on military bases in 34 countries, emailed locations this week recommending that they move away from playing news on public televisions and instead show a less partisan alternative: sports. “As a federal entity, we remain neutral on political issues,” the message said. “News channels should not be shown on common area TVs due to their divisive political nature.” In a second message to stores this week, the retailer removed its comments about news and politics but continued to suggest that televisions be tuned to sports. “This guidance allows flexibility to make adjustments based on the ‘news of the day’ and local needs,” it said. Stars and Stripes reported news of the first message on Wednesday. The Army & Air Force Exchange Service, which is part of the Department of Defense and one of the largest retailers in the country, is the latest group to try to tiptoe around the question of what to do with televisions in shared spaces, at a time when partisan identification has grown to be one of the biggest wedges in America. In recent years, people have complained about Fox News playing in doctors’ offices and hospitals, leading one waiting room in California to block the network temporarily. Dozens of airports across the country show CNN to the chagrin of those who see the network as biased. Thousands of people signed an online petition to “remove CNN’s airport monopoly.” One fitness chain decided it was best to get rid of cable news entirely. The chain, Life Time, a Minnesota-based gym with locations across the country, removed cable news — both left- and right-leaning stations, including CNN, Fox News and MSNBC — from the large-screen televisions in its gyms last year as part of its commitment to a “healthy way of life.” T. Franklin Waddell, an assistant professor of journalism at the University of Florida, said that people tend to make assumptions about overall public opinion based on which news network is shown on public televisions. “If you walk into a store or a restaurant and all the televisions are tuned to Fox News, you might make assumptions about the climate of public opinion and that can affect how likely you are to express your own political opinions,” he said. “Those might be issues we can sidestep entirely if something more neutral was put on,” he added. Chris Ward, a spokesman for Army & Air Force Exchange Service, said the emails this week were a general reminder, not a new policy, and were not prompted by any particular incident. “We, of course, periodically do get complaints from customers,” he said. “If they are a CNN person, they don’t want it on Fox. If they are a Fox person, they don’t want it on CNN.” The recommendation to turn to sports in food courts and other commons areas, he said, was a way to “appeal to the masses,” but he said it was just that: a recommendation. “It’s not a hard and fast policy,” he said. “No one is going to get their hands slapped if they put the news on. It was more just guidance, like, hey, when in doubt, you can’t really go wrong with sports.” Follow Sarah Mervosh on Twitter: @smervosh.   

Supported by By Sarah Mervosh In this era of political division, which cable news network you watch can reveal a lot about your political preferences. For Republicans, it’s Fox News. For Democrats, it’s CNN or MSNBC. But for a major retailer that serves the military, it’s simple: Don’t get involved. The retailer, the Army & Air Force Exchange Service, which operates general and convenience stores and food courts on military bases in 34 countries, emailed locations this week recommending that they move away from playing news on public televisions and instead show a less partisan alternative: sports. “As a federal entity, we remain neutral on political issues,” the message said. “News channels should not be shown on common area TVs due to their divisive political nature.” In a second message to stores this week, the retailer removed its comments about news and politics but continued to suggest that televisions be tuned to sports. “This guidance allows flexibility to make adjustments based on the ‘news of the day’ and local needs,” it said. Stars and Stripes reported news of the first message on Wednesday. The Army & Air Force Exchange Service, which is part of the Department of Defense and one of the largest retailers in the country, is the latest group to try to tiptoe around the question of what to do with televisions in shared spaces, at a time when partisan identification has grown to be one of the biggest wedges in America. In recent years, people have complained about Fox News playing in doctors’ offices and hospitals, leading one waiting room in California to block the network temporarily. Dozens of airports across the country show CNN to the chagrin of those who see the network as biased. Thousands of people signed an online petition to “remove CNN’s airport monopoly.” One fitness chain decided it was best to get rid of cable news entirely. The chain, Life Time, a Minnesota-based gym with locations across the country, removed cable news — both left- and right-leaning stations, including CNN, Fox News and MSNBC — from the large-screen televisions in its gyms last year as part of its commitment to a “healthy way of life.” T. Franklin Waddell, an assistant professor of journalism at the University of Florida, said that people tend to make assumptions about overall public opinion based on which news network is shown on public televisions. “If you walk into a store or a restaurant and all the televisions are tuned to Fox News, you might make assumptions about the climate of public opinion and that can affect how likely you are to express your own political opinions,” he said. “Those might be issues we can sidestep entirely if something more neutral was put on,” he added. Chris Ward, a spokesman for Army & Air Force Exchange Service, said the emails this week were a general reminder, not a new policy, and were not prompted by any particular incident. “We, of course, periodically do get complaints from customers,” he said. “If they are a CNN person, they don’t want it on Fox. If they are a Fox person, they don’t want it on CNN.” The recommendation to turn to sports in food courts and other commons areas, he said, was a way to “appeal to the masses,” but he said it was just that: a recommendation. “It’s not a hard and fast policy,” he said. “No one is going to get their hands slapped if they put the news on. It was more just guidance, like, hey, when in doubt, you can’t really go wrong with sports.” Follow Sarah Mervosh on Twitter: @smervosh.   Supported by By Michael M. Grynbaum On Fox News, Bret Baier broke out his reading glasses. On CNN, Jake Tapper read a website U.R.L. aloud. On NBC, the legal correspondent Pete Williams brandished a three-ring binder stuffed with freshly printed pages, holding up a sheet covered almost entirely by black bars of redacted text. Journalists received their copies of the Mueller report — all 448 pages — at the same time as the general public on Thursday. Except they had to explain it all on live TV, and the sooner the better. The result, for television viewers, was a halting, if ultimately educational glimpse at the tedious mechanics of real-time reporting: sifting through documents, puzzling over footnotes. “We’re all going to law school here today,” the anchor Savannah Guthrie told NBC viewers. Catherine Herridge of Fox News, speed-reading (and speed-analyzing) on-camera, asked her colleagues for patience. “I’m going to take a break here, continue reading, and flag headlines as we get them,” she said. MSNBC kept its legal analyst, Ari Melber, sequestered at a small desk on-set, occasionally throwing to him for updates. The occasionally explicit content on the report meant journalists had to tread carefully. Paula Reid of CBS News, reading aloud a description of President Trump’s dismay on learning of the appointment of the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, chose her words tactfully. She replaced a profane phrase uttered by Mr. Trump with the more broadcast-appropriate, “I’m effed.” It was a big day for the collective national reality show, but the play-by-play commentators needed some time to digest. On Twitter, armchair analysts swapped screenshots of dense legalese. Vice, the millennial-focused news outlet, featured a livestream of Michael Kalenderian, a writer and producer, seated at a desk, reading the report out loud as spooky music played. In New York, the local station NY1 aimed a camera at its newsroom printer, which was egesting the report, one sheet at a time. By Thursday afternoon, the day’s prevailing visual remained the bespectacled face of Attorney General William Barr, who presided over a morning news conference that quickly raised partisan ire. Mr. Barr’s depiction of Mr. Trump as a victim of sorts — suggesting that the president’s frustration with the “relentless speculation in the news media” was a factor in whether he had intended to obstruct justice — prompted some journalists to question the attorney general’s words. It was “an extraordinary political commercial for the president,” said Jeffrey Toobin on CNN, summing up his fellow panelists’ skepticism about Mr. Barr’s remarks. On Fox News, Chris Wallace said that Mr. Barr “seemed almost to be acting as the counselor for the defense, as the counsel for the president, rather than the attorney general — talking about his motives, talking about his anger, his feeling that this was unfair.” Others saw less to worry about. “Barr says there are only light redactions of the report, says Congress will get an unredacted version of the report, and says he has no problem with Mueller testifying — and the media concludes that he is covering for Trump,” Rich Lowry, editor of National Review, wrote on Twitter. In a twist, Mr. Trump declined to weigh in personally, ignoring reporters gathered on the South Lawn of the White House as he boarded a helicopter for a holiday weekend in Florida. But the president did tweet an image of the words “Game Over,” rendered in the medieval font familiar to fans of the HBO show “Game of Thrones.” HBO, not known as a Trump-friendly network, offered a polite riposte. “Though we can understand the enthusiasm for ‘Game of Thrones’ now that the final season has arrived, we still prefer our intellectual property not be used for political purposes,” the network said in a statement. It seemed fitting that Mr. Trump reached for a television metaphor to comment on a story line that has dominated the airwaves for the past two years. Even as journalists disagreed over the report’s findings, debating Mr. Mueller’s conclusions and whether Mr. Trump’s actions amounted to anything criminal, they agreed that events on Thursday were more of a cliffhanger than a series finale. The Mueller Show would go on. “We might have thought we were at the end of this,” the political analyst Brit Hume said on Fox News. “We may still be in the middle of it.”  

Supported by By Michael M. Grynbaum On Fox News, Bret Baier broke out his reading glasses. On CNN, Jake Tapper read a website U.R.L. aloud. On NBC, the legal correspondent Pete Williams brandished a three-ring binder stuffed with freshly printed pages, holding up a sheet covered almost entirely by black bars of redacted text. Journalists received their copies of the Mueller report — all 448 pages — at the same time as the general public on Thursday. Except they had to explain it all on live TV, and the sooner the better. The result, for television viewers, was a halting, if ultimately educational glimpse at the tedious mechanics of real-time reporting: sifting through documents, puzzling over footnotes. “We’re all going to law school here today,” the anchor Savannah Guthrie told NBC viewers. Catherine Herridge of Fox News, speed-reading (and speed-analyzing) on-camera, asked her colleagues for patience. “I’m going to take a break here, continue reading, and flag headlines as we get them,” she said. MSNBC kept its legal analyst, Ari Melber, sequestered at a small desk on-set, occasionally throwing to him for updates. The occasionally explicit content on the report meant journalists had to tread carefully. Paula Reid of CBS News, reading aloud a description of President Trump’s dismay on learning of the appointment of the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, chose her words tactfully. She replaced a profane phrase uttered by Mr. Trump with the more broadcast-appropriate, “I’m effed.” It was a big day for the collective national reality show, but the play-by-play commentators needed some time to digest. On Twitter, armchair analysts swapped screenshots of dense legalese. Vice, the millennial-focused news outlet, featured a livestream of Michael Kalenderian, a writer and producer, seated at a desk, reading the report out loud as spooky music played. In New York, the local station NY1 aimed a camera at its newsroom printer, which was egesting the report, one sheet at a time. By Thursday afternoon, the day’s prevailing visual remained the bespectacled face of Attorney General William Barr, who presided over a morning news conference that quickly raised partisan ire. Mr. Barr’s depiction of Mr. Trump as a victim of sorts — suggesting that the president’s frustration with the “relentless speculation in the news media” was a factor in whether he had intended to obstruct justice — prompted some journalists to question the attorney general’s words. It was “an extraordinary political commercial for the president,” said Jeffrey Toobin on CNN, summing up his fellow panelists’ skepticism about Mr. Barr’s remarks. On Fox News, Chris Wallace said that Mr. Barr “seemed almost to be acting as the counselor for the defense, as the counsel for the president, rather than the attorney general — talking about his motives, talking about his anger, his feeling that this was unfair.” Others saw less to worry about. “Barr says there are only light redactions of the report, says Congress will get an unredacted version of the report, and says he has no problem with Mueller testifying — and the media concludes that he is covering for Trump,” Rich Lowry, editor of National Review, wrote on Twitter. In a twist, Mr. Trump declined to weigh in personally, ignoring reporters gathered on the South Lawn of the White House as he boarded a helicopter for a holiday weekend in Florida. But the president did tweet an image of the words “Game Over,” rendered in the medieval font familiar to fans of the HBO show “Game of Thrones.” HBO, not known as a Trump-friendly network, offered a polite riposte. “Though we can understand the enthusiasm for ‘Game of Thrones’ now that the final season has arrived, we still prefer our intellectual property not be used for political purposes,” the network said in a statement. It seemed fitting that Mr. Trump reached for a television metaphor to comment on a story line that has dominated the airwaves for the past two years. Even as journalists disagreed over the report’s findings, debating Mr. Mueller’s conclusions and whether Mr. Trump’s actions amounted to anything criminal, they agreed that events on Thursday were more of a cliffhanger than a series finale. The Mueller Show would go on. “We might have thought we were at the end of this,” the political analyst Brit Hume said on Fox News. “We may still be in the middle of it.”  Supported by letters After a weekend of dozens of tweets, some see signs that President Trump is increasingly mentally unbalanced. To the Editor: Re “Seeking Clues Behind Trump’s Weekend Twitter Barrage” (news article, March 19): For over two years we have watched President Trump become more and more unhinged. This past weekend should have been a frightening experience for even the most casual observer of our political situation. His disjointed attacks on the Mueller investigation and irrational rants against the late Senator John McCain should make his enablers in Congress more than nervous. It is getting harder to ignore that we apparently have an emotionally unbalanced individual as our chief executive. For Congress to ignore these obvious signs is a dereliction of duty.  Ted DicksonNew York To the Editor: President Trump’s recent tweets do not mean that he is unraveling or a madman; he is just throwing a temper tantrum. All his adult life he has surrounded himself with sycophants who catered to his every whim. Fox News has been filling that role by stroking his ego. A plausible reason for the recent tweets is not necessarily the Mueller investigation or the rebuke from Congress on his emergency declaration, but more likely that Fox News suspended the “Justice With Judge Jeanine” show Saturday night (“After a Rare Public Rebuke, Fox News Suspends a Host, to the President’s Chagrin,” news article, March 18).  His cuddly bear and enabler was taken away from him, and he lashed out like a spoiled little boy. But through denial and more projection and maybe a rally or numerous likes on his Twitter feed, he will be back to his old grandiose self in a few days.  George Magakis Jr.Norristown, Pa. To the Editor: So much attention is being paid to President Trump’s tweets, the Mueller investigation, terrorism, immigration. But how about focusing on a truly inspiring story of the indomitable strength of the family, the foundation of society. If Kellyanne and George Conway can keep it together, despite Mr. Conway’s questioning the president’s mental fitness, there’s hope for all of us. Tom FritschlerPort Angeles, Wash.

Supported by letters After a weekend of dozens of tweets, some see signs that President Trump is increasingly mentally unbalanced. To the Editor: Re “Seeking Clues Behind Trump’s Weekend Twitter Barrage” (news article, March 19): For over two years we have watched President Trump become more and more unhinged. This past weekend should have been a frightening experience for even the most casual observer of our political situation. His disjointed attacks on the Mueller investigation and irrational rants against the late Senator John McCain should make his enablers in Congress more than nervous. It is getting harder to ignore that we apparently have an emotionally unbalanced individual as our chief executive. For Congress to ignore these obvious signs is a dereliction of duty.  Ted DicksonNew York To the Editor: President Trump’s recent tweets do not mean that he is unraveling or a madman; he is just throwing a temper tantrum. All his adult life he has surrounded himself with sycophants who catered to his every whim. Fox News has been filling that role by stroking his ego. A plausible reason for the recent tweets is not necessarily the Mueller investigation or the rebuke from Congress on his emergency declaration, but more likely that Fox News suspended the “Justice With Judge Jeanine” show Saturday night (“After a Rare Public Rebuke, Fox News Suspends a Host, to the President’s Chagrin,” news article, March 18).  His cuddly bear and enabler was taken away from him, and he lashed out like a spoiled little boy. But through denial and more projection and maybe a rally or numerous likes on his Twitter feed, he will be back to his old grandiose self in a few days.  George Magakis Jr.Norristown, Pa. To the Editor: So much attention is being paid to President Trump’s tweets, the Mueller investigation, terrorism, immigration. But how about focusing on a truly inspiring story of the indomitable strength of the family, the foundation of society. If Kellyanne and George Conway can keep it together, despite Mr. Conway’s questioning the president’s mental fitness, there’s hope for all of us. Tom FritschlerPort Angeles, Wash.

      By LIAM STACK

APRIL 3, 2019
 
Using 150 interviews on three continents, The Times describes the Murdoch family’s role in destabilizing democracy in North America, Europe and Australia.
 


        Using 150 interviews on three continents, The Times describes the Murdoch family’s role in destabilizing democracy in North America, Europe and Australia.
          
       By LIAM STACK APRIL 3, 2019 Rupert Murdoch, the founder of a global media empire that includes Fox News, has said he “never asked a prime minister for anything.” But that empire has given him influence over world affairs in a way few private citizens ever have, granting the Murdoch family enormous sway over not just the United States, but English-speaking countries around the world. A six-month investigation by The New York Times covering three continents and including more than 150 interviews has described how Mr. Murdoch and his feuding sons turned their media outlets into right-wing political influence machines that have destabilized democracy in North America, Europe and Australia. Here are some key takeaways from The Times’s investigation into the Murdoch family and its role in the illiberal, right-wing political wave sweeping the globe. Fox News has long exerted a gravitational pull on the Republican Party in the United States, where it most recently amplified the nativist revolt that has fueled the rise of the far right and the election of President Trump. Mr. Murdoch’s newspaper The Sun spent years demonizing the European Union to its readers in Britain, where it helped lead the Brexit campaign that persuaded a slim majority of voters in a 2016 referendum to endorse pulling out of the bloc. Political havoc has reigned in Britain ever since. [Read the complete investigation into the Murdoch family.] And in Australia, where his hold over the media is most extensive, Mr. Murdoch’s outlets pushed for the repeal of the country’s carbon tax and helped topple a series of prime ministers whose agenda he disliked, including Malcolm Turnbull last year. At the center of this upheaval sits the Murdoch family, a clan whose dysfunction has both shaped and mirrored the global tumult of recent years. The Times explored those family dynamics and their impact on the Murdoch empire, which is on the cusp of succession as its 88-year-old patriarch prepares to hand power to the son whose politics most resemble his own: Lachlan Murdoch. A key step in that succession has paradoxically been the partial dismemberment of the empire, which significantly shrunk last month when Mr. Murdoch sold one of his companies, the film studio 21st Century Fox, to the Walt Disney Company for $71.3 billion. The deal turned Mr. Murdoch’s children into billionaires and left Lachlan in control of a powerful political weapon: a streamlined company, the Fox Corporation, whose most potent asset is Fox News. Succession has been a source of tension in the Murdoch family for years, particularly between Mr. Murdoch’s sons Lachlan and James. His two sons are very different people. James wanted the company to become more digitally focused and more politically moderate, while Lachlan wanted to lean into the reactionary politics of the moment. [Read the complete investigation into the Murdoch family.] The brothers have spent their lives competing to succeed their father, and both men felt as if they had earned the top job. When Mr. Murdoch decided to promote Lachlan over James, it was Lachlan who delivered the news to James over lunch, souring the already poor relationship between the men. James briefly quit the company in protest. But he was lured back by a carefully crafted compromise that put Lachlan in charge but allowed James to save face by maintaining the public illusion that he was the heir. But all of these succession plans — as well as the lucrative Disney deal — were thrown into chaos last year when Mr. Murdoch broke his spine and collapsed on a yacht. He was rushed to a hospital, and appeared to be so close to death that his wife, the model Jerry Hall, summoned his children to say their goodbyes. Mr. Murdoch survived, but his brush with death only highlighted the instability in his family — and at the heart of his empire. Mr. Murdoch’s media outlets have promoted right-wing politics and stoked reactionary populism across the globe in recent years. During the 2016 campaign, the Fox News host Sean Hannity advised the president’s former lawyer, Michael D. Cohen, to be on the lookout for ex-girlfriends or former employees of Mr. Trump lest they cause him trouble, according to two people who know about the interactions (Hannity denies offering such advice). Mr. Cohen was later sentenced to three years in prison for paying hush money to two women who said they had affairs with Mr. Trump. [Read the complete investigation into the Murdoch family.] The Murdoch empire has also boldly flexed its muscles in Australia, which was for many years Lachlan’s domain. In Australia, Lachlan expressed disdain for efforts to fight climate change and once rebuked the staff at one of his family’s newspapers, The Australian, for an editorial in support of same-sex marriage (He says through a representative that he is in favor of same-sex marriage). He also became close to the politician Tony Abbott, whose 2013 election as prime minister was given an assist by Murdoch newspapers. The Murdoch family changed Australian politics in 2016 when it took control of Sky News Australia and imported the Fox News model. They quickly introduced a slate of right-wing opinion shows that often focused on race, immigration and climate change. The programming became known as Sky After Dark. Last year, Mr. Turnbull and his staff accused Rupert and Lachlan Murdoch of using their media outlets to help foment the intraparty coup that thrust him from office in August. Mr. Turnbull, a moderate and longtime nemesis of his friend Mr. Abbott, was replaced by the right-wing nationalist Scott Morrison. The Murdochs have denied any role in Mr. Turnbull’s downfall. James Murdoch became disillusioned with the family empire in the years before Lachlan emerged as heir. He came to see Fox News, in particular, as a source of damaging ideological baggage that was hobbling the company’s efforts to innovate and grow. But Lachlan and Rupert did not share that belief. When Roger Ailes, the chief executive of Fox News, was ousted in 2016 amid a sexual harassment scandal, James wanted to revamp the network as a less partisan news outlet. He even floated the idea of hiring David Rhodes, a CBS executive. [Read the complete investigation into the Murdoch family.] His proposals went nowhere. Lachlan and Rupert opposed any change to what they saw as a winning formula and decided to stick with Fox’s incendiary programming. But James believed he had seen firsthand the damage that outlets like Fox News were doing to the company. He was the face of the Murdoch empire in Britain during a 2010 attempt to take over British Sky Broadcasting, in which the company owned a minority stake. That bid was blown to pieces by the 2011 phone hacking scandal, which forced James and his father to appear before Parliament to explain why their employees hacked into the voice mail of private citizens, including a dead 13-year-old girl. The scandal forced the Murdochs to abandon their bid for Sky. Five years later, facing pressure from digital rivals like Netflix and Amazon, the family made a second bid for Sky. James again acted as the empire’s public face. The bid again collapsed in a humiliating scandal. This time it centered on the culture of Fox News, where sexual misconduct allegations and millions of dollars in secret settlements led to the departure of Mr. Ailes, the star host Bill O’Reilly and Bill Shine, an executive who later went to work for President Trump. The behavior of Mr. Hannity, who used his show to spread conspiracy theories about the death of a Democratic National Committee staff member named Seth Rich, also fed concerns in Britain over the ethics of the company. After months of review by regulators — and scrambling inside 21st Century Fox — the British government issued a withering rebuke to the Murdochs last year. Not only did Britain block the company’s bid for Sky, it also ruled that no member of the Murdoch family could serve at Sky in any capacity, including on its board. At the time, James was serving as Sky’s chairman. It was a deep humiliation that convinced James once and for all that the family empire could not survive its own politics and culture. Lachlan instead saw it as validation of his belief that James, having failed to acquire Sky once, had been the wrong man for the job. Either way, by putting a much-needed revenue stream permanently outside the family’s grasp, it helped make the sale of 21st Century Fox inevitable. James and Lachlan were bitterly split over the prospect of selling 21st Century Fox to Disney. James pushed hard for the deal, which was completed last month, and Lachlan fiercely opposed it. Lachlan vociferously opposed the deal because it substantially shrank the company he returned from Australia to one day lead, people closer to his brother said. He felt so strongly that at one point he warned his father he would stop speaking to him if he continued to pursue the deal. Mr. Murdoch ignored that threat. (Lachlan denied making the threat.) [Read the complete investigation into the Murdoch family.] Lachlan’s opposition was also fueled in part by his suspicion that his brother’s judgment had been clouded by personal ambition, people closer to Lachlan said. He thought James was willing to sell 21st Century Fox for less than it was worth because he wanted the deal to include a job for himself at Disney. The deal transformed Disney into a media colossus, and a job there might have enabled James to position himself as a successor to its chief executive, Robert A. Iger. It would also let him escape the family company, its political baggage and the prospect of working for Lachlan. The two brothers clashed over everything. When James wanted to respond to President Trump’s 2017 travel ban with a statement reassuring their company’s Muslim employees, Lachlan strenuously resisted. When James bought their father’s Beverly Hills mansion for $30 million, Lachlan, who had also wanted the house, got so upset that their father gave him some of its antique furniture. James thought he had bought that, too. During the Disney negotiations, Mr. Murdoch grew concerned enough that James’s ambitions might interfere with the deal that he decided to assure Mr. Iger that it was not conditional upon Disney’s hiring his son. In the end, the sale went through, but James did not get a job. Today, the two brothers are barely on speaking terms. After the Disney deal, the commitment of Mr. Murdoch’s children to what remains of his media empire has been called into question. The Disney deal made all of them an enormous amount of money: Mr. Murdoch received $4 billion and his children received $2 billion each. As executives at 21st Century Fox, Lachlan and James got an additional $20 million in Disney stock plus golden parachutes worth $70 million each. [Read the complete investigation into the Murdoch family.] Mr. Murdoch had structured his companies, 21st Century Fox and News Corporation, so that the Murdoch Family Trust held a controlling interest in them. He held half of the trust’s eight votes, and the remaining four were divided up among his four adult children. They were barred from selling those shares to outsiders. James struck out on his own at the end of 2018. To make a more complete break with the company, he and his sisters Elisabeth and Prudence offered to sell their shares to Lachlan. Mr. Murdoch embraced the idea and urged Lachlan to buy out his siblings. Then father and son would own the company together. Bankers drew up documents to execute the sale, but Lachlan backed out; he said that it was not financially doable, though the decision raised questions about his commitment to the company. People close to James said they believed Lachlan was not sure he wanted to stay at the company after the Disney deal was complete. They said he might even want to go back to Australia. April 3, 2019 April 3, 2019 April 3, 2019 



      By LIAM STACK

APRIL 3, 2019
 
Using 150 interviews on three continents, The Times describes the Murdoch family’s role in destabilizing democracy in North America, Europe and Australia.
 


        Using 150 interviews on three continents, The Times describes the Murdoch family’s role in destabilizing democracy in North America, Europe and Australia.
          
       By LIAM STACK APRIL 3, 2019 Rupert Murdoch, the founder of a global media empire that includes Fox News, has said he “never asked a prime minister for anything.” But that empire has given him influence over world affairs in a way few private citizens ever have, granting the Murdoch family enormous sway over not just the United States, but English-speaking countries around the world. A six-month investigation by The New York Times covering three continents and including more than 150 interviews has described how Mr. Murdoch and his feuding sons turned their media outlets into right-wing political influence machines that have destabilized democracy in North America, Europe and Australia. Here are some key takeaways from The Times’s investigation into the Murdoch family and its role in the illiberal, right-wing political wave sweeping the globe. Fox News has long exerted a gravitational pull on the Republican Party in the United States, where it most recently amplified the nativist revolt that has fueled the rise of the far right and the election of President Trump. Mr. Murdoch’s newspaper The Sun spent years demonizing the European Union to its readers in Britain, where it helped lead the Brexit campaign that persuaded a slim majority of voters in a 2016 referendum to endorse pulling out of the bloc. Political havoc has reigned in Britain ever since. [Read the complete investigation into the Murdoch family.] And in Australia, where his hold over the media is most extensive, Mr. Murdoch’s outlets pushed for the repeal of the country’s carbon tax and helped topple a series of prime ministers whose agenda he disliked, including Malcolm Turnbull last year. At the center of this upheaval sits the Murdoch family, a clan whose dysfunction has both shaped and mirrored the global tumult of recent years. The Times explored those family dynamics and their impact on the Murdoch empire, which is on the cusp of succession as its 88-year-old patriarch prepares to hand power to the son whose politics most resemble his own: Lachlan Murdoch. A key step in that succession has paradoxically been the partial dismemberment of the empire, which significantly shrunk last month when Mr. Murdoch sold one of his companies, the film studio 21st Century Fox, to the Walt Disney Company for $71.3 billion. The deal turned Mr. Murdoch’s children into billionaires and left Lachlan in control of a powerful political weapon: a streamlined company, the Fox Corporation, whose most potent asset is Fox News. Succession has been a source of tension in the Murdoch family for years, particularly between Mr. Murdoch’s sons Lachlan and James. His two sons are very different people. James wanted the company to become more digitally focused and more politically moderate, while Lachlan wanted to lean into the reactionary politics of the moment. [Read the complete investigation into the Murdoch family.] The brothers have spent their lives competing to succeed their father, and both men felt as if they had earned the top job. When Mr. Murdoch decided to promote Lachlan over James, it was Lachlan who delivered the news to James over lunch, souring the already poor relationship between the men. James briefly quit the company in protest. But he was lured back by a carefully crafted compromise that put Lachlan in charge but allowed James to save face by maintaining the public illusion that he was the heir. But all of these succession plans — as well as the lucrative Disney deal — were thrown into chaos last year when Mr. Murdoch broke his spine and collapsed on a yacht. He was rushed to a hospital, and appeared to be so close to death that his wife, the model Jerry Hall, summoned his children to say their goodbyes. Mr. Murdoch survived, but his brush with death only highlighted the instability in his family — and at the heart of his empire. Mr. Murdoch’s media outlets have promoted right-wing politics and stoked reactionary populism across the globe in recent years. During the 2016 campaign, the Fox News host Sean Hannity advised the president’s former lawyer, Michael D. Cohen, to be on the lookout for ex-girlfriends or former employees of Mr. Trump lest they cause him trouble, according to two people who know about the interactions (Hannity denies offering such advice). Mr. Cohen was later sentenced to three years in prison for paying hush money to two women who said they had affairs with Mr. Trump. [Read the complete investigation into the Murdoch family.] The Murdoch empire has also boldly flexed its muscles in Australia, which was for many years Lachlan’s domain. In Australia, Lachlan expressed disdain for efforts to fight climate change and once rebuked the staff at one of his family’s newspapers, The Australian, for an editorial in support of same-sex marriage (He says through a representative that he is in favor of same-sex marriage). He also became close to the politician Tony Abbott, whose 2013 election as prime minister was given an assist by Murdoch newspapers. The Murdoch family changed Australian politics in 2016 when it took control of Sky News Australia and imported the Fox News model. They quickly introduced a slate of right-wing opinion shows that often focused on race, immigration and climate change. The programming became known as Sky After Dark. Last year, Mr. Turnbull and his staff accused Rupert and Lachlan Murdoch of using their media outlets to help foment the intraparty coup that thrust him from office in August. Mr. Turnbull, a moderate and longtime nemesis of his friend Mr. Abbott, was replaced by the right-wing nationalist Scott Morrison. The Murdochs have denied any role in Mr. Turnbull’s downfall. James Murdoch became disillusioned with the family empire in the years before Lachlan emerged as heir. He came to see Fox News, in particular, as a source of damaging ideological baggage that was hobbling the company’s efforts to innovate and grow. But Lachlan and Rupert did not share that belief. When Roger Ailes, the chief executive of Fox News, was ousted in 2016 amid a sexual harassment scandal, James wanted to revamp the network as a less partisan news outlet. He even floated the idea of hiring David Rhodes, a CBS executive. [Read the complete investigation into the Murdoch family.] His proposals went nowhere. Lachlan and Rupert opposed any change to what they saw as a winning formula and decided to stick with Fox’s incendiary programming. But James believed he had seen firsthand the damage that outlets like Fox News were doing to the company. He was the face of the Murdoch empire in Britain during a 2010 attempt to take over British Sky Broadcasting, in which the company owned a minority stake. That bid was blown to pieces by the 2011 phone hacking scandal, which forced James and his father to appear before Parliament to explain why their employees hacked into the voice mail of private citizens, including a dead 13-year-old girl. The scandal forced the Murdochs to abandon their bid for Sky. Five years later, facing pressure from digital rivals like Netflix and Amazon, the family made a second bid for Sky. James again acted as the empire’s public face. The bid again collapsed in a humiliating scandal. This time it centered on the culture of Fox News, where sexual misconduct allegations and millions of dollars in secret settlements led to the departure of Mr. Ailes, the star host Bill O’Reilly and Bill Shine, an executive who later went to work for President Trump. The behavior of Mr. Hannity, who used his show to spread conspiracy theories about the death of a Democratic National Committee staff member named Seth Rich, also fed concerns in Britain over the ethics of the company. After months of review by regulators — and scrambling inside 21st Century Fox — the British government issued a withering rebuke to the Murdochs last year. Not only did Britain block the company’s bid for Sky, it also ruled that no member of the Murdoch family could serve at Sky in any capacity, including on its board. At the time, James was serving as Sky’s chairman. It was a deep humiliation that convinced James once and for all that the family empire could not survive its own politics and culture. Lachlan instead saw it as validation of his belief that James, having failed to acquire Sky once, had been the wrong man for the job. Either way, by putting a much-needed revenue stream permanently outside the family’s grasp, it helped make the sale of 21st Century Fox inevitable. James and Lachlan were bitterly split over the prospect of selling 21st Century Fox to Disney. James pushed hard for the deal, which was completed last month, and Lachlan fiercely opposed it. Lachlan vociferously opposed the deal because it substantially shrank the company he returned from Australia to one day lead, people closer to his brother said. He felt so strongly that at one point he warned his father he would stop speaking to him if he continued to pursue the deal. Mr. Murdoch ignored that threat. (Lachlan denied making the threat.) [Read the complete investigation into the Murdoch family.] Lachlan’s opposition was also fueled in part by his suspicion that his brother’s judgment had been clouded by personal ambition, people closer to Lachlan said. He thought James was willing to sell 21st Century Fox for less than it was worth because he wanted the deal to include a job for himself at Disney. The deal transformed Disney into a media colossus, and a job there might have enabled James to position himself as a successor to its chief executive, Robert A. Iger. It would also let him escape the family company, its political baggage and the prospect of working for Lachlan. The two brothers clashed over everything. When James wanted to respond to President Trump’s 2017 travel ban with a statement reassuring their company’s Muslim employees, Lachlan strenuously resisted. When James bought their father’s Beverly Hills mansion for $30 million, Lachlan, who had also wanted the house, got so upset that their father gave him some of its antique furniture. James thought he had bought that, too. During the Disney negotiations, Mr. Murdoch grew concerned enough that James’s ambitions might interfere with the deal that he decided to assure Mr. Iger that it was not conditional upon Disney’s hiring his son. In the end, the sale went through, but James did not get a job. Today, the two brothers are barely on speaking terms. After the Disney deal, the commitment of Mr. Murdoch’s children to what remains of his media empire has been called into question. The Disney deal made all of them an enormous amount of money: Mr. Murdoch received $4 billion and his children received $2 billion each. As executives at 21st Century Fox, Lachlan and James got an additional $20 million in Disney stock plus golden parachutes worth $70 million each. [Read the complete investigation into the Murdoch family.] Mr. Murdoch had structured his companies, 21st Century Fox and News Corporation, so that the Murdoch Family Trust held a controlling interest in them. He held half of the trust’s eight votes, and the remaining four were divided up among his four adult children. They were barred from selling those shares to outsiders. James struck out on his own at the end of 2018. To make a more complete break with the company, he and his sisters Elisabeth and Prudence offered to sell their shares to Lachlan. Mr. Murdoch embraced the idea and urged Lachlan to buy out his siblings. Then father and son would own the company together. Bankers drew up documents to execute the sale, but Lachlan backed out; he said that it was not financially doable, though the decision raised questions about his commitment to the company. People close to James said they believed Lachlan was not sure he wanted to stay at the company after the Disney deal was complete. They said he might even want to go back to Australia. April 3, 2019 April 3, 2019 April 3, 2019 Supported by By The Associated Press A roundup of some of the most popular but completely untrue stories and visuals of the week. None of these is legit, even though they were shared widely on social media. The Associated Press checked these out. Here are the real facts: __ CLAIM: Rep. Ilhan Omar files $100 million lawsuit against Fox News host Jeanine Pirro. THE FACTS: Social media posts falsely assert that the Democratic congresswoman, a Muslim, is suing Pirro, who last month questioned on her show if Omar's wearing of a hijab is "antithetical to the U.S. Constitution." No such lawsuit has been filed in any federal court this year, according to public records. Additionally, no lawsuits listing Pirro as a defendant in New York, where Fox News is headquartered, or Omar's home state of Minnesota have been filed. "This is false," Jeremy Slevin, a spokesman for Omar, confirmed in an email to The Associated Press. Pirro's Saturday show "Justice with Judge Jeanine" was absent from Fox News programming for two weeks after her controversial comments about Omar's religious headwear. It has since returned. ___ CLAIM: Beto O'Rourke's biggest donor is liberal financier George Soros through the JStreetPAC. THE FACTS: Soros is not O'Rourke's largest donor, as suggested in Facebook posts that include photos of the men. Soros gave a maximum individual contribution of $2,700 to O'Rourke's U.S. Senate campaign in 2017, according to campaign finance records. The post wrongly suggests Soros donated $71,885 to the JStreetPAC, a political action committee that directed donors to O'Rourke's Senate campaign. The JStreet PAC, which supports a two-state solution in Israel, raised a combined $250,196 from individual donors for O'Rourke's Senate campaign. None of those donors was Soros. The PAC did not directly give any funds give to O'Rourke. Instead, JStreetPAC facilitated individual contributions to him by encouraging its followers to donate to the Democratic candidate on its website and at fundraisers. Soros donates to JStreet, a lobbying arm that is financially separate from JStreetPAC. Fundraising data for O'Rourke's presidential campaign will not be released until next week, but Soros has not donated to that campaign either through the JStreet PAC, said Ben Shnider, the vice president of political affairs strategy for JStreet. ___ CLAIM: Nike has just chosen to re-hire Michael Vick to represent their brand. THE FACTS: Nike has not re-signed Vick, a former pro-football star who pleaded guilty to dog fighting in 2007, despite reports circulating widely this week on social media. The claims relied on an article from 2011 when the sports shoe and apparel company re-signed Vick to an endorsement deal after he was released from prison. Josh Benedek, a Nike spokesman, told The Associated Press in an email that Nike does not have an existing contract with Vick. According to AP reports, Nike signed Vick in 2001 when he was a rookie in the NFL but ended his contract in 2007 after he was charged in relation to a dog-fighting ring. He served more than 18 months in prison and returned to football. In 2010, he was named AP Comeback Player of the Year after having the best all-around year of his career. ___ This is part of The Associated Press' ongoing effort to fact-check misinformation that is shared widely online. ___ Find all AP Fact Checks here: https://www.apnews.com/tag/APFactCheck ___

Supported by By The Associated Press A roundup of some of the most popular but completely untrue stories and visuals of the week. None of these is legit, even though they were shared widely on social media. The Associated Press checked these out. Here are the real facts: __ CLAIM: Rep. Ilhan Omar files $100 million lawsuit against Fox News host Jeanine Pirro. THE FACTS: Social media posts falsely assert that the Democratic congresswoman, a Muslim, is suing Pirro, who last month questioned on her show if Omar's wearing of a hijab is "antithetical to the U.S. Constitution." No such lawsuit has been filed in any federal court this year, according to public records. Additionally, no lawsuits listing Pirro as a defendant in New York, where Fox News is headquartered, or Omar's home state of Minnesota have been filed. "This is false," Jeremy Slevin, a spokesman for Omar, confirmed in an email to The Associated Press. Pirro's Saturday show "Justice with Judge Jeanine" was absent from Fox News programming for two weeks after her controversial comments about Omar's religious headwear. It has since returned. ___ CLAIM: Beto O'Rourke's biggest donor is liberal financier George Soros through the JStreetPAC. THE FACTS: Soros is not O'Rourke's largest donor, as suggested in Facebook posts that include photos of the men. Soros gave a maximum individual contribution of $2,700 to O'Rourke's U.S. Senate campaign in 2017, according to campaign finance records. The post wrongly suggests Soros donated $71,885 to the JStreetPAC, a political action committee that directed donors to O'Rourke's Senate campaign. The JStreet PAC, which supports a two-state solution in Israel, raised a combined $250,196 from individual donors for O'Rourke's Senate campaign. None of those donors was Soros. The PAC did not directly give any funds give to O'Rourke. Instead, JStreetPAC facilitated individual contributions to him by encouraging its followers to donate to the Democratic candidate on its website and at fundraisers. Soros donates to JStreet, a lobbying arm that is financially separate from JStreetPAC. Fundraising data for O'Rourke's presidential campaign will not be released until next week, but Soros has not donated to that campaign either through the JStreet PAC, said Ben Shnider, the vice president of political affairs strategy for JStreet. ___ CLAIM: Nike has just chosen to re-hire Michael Vick to represent their brand. THE FACTS: Nike has not re-signed Vick, a former pro-football star who pleaded guilty to dog fighting in 2007, despite reports circulating widely this week on social media. The claims relied on an article from 2011 when the sports shoe and apparel company re-signed Vick to an endorsement deal after he was released from prison. Josh Benedek, a Nike spokesman, told The Associated Press in an email that Nike does not have an existing contract with Vick. According to AP reports, Nike signed Vick in 2001 when he was a rookie in the NFL but ended his contract in 2007 after he was charged in relation to a dog-fighting ring. He served more than 18 months in prison and returned to football. In 2010, he was named AP Comeback Player of the Year after having the best all-around year of his career. ___ This is part of The Associated Press' ongoing effort to fact-check misinformation that is shared widely online. ___ Find all AP Fact Checks here: https://www.apnews.com/tag/APFactCheck ___Supported by By John Koblin The anchors and pundits vamped on Friday, filling the long hours of airtime with questions and speculation. And then — shortly after 5 p.m. — they finally had something headline worthy. That was when the major networks and cable news outlets reported that the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, had completed the investigation into Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election and had submitted his report to Attorney General William P. Barr. On CNN, Wolf Blitzer read aloud from a copy of Mr. Barr’s letter to Congress. On CBS, the anchor Jeff Glor broke into the network’s analysis of the N.C.A.A. men’s basketball tournament. On Fox News, the highest-rated cable news station, the anchor Juan Williams reported the big story during the daily episode of “The Five.” “We’ve just been told that the Mueller report has been delivered to the Justice Department,” he said at 5:03. Not long after those words were out of his mouth, the speculation started anew. The “Five” member Jesse Watters seemed to undercut the import of the breaking story, saying, “I honestly don’t think the rest of the country, outside the swamp and the Mueller partisans, cares about the Mueller report.” After mentioning a few things that, in his view, typical citizens actually do care about, like Netflix and college basketball, Mr. Watters added, “If there was real collusion, it would have leaked by now.” Another “Five” panelist, Dana Perino, offered commentary that was less charged. “Setting aside what it says or doesn’t say about how Russia tried to get involved, I think this report could actually be quite instructive about what we need to do to protect our elections going forward,” she said. On this day that so many had been waiting for, Mr. Mueller stayed out of the media glare. He had issued no public comments while conducting the investigation, and even when it was all wrapped up, he did not face the cameras. All the while, through the 22 months of his inquiry, he managed to drive countless hours of onscreen discussion without setting foot in a television studio. The news of his report followed a day of low-calorie cable fare, heavy on anticipation and light on facts, that teased the development the networks were counting on. “It’s Friday, but is it Mueller Friday?” the CNN anchor John King sked at the start of his noon-hour show, “Inside Politics.” Around the same time, the CNN reporter Laura Jarrett noted on Twitter that Justice Department reporters at the network had hunkered down: “Breaking — DOJ beat reporters ordering pizza,” she wrote. What seemed like a relatively slow news days decelerated further when Fox News took a moment to declare that the 94-year-old Jimmy Carter had become the oldest former living United States president in history, surpassing the first President George Bush. Then, at last, came the news that the special counsel’s work was done. After all the buildup, the anchors had one new development to gnaw on: the fact that, according to a Justice Department official, the Mueller report recommended no new charges. (Before the report was submitted, the special counsel had filed 199 charges against 34 people and three companies.) On NBC, after the main news had hit, the veteran Justice Department reporter Pete Williams reported that “there will be no more indictments from the special counsel.” Others seemed reluctant to go there, at least at first. “Nobody knows anything,” MSNBC’s Joe Scarborough cautioned on Twitter. And the Fox News anchor Bret Baier said, “We don’t have the meat of what’s in this report at this hour.” Appearing as a guest on Mr. Baier’s show, the Fox News host Chris Wallace said: “The fact that that investigation is over is a big milestone, even if we don’t know what the final conclusion of the special counsel was. We will have to wait and see.” He continued: “And I do think that if — and I repeat if — it should be the president is cleared of the basic fundamental charges of the special counsel, whether it was, one, collusion or, two, obstruction of justice, that is a major victory for the president.” And before you knew it, television was populated, as it had been earlier in the day, with talking heads spinning out various possibilities that could fill the news maw in the days to come. 

Supported by By John Koblin The anchors and pundits vamped on Friday, filling the long hours of airtime with questions and speculation. And then — shortly after 5 p.m. — they finally had something headline worthy. That was when the major networks and cable news outlets reported that the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, had completed the investigation into Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election and had submitted his report to Attorney General William P. Barr. On CNN, Wolf Blitzer read aloud from a copy of Mr. Barr’s letter to Congress. On CBS, the anchor Jeff Glor broke into the network’s analysis of the N.C.A.A. men’s basketball tournament. On Fox News, the highest-rated cable news station, the anchor Juan Williams reported the big story during the daily episode of “The Five.” “We’ve just been told that the Mueller report has been delivered to the Justice Department,” he said at 5:03. Not long after those words were out of his mouth, the speculation started anew. The “Five” member Jesse Watters seemed to undercut the import of the breaking story, saying, “I honestly don’t think the rest of the country, outside the swamp and the Mueller partisans, cares about the Mueller report.” After mentioning a few things that, in his view, typical citizens actually do care about, like Netflix and college basketball, Mr. Watters added, “If there was real collusion, it would have leaked by now.” Another “Five” panelist, Dana Perino, offered commentary that was less charged. “Setting aside what it says or doesn’t say about how Russia tried to get involved, I think this report could actually be quite instructive about what we need to do to protect our elections going forward,” she said. On this day that so many had been waiting for, Mr. Mueller stayed out of the media glare. He had issued no public comments while conducting the investigation, and even when it was all wrapped up, he did not face the cameras. All the while, through the 22 months of his inquiry, he managed to drive countless hours of onscreen discussion without setting foot in a television studio. The news of his report followed a day of low-calorie cable fare, heavy on anticipation and light on facts, that teased the development the networks were counting on. “It’s Friday, but is it Mueller Friday?” the CNN anchor John King sked at the start of his noon-hour show, “Inside Politics.” Around the same time, the CNN reporter Laura Jarrett noted on Twitter that Justice Department reporters at the network had hunkered down: “Breaking — DOJ beat reporters ordering pizza,” she wrote. What seemed like a relatively slow news days decelerated further when Fox News took a moment to declare that the 94-year-old Jimmy Carter had become the oldest former living United States president in history, surpassing the first President George Bush. Then, at last, came the news that the special counsel’s work was done. After all the buildup, the anchors had one new development to gnaw on: the fact that, according to a Justice Department official, the Mueller report recommended no new charges. (Before the report was submitted, the special counsel had filed 199 charges against 34 people and three companies.) On NBC, after the main news had hit, the veteran Justice Department reporter Pete Williams reported that “there will be no more indictments from the special counsel.” Others seemed reluctant to go there, at least at first. “Nobody knows anything,” MSNBC’s Joe Scarborough cautioned on Twitter. And the Fox News anchor Bret Baier said, “We don’t have the meat of what’s in this report at this hour.” Appearing as a guest on Mr. Baier’s show, the Fox News host Chris Wallace said: “The fact that that investigation is over is a big milestone, even if we don’t know what the final conclusion of the special counsel was. We will have to wait and see.” He continued: “And I do think that if — and I repeat if — it should be the president is cleared of the basic fundamental charges of the special counsel, whether it was, one, collusion or, two, obstruction of justice, that is a major victory for the president.” And before you knew it, television was populated, as it had been earlier in the day, with talking heads spinning out various possibilities that could fill the news maw in the days to come. Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — Guest lineups for the Sunday TV news shows: ABC's "This Week" — Rep. Adam Schiff, D-Calif.; White House counselor Kellyanne Conway. __ NBC's "Meet the Press" — Rep. Jerrold Nadler, D-N.Y.; Rudy Giuliani, a lawyer for President Donald Trump. ___ CBS' "Face the Nation" — Sen. Mike Lee, R-Utah; Rep. Elijah Cummings, D-Md. ___ CNN's "State of the Union" — Giuliani; Rep. Tim Ryan, D-Ohio, a 2020 Democratic presidential candidate. ___ "Fox News Sunday" — Schiff; Giuliani.

Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — Guest lineups for the Sunday TV news shows: ABC's "This Week" — Rep. Adam Schiff, D-Calif.; White House counselor Kellyanne Conway. __ NBC's "Meet the Press" — Rep. Jerrold Nadler, D-N.Y.; Rudy Giuliani, a lawyer for President Donald Trump. ___ CBS' "Face the Nation" — Sen. Mike Lee, R-Utah; Rep. Elijah Cummings, D-Md. ___ CNN's "State of the Union" — Giuliani; Rep. Tim Ryan, D-Ohio, a 2020 Democratic presidential candidate. ___ "Fox News Sunday" — Schiff; Giuliani.Supported by Issue 4.7.2019  The Murdoch empire has profited more than any single media company from the wave of right-wing populism spreading across the world. Our cover story this week.  Jake Silverstein, editor in chief: “American readers are acutely aware of the influence Rupert Murdoch wields, via Fox News, in politics in the United States. The goal with this cover was to make those readers understand how pervasive his influence is worldwide.”  Read the cover story, “How Rupert Murdoch’s Empire of Influence Remade the World.” Photo illustration by Craig Cutler. Source photograph by Rainer Hosch. 

Supported by Issue 4.7.2019  The Murdoch empire has profited more than any single media company from the wave of right-wing populism spreading across the world. Our cover story this week.  Jake Silverstein, editor in chief: “American readers are acutely aware of the influence Rupert Murdoch wields, via Fox News, in politics in the United States. The goal with this cover was to make those readers understand how pervasive his influence is worldwide.”  Read the cover story, “How Rupert Murdoch’s Empire of Influence Remade the World.” Photo illustration by Craig Cutler. Source photograph by Rainer Hosch. Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — One of President Donald Trump's prospective Federal Reserve nominees, businessman Herman Cain, said on Thursday he was not withdrawing from consideration for the post, although his chances of winning the Senate's needed approval appear dim. In an interview with Fox News Channel, Cain said it was not clear that the minds of four Republican senators who have voiced concerns about his nomination cannot be changed. If their opposition holds, and if all Senate Democrats and the two independents who caucus with them also oppose Cain, his nomination would fail to win the majority backing needed in the Senate for Cain's confirmation.   (Reporting by Mohammad Zargham; Editing by Tim Ahmann)

Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — One of President Donald Trump's prospective Federal Reserve nominees, businessman Herman Cain, said on Thursday he was not withdrawing from consideration for the post, although his chances of winning the Senate's needed approval appear dim. In an interview with Fox News Channel, Cain said it was not clear that the minds of four Republican senators who have voiced concerns about his nomination cannot be changed. If their opposition holds, and if all Senate Democrats and the two independents who caucus with them also oppose Cain, his nomination would fail to win the majority backing needed in the Senate for Cain's confirmation.   (Reporting by Mohammad Zargham; Editing by Tim Ahmann)Supported by By Daniel Victor Less than a month after suing Twitter for allowing its users to insult him, Representative Devin Nunes, a Republican from California, said he was suing the McClatchy Company, a newspaper chain, over what he called “character assassination.” The defamation lawsuit seeks $150 million and the deletion of an article in The Fresno Bee, a McClatchy newspaper, about Alpha Omega Winery, a company that Mr. Nunes partly owns. The article, published last May, described a lawsuit by a server who was aboard a San Francisco Bay cruise in 2015 that was attended by some of the winery’s top investors and that she said had included drugs and prostitution. The article said it was “unclear” whether Mr. Nunes “was aware of the lawsuit or was affiliated with the fund-raiser” at which the cruise was auctioned. The lawsuit filed by Mr. Nunes, a loyal ally of President Trump and a former chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, says that he was not involved in the incident on the yacht and that he considers the article part of a politically motivated scheme to “destroy his reputation” and derail the committee’s investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election. Mr. Nunes has long sought to discredit The Bee, which covers his congressional district. His campaign against the paper has included television ads and a 40-page mailer sent to voters last year. “This is a case about character assassination and a public company that weaponized its powerful pen and used it as a terrible sword,” his lawsuit says. Mr. Nunes did not respond to The Bee’s questions during the reporting of its article, and the newspaper wrote on Monday that he had never asked for a correction. “With the limited opportunity we have had to review this claim, it is wholly without merit and we stand behind the strong reporting of The Fresno Bee,” said Jeanne Segal, a McClatchy spokeswoman. McClatchy is one of the nation’s largest newspaper chains, owning dozens of publications including The Miami Herald, The Kansas City Star, The Fort Worth Star-Telegram and The Charlotte Observer. The lawsuit also names as a defendant Liz Mair, a Republican strategist who was also named in the Twitter lawsuit. Mr. Nunes accuses Ms. Mair of offering “egregious sound bites to McClatchy,” referring to critical comments she made in a separate article. She tweeted a link to the Fresno Bee article about the cruise, suggesting that she was working in a “conspiracy” with McClatchy, the lawsuit claims. On Twitter, Ms. Mair responded by asking supporters to donate to her legal defense fund. The lawsuit did not appear in online court records in Virginia as of early Tuesday, but Mr. Nunes said in a Fox News appearance on Monday that he had filed it. A copy of the lawsuit was posted by Fox News. “If you’re out there and you lied and you defamed, we’re going to come after you,” Mr. Nunes said to Sean Hannity, a Fox News host. Lots of politicians seethe about the news media, but not many channel their frustrations through lawsuits. That is partly because the standard for a public figure to prove defamation against a news outlet is high: It is not enough to simply show that an error was made. Public figures must show that the publication operated with a “reckless disregard” for the truth and with “actual malice,” and there are few examples of successful suits by politicians. Press advocates consider those high standards essential to the ability to report on public figures without facing constant lawsuits, which can be costly for media companies to defend themselves against. This is the second defamation lawsuit in a month for Mr. Nunes, whose $250 million lawsuit against Twitter, Ms. Mair and two anonymous accounts portrayed critical tweets directed at him as evidence of an effort by the tech giant to silence conservative voices. Twitter has repeatedly denied having any political bias or agenda. The suit against Twitter included a long list of insults lobbed by a parody account, @DevinCow, whose visibility skyrocketed after news coverage of the lawsuit. The account now has more than 600,000 followers, up from about 1,200. Mackenzie Mays, the author of the Bee article, who is now a reporter at Politico, said little in response to the suit on Twitter, but she reposted an image in support of journalists that has circulated since last year.  

Supported by By Daniel Victor Less than a month after suing Twitter for allowing its users to insult him, Representative Devin Nunes, a Republican from California, said he was suing the McClatchy Company, a newspaper chain, over what he called “character assassination.” The defamation lawsuit seeks $150 million and the deletion of an article in The Fresno Bee, a McClatchy newspaper, about Alpha Omega Winery, a company that Mr. Nunes partly owns. The article, published last May, described a lawsuit by a server who was aboard a San Francisco Bay cruise in 2015 that was attended by some of the winery’s top investors and that she said had included drugs and prostitution. The article said it was “unclear” whether Mr. Nunes “was aware of the lawsuit or was affiliated with the fund-raiser” at which the cruise was auctioned. The lawsuit filed by Mr. Nunes, a loyal ally of President Trump and a former chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, says that he was not involved in the incident on the yacht and that he considers the article part of a politically motivated scheme to “destroy his reputation” and derail the committee’s investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election. Mr. Nunes has long sought to discredit The Bee, which covers his congressional district. His campaign against the paper has included television ads and a 40-page mailer sent to voters last year. “This is a case about character assassination and a public company that weaponized its powerful pen and used it as a terrible sword,” his lawsuit says. Mr. Nunes did not respond to The Bee’s questions during the reporting of its article, and the newspaper wrote on Monday that he had never asked for a correction. “With the limited opportunity we have had to review this claim, it is wholly without merit and we stand behind the strong reporting of The Fresno Bee,” said Jeanne Segal, a McClatchy spokeswoman. McClatchy is one of the nation’s largest newspaper chains, owning dozens of publications including The Miami Herald, The Kansas City Star, The Fort Worth Star-Telegram and The Charlotte Observer. The lawsuit also names as a defendant Liz Mair, a Republican strategist who was also named in the Twitter lawsuit. Mr. Nunes accuses Ms. Mair of offering “egregious sound bites to McClatchy,” referring to critical comments she made in a separate article. She tweeted a link to the Fresno Bee article about the cruise, suggesting that she was working in a “conspiracy” with McClatchy, the lawsuit claims. On Twitter, Ms. Mair responded by asking supporters to donate to her legal defense fund. The lawsuit did not appear in online court records in Virginia as of early Tuesday, but Mr. Nunes said in a Fox News appearance on Monday that he had filed it. A copy of the lawsuit was posted by Fox News. “If you’re out there and you lied and you defamed, we’re going to come after you,” Mr. Nunes said to Sean Hannity, a Fox News host. Lots of politicians seethe about the news media, but not many channel their frustrations through lawsuits. That is partly because the standard for a public figure to prove defamation against a news outlet is high: It is not enough to simply show that an error was made. Public figures must show that the publication operated with a “reckless disregard” for the truth and with “actual malice,” and there are few examples of successful suits by politicians. Press advocates consider those high standards essential to the ability to report on public figures without facing constant lawsuits, which can be costly for media companies to defend themselves against. This is the second defamation lawsuit in a month for Mr. Nunes, whose $250 million lawsuit against Twitter, Ms. Mair and two anonymous accounts portrayed critical tweets directed at him as evidence of an effort by the tech giant to silence conservative voices. Twitter has repeatedly denied having any political bias or agenda. The suit against Twitter included a long list of insults lobbed by a parody account, @DevinCow, whose visibility skyrocketed after news coverage of the lawsuit. The account now has more than 600,000 followers, up from about 1,200. Mackenzie Mays, the author of the Bee article, who is now a reporter at Politico, said little in response to the suit on Twitter, but she reposted an image in support of journalists that has circulated since last year.  Supported by By Dave Itzkoff While the rest of the nation waits to learn if it will ever get to read the final report of the special counsel Robert S. Mueller III, and debates whether a recent letter written by Attorney General William P. Barr provided an adequate overview of the two-year investigation and its results, “Saturday Night Live” is here to tell you what it all means. In its opening sketch this weekend, Robert De Niro returned to “S.N.L.” in his recurring role as Mueller, composing his report, which, section by section, was then summarized by Barr (Aidy Bryant), which in turn was distilled into a tweet posted by President Trump. Each performer offered an introduction at the start of the sketch. De Niro said, “Dear Attorney General Barr, officials from the Justice Department and esteemed members of Congress.” Bryant said, “Hey, guys, William Barr here. You might want to sit down for this one.” And Baldwin said, “Guess what? Guess what? Guess what? Daddy is about to freak.” The sketch continued in this round-robin fashion, setting up exchanges like these: De Niro: “I am submitting these 380 pages.” Bryant: “I am writing almost four pages.” Baldwin: “I am reading zero pages, but Sean Hannity has read it and he was so excited that he texted me an eggplant.” De Niro: “On the charge of obstruction of justice, we have not drawn a definitive conclusion.” Bryant: “But I have, and my conclusion is: Trump’s clean as a whistle.” Baldwin: “Free at last, free at last.” De Niro: “As for conspiracy or collusion, there were several questionable incidences involving the president’s team, but we cannot prove a criminal connection.” Bryant: “No collusion, no diggity, no doubt.” Baldwin: [blows an air horn] De Niro: However, we have indicted 34 individuals in connection with this probe” Bryant: “Most of them, very good people.” Baldwin: “The pardons are already in the mail.” De Niro: “In conclusion it is my hope that this report will be made public, with a few redactions.” Bryant: “Hella redactions.” Baldwin: “We’re going to black out everything except the words ‘no’ and ‘collusion.’” “S.N.L.” returned to the subject of the Mueller report in another sketch later in the evening, this time from the perspective of the Russian president Vladimir Putin (Beck Bennett) as he sheepishly acknowledges to his underlings at the Kremlin that Trump is not one of his agents. Pleading his case to the North Korean leader Kim Jong-un (Bowen Yang, an “S.N.L.” staff writer) and an interpreter (played by guest host Sandra Oh), Bennett said, “We don’t know everything in the report yet. Plus, Mueller handed off a lot of stuff to the Southern District of New York. That’s where the real action is.” Interpreting for Yang, Oh replied to him, “Glorious Leader says you sound like Rachel Maddow right now.” At the “Weekend Update” desk, the anchors Colin Jost and Michael Che continued to riff on the fallout from Barr’s letter. JOST: Well, this week made me feel insane. All the people I was told were bad guys all got away with it. Donald Trump, Jussie Smollett and worst of all, Duke. The big story, of course, was that white O.J. was not indicted for collusion. And that Robert Mueller did not reach a conclusion about whether Trump obstructed justice. Or, as it was reported on Fox News, [plays a montage of smiling Fox News personalities, set to Kool & the Gang’s “Celebration”]. I haven’t seen Fox News anchors smile like that since I.C.E. agents pulled into a Home Depot parking lot. So, Trump found out that he’s not getting indicted in the Russia investigation, and I’m sure that he was grateful that it’s all over, and he’s completely ready to move on. [Plays video of Trump saying, “All of the Democrat politicians, they have to be held accountable.”] Wow. It’s like if Scrooge woke up on Christmas morning, discovered he had a second chance at life, then found Tiny Tim and took a crowbar to his good leg. CHE: Man, I can’t believe I actually thought for a second that the F.B.I. was going to lock up the sitting President of the United States, simply because he’s guilty. I think it’s ’cause I’m around white people all the time. And white people have this thing I call toxic optimism. It’s the kind of optimism that makes you believe you can get into college because your mother’s Aunt Becky. I’m sure Aunt Viv’s kids don’t have that much optimism. Black people just aren’t that optimistic. I said the phrase “checks and balances” to a black lady and she rolled her eyes at me for so long, I thought she fell asleep. Cecily Strong returned to the “Weekend Update” desk as the Fox News host Jeanine Pirro, celebrating her return to television after she was rebuked by her own network and temporarily taken off the air after she questioned the loyalty of a Muslim lawmaker. As Strong said, “This Mueller report completely exonerated the president and therefore everybody on the Trump Train. So somebody at Fox News said my name into a bathroom mirror three times and here I am.” She went on to thank her “superfans,” describing them as “mean, horny men laying in hospital beds and white prison gangs who control the remote on Saturday.” When Jost told her she didn’t have to shout, Strong replied, “Mama’s got one volume and it’s three Chardonnays deep at a crowded party.” It seemed inevitable that this week’s “S.N.L.” would have a sendup of “Us,” the hit horror movie written and directed by Jordan Peele. But it did so in a surprisingly clever fashion: This filmed commercial seemed to be a parody of a Discover credit card campaign, with a woman (Ego Nwodim) informing her spouse (Kenan Thompson) that some weird charges have recently turned up on their bill and she’s calling the company. “With Discover Card, you get to talk to a real person who’s just like you,” she says cheerfully. But the operator she reaches is her doppelgänger (also played by Nwodim) — an estimable recreation of the evil duplicate played by Lupita Nyong’o in “Us.” Nwodim tells the operator that someone used her credit card to buy a bunch of red jumpsuits, motorcycle gloves, hundreds of rabbits and giant scissors. In a halting voice, the evil doppelgänger replies, “When you go on vacation … I sit in … a cave.” Only a few days after prosecutors made the controversial decision to drop all charges against Jussie Smollett, the “Empire” co-star who had been accused of staging a hate crime, “S.N.L.” presented a sketch about the actor that nonetheless made no mention of these recent developments. In the sketch, Chris Redd plays Smollett, arriving late to a meeting with his manager (Sandra Oh), the “Empire” co-creator Lee Daniels (Kenan Thompson) and other executives (Kate McKinnon, Ego Nwodim and Mikey Day) who are trying to have him fired from the show. But Redd insists he has recently been the victim of another mysterious crime. Reaching into a bag, he says, “Look, guys! The killer — he left me a bunch of clues!” McKinnon asks, “What killer?” Day adds, “You’re still alive, Jussie.” You decide if the sketch was too soon or too little, too late.

Supported by By Dave Itzkoff While the rest of the nation waits to learn if it will ever get to read the final report of the special counsel Robert S. Mueller III, and debates whether a recent letter written by Attorney General William P. Barr provided an adequate overview of the two-year investigation and its results, “Saturday Night Live” is here to tell you what it all means. In its opening sketch this weekend, Robert De Niro returned to “S.N.L.” in his recurring role as Mueller, composing his report, which, section by section, was then summarized by Barr (Aidy Bryant), which in turn was distilled into a tweet posted by President Trump. Each performer offered an introduction at the start of the sketch. De Niro said, “Dear Attorney General Barr, officials from the Justice Department and esteemed members of Congress.” Bryant said, “Hey, guys, William Barr here. You might want to sit down for this one.” And Baldwin said, “Guess what? Guess what? Guess what? Daddy is about to freak.” The sketch continued in this round-robin fashion, setting up exchanges like these: De Niro: “I am submitting these 380 pages.” Bryant: “I am writing almost four pages.” Baldwin: “I am reading zero pages, but Sean Hannity has read it and he was so excited that he texted me an eggplant.” De Niro: “On the charge of obstruction of justice, we have not drawn a definitive conclusion.” Bryant: “But I have, and my conclusion is: Trump’s clean as a whistle.” Baldwin: “Free at last, free at last.” De Niro: “As for conspiracy or collusion, there were several questionable incidences involving the president’s team, but we cannot prove a criminal connection.” Bryant: “No collusion, no diggity, no doubt.” Baldwin: [blows an air horn] De Niro: However, we have indicted 34 individuals in connection with this probe” Bryant: “Most of them, very good people.” Baldwin: “The pardons are already in the mail.” De Niro: “In conclusion it is my hope that this report will be made public, with a few redactions.” Bryant: “Hella redactions.” Baldwin: “We’re going to black out everything except the words ‘no’ and ‘collusion.’” “S.N.L.” returned to the subject of the Mueller report in another sketch later in the evening, this time from the perspective of the Russian president Vladimir Putin (Beck Bennett) as he sheepishly acknowledges to his underlings at the Kremlin that Trump is not one of his agents. Pleading his case to the North Korean leader Kim Jong-un (Bowen Yang, an “S.N.L.” staff writer) and an interpreter (played by guest host Sandra Oh), Bennett said, “We don’t know everything in the report yet. Plus, Mueller handed off a lot of stuff to the Southern District of New York. That’s where the real action is.” Interpreting for Yang, Oh replied to him, “Glorious Leader says you sound like Rachel Maddow right now.” At the “Weekend Update” desk, the anchors Colin Jost and Michael Che continued to riff on the fallout from Barr’s letter. JOST: Well, this week made me feel insane. All the people I was told were bad guys all got away with it. Donald Trump, Jussie Smollett and worst of all, Duke. The big story, of course, was that white O.J. was not indicted for collusion. And that Robert Mueller did not reach a conclusion about whether Trump obstructed justice. Or, as it was reported on Fox News, [plays a montage of smiling Fox News personalities, set to Kool & the Gang’s “Celebration”]. I haven’t seen Fox News anchors smile like that since I.C.E. agents pulled into a Home Depot parking lot. So, Trump found out that he’s not getting indicted in the Russia investigation, and I’m sure that he was grateful that it’s all over, and he’s completely ready to move on. [Plays video of Trump saying, “All of the Democrat politicians, they have to be held accountable.”] Wow. It’s like if Scrooge woke up on Christmas morning, discovered he had a second chance at life, then found Tiny Tim and took a crowbar to his good leg. CHE: Man, I can’t believe I actually thought for a second that the F.B.I. was going to lock up the sitting President of the United States, simply because he’s guilty. I think it’s ’cause I’m around white people all the time. And white people have this thing I call toxic optimism. It’s the kind of optimism that makes you believe you can get into college because your mother’s Aunt Becky. I’m sure Aunt Viv’s kids don’t have that much optimism. Black people just aren’t that optimistic. I said the phrase “checks and balances” to a black lady and she rolled her eyes at me for so long, I thought she fell asleep. Cecily Strong returned to the “Weekend Update” desk as the Fox News host Jeanine Pirro, celebrating her return to television after she was rebuked by her own network and temporarily taken off the air after she questioned the loyalty of a Muslim lawmaker. As Strong said, “This Mueller report completely exonerated the president and therefore everybody on the Trump Train. So somebody at Fox News said my name into a bathroom mirror three times and here I am.” She went on to thank her “superfans,” describing them as “mean, horny men laying in hospital beds and white prison gangs who control the remote on Saturday.” When Jost told her she didn’t have to shout, Strong replied, “Mama’s got one volume and it’s three Chardonnays deep at a crowded party.” It seemed inevitable that this week’s “S.N.L.” would have a sendup of “Us,” the hit horror movie written and directed by Jordan Peele. But it did so in a surprisingly clever fashion: This filmed commercial seemed to be a parody of a Discover credit card campaign, with a woman (Ego Nwodim) informing her spouse (Kenan Thompson) that some weird charges have recently turned up on their bill and she’s calling the company. “With Discover Card, you get to talk to a real person who’s just like you,” she says cheerfully. But the operator she reaches is her doppelgänger (also played by Nwodim) — an estimable recreation of the evil duplicate played by Lupita Nyong’o in “Us.” Nwodim tells the operator that someone used her credit card to buy a bunch of red jumpsuits, motorcycle gloves, hundreds of rabbits and giant scissors. In a halting voice, the evil doppelgänger replies, “When you go on vacation … I sit in … a cave.” Only a few days after prosecutors made the controversial decision to drop all charges against Jussie Smollett, the “Empire” co-star who had been accused of staging a hate crime, “S.N.L.” presented a sketch about the actor that nonetheless made no mention of these recent developments. In the sketch, Chris Redd plays Smollett, arriving late to a meeting with his manager (Sandra Oh), the “Empire” co-creator Lee Daniels (Kenan Thompson) and other executives (Kate McKinnon, Ego Nwodim and Mikey Day) who are trying to have him fired from the show. But Redd insists he has recently been the victim of another mysterious crime. Reaching into a bag, he says, “Look, guys! The killer — he left me a bunch of clues!” McKinnon asks, “What killer?” Day adds, “You’re still alive, Jussie.” You decide if the sketch was too soon or too little, too late.Supported by By The Associated Press NEW YORK — The release of a dense, 400-page report on the results of a two-year investigation is an event uniquely unsuited to today's minute-by-minute news cycles. That was the challenge faced Thursday by journalists who finally got to see special counsel Robert Mueller's findings on the Russia investigation, after another attempt by President Donald Trump and his administration to give their version of what it said. Reporters scrambled through stacks of paper with blacked-out portions to glean highlights. Cameras peeked over shoulders to display Mueller's words on computer screens. Anchors continually asked colleagues, "What have you found?" or "What jumps out at you?" "We're all going to law school today," NBC's Savannah Guthrie said. Mueller's report was released shortly after 11 a.m., following Attorney General William Barr's more detailed verbal summary of the written summary he delivered on March 24. That succeeded in setting a Trump-friendly narrative of the investigation. Barr repeated Thursday that Mueller had found no collusion between the Trump campaign and Russians trying to influence the 2016 election, an assessment broadcast live on broadcast and cable news networks. In a short news conference that followed, Barr three times batted away questions about whether he was doing Trump's bidding in summarizing Mueller's words before the public could see them. "I was struck with how much he put his own credibility on the line, it seemed, in order to spin for the press and give the president basically what amounts to two hours of better press," ABC News' Matthew Dowd said. NBC analyst Chuck Rosenberg said Barr "went too far into the tank" for Trump. "Book reviews are interesting," he said. "But the book is always more telling." For his part, Trump followed with a "Game of Thrones"-inspired tweet proclaiming "Game Over." Once the report was released, the networks largely ignored — or showed in delayed, truncated form — a Trump White House appearance where he commented on the findings. Journalists were warned in advance to slow down and take time to digest the news before talking about it or interviewing opinionated guests. But that ignores a hyper-competitive world with airtime and web pages to fill and consumers who are never more than a click away from rivals. A smiling Rudolph Giuliani, Trump's lawyer, was on Fox News Channel within a half hour of the report's release. Certain highlights were emphasized, like the president's profanity when he learned of Mueller's appointment, and former White House counsel Don McGahn's refusal to order Mueller's firing. The report's sheer length made varied conclusions inevitable, even within the same news organization. "The way Barr described what he called the top line or bottom line conclusions of the Mueller investigation tracks very closely with what I've been able to read," NBC News' Pete Williams said. "His summary of what the investigation says is pretty much on point." Later, Brian Williams asked an MSNBC guest, former U.S. Attorney Joyce Vance, "What report do you think the attorney general was describing this morning?" "Not the one that I'm reading now," she replied. Television networks used chyrons to flag findings: "Trump to Sessions Upon Recusal: 'You Were Supposed to Protect Me'" on MSNBC. "Trump Engaged in Effort to Encourage Witnesses not to Cooperate with Investigation" on Fox News. On YouTube, Vice News showed a reporter, sitting at a table with a framed picture of Mueller under a potted plant, reading the document. The Washington Post led its first post-release story by describing how Mueller's investigators "struggled with both the legal implications of investigating President Trump for possible obstruction of justice, and the motives behind a range of his most alarming actions, from seeking the ouster of former officials to ordering a memo that would clear his name." On its web site, The New York Times kept up a running series of brief dispatches from individual reporters on highlights of the report. The Associated Press did both, sending out individual alerts of report findings and leading its first post-release story with the news of McGahn's refusal to get Mueller fired. Fox News anchor Bret Baier mused about what point Mueller had concluded that there was no collusion with Russia. If that news had gotten out earlier, would it have changed the results of the 2018 midterm elections? "You've had for 23 months the sword of Damocles hanging over the Trump campaign and the Trump administration that is eating away at the body politic," he said. Several reporters noted how the report outlined the president's ease at lying or directing his underlings not to tell the truth. "Stories that we were told were not true, Robert Mueller said were true," said ABC's Cecilia Vega. "It's right here, in black and white." CNN's Jake Tapper noted that "it's not a crime to the lie to the public. It's not a crime to lie to reporters." "Which is lucky for the White House," Anderson Cooper replied, "because they do it all the time."

Supported by By The Associated Press NEW YORK — The release of a dense, 400-page report on the results of a two-year investigation is an event uniquely unsuited to today's minute-by-minute news cycles. That was the challenge faced Thursday by journalists who finally got to see special counsel Robert Mueller's findings on the Russia investigation, after another attempt by President Donald Trump and his administration to give their version of what it said. Reporters scrambled through stacks of paper with blacked-out portions to glean highlights. Cameras peeked over shoulders to display Mueller's words on computer screens. Anchors continually asked colleagues, "What have you found?" or "What jumps out at you?" "We're all going to law school today," NBC's Savannah Guthrie said. Mueller's report was released shortly after 11 a.m., following Attorney General William Barr's more detailed verbal summary of the written summary he delivered on March 24. That succeeded in setting a Trump-friendly narrative of the investigation. Barr repeated Thursday that Mueller had found no collusion between the Trump campaign and Russians trying to influence the 2016 election, an assessment broadcast live on broadcast and cable news networks. In a short news conference that followed, Barr three times batted away questions about whether he was doing Trump's bidding in summarizing Mueller's words before the public could see them. "I was struck with how much he put his own credibility on the line, it seemed, in order to spin for the press and give the president basically what amounts to two hours of better press," ABC News' Matthew Dowd said. NBC analyst Chuck Rosenberg said Barr "went too far into the tank" for Trump. "Book reviews are interesting," he said. "But the book is always more telling." For his part, Trump followed with a "Game of Thrones"-inspired tweet proclaiming "Game Over." Once the report was released, the networks largely ignored — or showed in delayed, truncated form — a Trump White House appearance where he commented on the findings. Journalists were warned in advance to slow down and take time to digest the news before talking about it or interviewing opinionated guests. But that ignores a hyper-competitive world with airtime and web pages to fill and consumers who are never more than a click away from rivals. A smiling Rudolph Giuliani, Trump's lawyer, was on Fox News Channel within a half hour of the report's release. Certain highlights were emphasized, like the president's profanity when he learned of Mueller's appointment, and former White House counsel Don McGahn's refusal to order Mueller's firing. The report's sheer length made varied conclusions inevitable, even within the same news organization. "The way Barr described what he called the top line or bottom line conclusions of the Mueller investigation tracks very closely with what I've been able to read," NBC News' Pete Williams said. "His summary of what the investigation says is pretty much on point." Later, Brian Williams asked an MSNBC guest, former U.S. Attorney Joyce Vance, "What report do you think the attorney general was describing this morning?" "Not the one that I'm reading now," she replied. Television networks used chyrons to flag findings: "Trump to Sessions Upon Recusal: 'You Were Supposed to Protect Me'" on MSNBC. "Trump Engaged in Effort to Encourage Witnesses not to Cooperate with Investigation" on Fox News. On YouTube, Vice News showed a reporter, sitting at a table with a framed picture of Mueller under a potted plant, reading the document. The Washington Post led its first post-release story by describing how Mueller's investigators "struggled with both the legal implications of investigating President Trump for possible obstruction of justice, and the motives behind a range of his most alarming actions, from seeking the ouster of former officials to ordering a memo that would clear his name." On its web site, The New York Times kept up a running series of brief dispatches from individual reporters on highlights of the report. The Associated Press did both, sending out individual alerts of report findings and leading its first post-release story with the news of McGahn's refusal to get Mueller fired. Fox News anchor Bret Baier mused about what point Mueller had concluded that there was no collusion with Russia. If that news had gotten out earlier, would it have changed the results of the 2018 midterm elections? "You've had for 23 months the sword of Damocles hanging over the Trump campaign and the Trump administration that is eating away at the body politic," he said. Several reporters noted how the report outlined the president's ease at lying or directing his underlings not to tell the truth. "Stories that we were told were not true, Robert Mueller said were true," said ABC's Cecilia Vega. "It's right here, in black and white." CNN's Jake Tapper noted that "it's not a crime to the lie to the public. It's not a crime to lie to reporters." "Which is lucky for the White House," Anderson Cooper replied, "because they do it all the time."Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — Guest lineups for the Sunday TV news shows: ABC's "This Week" — Sarah Sanders, White House press secretary; Rep. Bennie Thompson, D-Miss., Homeland Security Committee chairman; Jennifer Robinson, attorney for Julian Assange. __ NBC's "Meet the Press" — Kellyanne Conway, counselor to the president; Gov. Jay Inslee, D-Wash., 2020 Democratic presidential candidate. ___ CBS' "Face the Nation" — Will be pre-empted by the early start of the Masters tournament coverage. ___ CNN's "State of the Union" — Rep. Jerrold Nadler, D-N.Y., chairman of the House Judiciary Committee; Rep. Eric Swalwell, D-Calif., 2020 Democratic presidential candidate; Sen. Rick Scott, R-Fla. ___ "Fox News Sunday" — Sanders; Sen. Ben Cardin, D-Md.

Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — Guest lineups for the Sunday TV news shows: ABC's "This Week" — Sarah Sanders, White House press secretary; Rep. Bennie Thompson, D-Miss., Homeland Security Committee chairman; Jennifer Robinson, attorney for Julian Assange. __ NBC's "Meet the Press" — Kellyanne Conway, counselor to the president; Gov. Jay Inslee, D-Wash., 2020 Democratic presidential candidate. ___ CBS' "Face the Nation" — Will be pre-empted by the early start of the Masters tournament coverage. ___ CNN's "State of the Union" — Rep. Jerrold Nadler, D-N.Y., chairman of the House Judiciary Committee; Rep. Eric Swalwell, D-Calif., 2020 Democratic presidential candidate; Sen. Rick Scott, R-Fla. ___ "Fox News Sunday" — Sanders; Sen. Ben Cardin, D-Md.Supported by By The Associated Press NEW YORK — Sen. Bernie Sanders took heat from some Democrats for holding a town hall on Fox News Channel but there's one result hard to argue with: it was the most-watched candidate event in the election campaign so far. An estimated 2.55 million people saw Sanders' town hall Monday in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, the Nielsen company said. Not only did that beat the 1.35 million people who saw Sanders on CNN on Feb. 25, the Fox telecast aired before prime time when traditionally the largest audience gathers. Sen. Kamala Harris' CNN town hall in January was seen by 1.95 million viewers, the previous high for a 2020 presidential contender. The Vermont senator also apparently had one prominent viewer in Washington. President Donald Trump tweeted Tuesday that it was "so weird to watch Crazy Bernie" on Fox News. He said Bret Baier, who co-anchored the event with Martha MacCallum, and the audience was "so smiley and nice." Baier later tweeted his thanks to Trump for watching, and said he'd like to have the president on a town hall or for an interview on his nightly news show. "We cover all sides," Baier said. While Trump is a frequent interview subject on Fox, he tends to avoid newsier personalities like Baier and Chris Wallace. Later Tuesday, Trump claimed that "Many Trump Fans & Signs were outside of the @FoxNews Studio" during the Sanders event. "Big complaints about not being let in-stuffed with Bernie supporters," the president tweeted. "What's with @FoxNews?" During the town hall, Sanders noted the blowback he'd gotten from some Democrats for appearing on Fox and took a few shots at the network, at one point drawing a rebuke from Baier. "We are very grateful that you're here," Baier said. "We are giving you an hour of substance and talk on our airwaves so we can get over the Fox thing, if you're alright with that," he said. Fox says it is in talks with other Democrats to have town halls on the network, but hasn't said who. Democratic National Committee head Tom Perez said earlier Monday that the organization was not reconsidering its decision in February not to hold any of its upcoming debates on the network. He was responding to a question from Fox's Bill Hemmer about upcoming debates, which the DNC has scheduled on NBC News and CNN. Fox chose not to pre-empt its opinionated prime-time lineup of Tucker Carlson, Sean Hannity and Laura Ingraham to show Sanders on Monday. The prime-time hosts spent relatively little time on the Sanders appearance that had preceded their shows. "You saw crazy Bernie on the air tonight," Hannity said during his monologue. "That was hard to watch. ... Let's hear every communist idea we possibly can."

Supported by By The Associated Press NEW YORK — Sen. Bernie Sanders took heat from some Democrats for holding a town hall on Fox News Channel but there's one result hard to argue with: it was the most-watched candidate event in the election campaign so far. An estimated 2.55 million people saw Sanders' town hall Monday in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, the Nielsen company said. Not only did that beat the 1.35 million people who saw Sanders on CNN on Feb. 25, the Fox telecast aired before prime time when traditionally the largest audience gathers. Sen. Kamala Harris' CNN town hall in January was seen by 1.95 million viewers, the previous high for a 2020 presidential contender. The Vermont senator also apparently had one prominent viewer in Washington. President Donald Trump tweeted Tuesday that it was "so weird to watch Crazy Bernie" on Fox News. He said Bret Baier, who co-anchored the event with Martha MacCallum, and the audience was "so smiley and nice." Baier later tweeted his thanks to Trump for watching, and said he'd like to have the president on a town hall or for an interview on his nightly news show. "We cover all sides," Baier said. While Trump is a frequent interview subject on Fox, he tends to avoid newsier personalities like Baier and Chris Wallace. Later Tuesday, Trump claimed that "Many Trump Fans & Signs were outside of the @FoxNews Studio" during the Sanders event. "Big complaints about not being let in-stuffed with Bernie supporters," the president tweeted. "What's with @FoxNews?" During the town hall, Sanders noted the blowback he'd gotten from some Democrats for appearing on Fox and took a few shots at the network, at one point drawing a rebuke from Baier. "We are very grateful that you're here," Baier said. "We are giving you an hour of substance and talk on our airwaves so we can get over the Fox thing, if you're alright with that," he said. Fox says it is in talks with other Democrats to have town halls on the network, but hasn't said who. Democratic National Committee head Tom Perez said earlier Monday that the organization was not reconsidering its decision in February not to hold any of its upcoming debates on the network. He was responding to a question from Fox's Bill Hemmer about upcoming debates, which the DNC has scheduled on NBC News and CNN. Fox chose not to pre-empt its opinionated prime-time lineup of Tucker Carlson, Sean Hannity and Laura Ingraham to show Sanders on Monday. The prime-time hosts spent relatively little time on the Sanders appearance that had preceded their shows. "You saw crazy Bernie on the air tonight," Hannity said during his monologue. "That was hard to watch. ... Let's hear every communist idea we possibly can."Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — A White House spokeswoman says lawmakers aren't "smart enough" to assess President Donald Trump's tax returns. Press secretary Sarah Sanders tells "Fox News Sunday" she doesn't think House Democrats are equipped to examine the documents, which a key House committee is demanding under a 1920s law. The panel has given the IRS until April 23 to hand over six years' worth of Trump's personal and business filings. Trump said again last week that he won't release them because he is under audit, although the IRS says an audit doesn't bar public release. The president has also claimed the filings are too complex for people to understand. According to Sanders, that includes lawmakers, whom she doesn't trust to "look through the decades of success that the president has and determine anything."

Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — A White House spokeswoman says lawmakers aren't "smart enough" to assess President Donald Trump's tax returns. Press secretary Sarah Sanders tells "Fox News Sunday" she doesn't think House Democrats are equipped to examine the documents, which a key House committee is demanding under a 1920s law. The panel has given the IRS until April 23 to hand over six years' worth of Trump's personal and business filings. Trump said again last week that he won't release them because he is under audit, although the IRS says an audit doesn't bar public release. The president has also claimed the filings are too complex for people to understand. According to Sanders, that includes lawmakers, whom she doesn't trust to "look through the decades of success that the president has and determine anything."Supported by By Jim Windolf The studios at Fox News, CNN and MSNBC filled with anchors and commentators, waiting for Attorney General William P. Barr to make news on Sunday afternoon with the release of a letter summarizing the findings of the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III. As the cable teams assembled, NBC News prepared to interrupt a golf tournament and ABC News got ready to break into coverage of a professional video-game contest. NBC was the first broadcast network to provide details of Mr. Barr’s four-page summary of Mr. Mueller’s far lengthier and still unpublished report. The network’s justice correspondent, Pete Williams, stood before the Justice Department headquarters in Washington and simply read aloud from the attorney general’s letter to Congress. After he was through, Kate Snow, the NBC anchor on duty, said, “Some of what you just read cold on the air is a lot of legalese.” Mr. Williams scanned the document and found a key sentence about Russia’s attempt at meddling in the 2016 presidential election: “‘The special counsel did not find that the Trump campaign or anyone associated with it conspired or coordinated with the Russian government in these efforts,’” Mr. Williams said, reading aloud. He also said that, while the report apparently did not conclude that President Trump had committed a crime, it also did not exonerate him. On CNN at roughly the same time, three correspondents, who were seated side by side (by side) in the network’s Washington studio, stared at their phone screens and called out important phrases from the Barr letter. Their well-meaning efforts were interrupted by the anchor Wolf Blitzer, who read aloud a tweet that had been posted by Representative Jerrold Nadler, Democrat of New York: “‘The Special Counsel states that ‘while this report does not conclude that the President committed a crime, it also does not exonerate him,”’” Mr. Blitzer said. Mr. Blitzer ceded the stage to Jeffrey Toobin, the CNN legal analyst, who said that, in his view, Mr. Mueller’s report amounted to “total vindication of the president and his staff on the issue of collusion.” After a fanfare of timpani drums, George Stephanopoulos of ABC broke into that network’s broadcast of a professional video-game contest at 3:42, a few minutes after NBC had aired its live reading of the news-making letter. The matter of Mr. Mueller’s elusiveness came up during the ABC special report. “We never heard from the man in 22 months,” Mr. Stephanopoulos said of the special counsel. Pierre Thomas, the senior justice correspondent for ABC, nodded in agreement and recalled being told that “Robert Mueller would be the president’s best friend, if he found no evidence of collusion.” CBS waited until 3:51 to cut into its coverage of the annual men’s college basketball tournament with a 90-second report by Paula Reid, a correspondent covering the Justice Department and the White House. When a full gamut of panelists appeared on CBS, they were not news reporters, but sports commentators, and they were offering halftime analysis. “It feels like it should be more than an 8-point lead for Carolina,” Greg Gumbel said of a game between the University of Washington and the University of North Carolina. (CBS followed the game commentary with a second report from Ms. Reid and its chief White House correspondent, Major Garrett, also during halftime.) Hours before Mr. Barr had provided his rundown of the much-anticipated report — which Mr. Mueller had assembled in seemingly leakproof silence over a 22-month period — it was the main fodder for the politically oriented Sunday morning shows and early-afternoon cable news programs. Chuck Todd led a wall-to-wall discussion on NBC’s “Meet the Press.” It included commentary on whether the Democratic presidential candidate Beto O’Rourke had jumped the gun at a campaign stop on Friday when he said: “This is an unprecedented attack on this country and on our democracy, and we are owed the facts. And if we do not receive them, 243 years in, there’s nothing that guarantees us a 244th.” On “Fox News Sunday,” the program hosted by Chris Wallace, Representative Doug Collins, Republican of Georgia, said the president had been proved right in repeatedly saying “no collusion.” On the same show, Mr. Nadler called for the release of the entire report and its underlying materials. Also in the morning hours, on CNN’s “Reliable Sources,” the host Brian Stelter asked of whether reporters and talking heads had inflated expectations. He seemed to be reacting to an analytical article posted online on Saturday by the Rolling Stone journalist Matt Taibbi, who wrote that the lack of new charges emerging from the report “is a deathblow for the reputation of the American news media.” Mr. Taibbi cited instances of overreaching by some reporters and pundits to make his case. Mr. Stelter pushed back against that view. “Don’t be fooled by the partisans who cherry-pick the worst mistakes of individual journalists or the craziest ideas from commentators and claim that’s the entire media,” he said. The problem, Mr. Stelter said, lay in the competing interests of “agenda-driven columnists” and “journalists who report the news.” He put Joy-Ann Reid, of MSNBC, and Jesse Watters, of Fox News, in the agenda-driven camp. Then he rolled a clip of Ms. Reid suggesting that Mr. Barr may have an interest in covering up the facts; and another of Mr. Watters characterizing the Mueller report as “a knockout blow to the Democrats and the press who say, ‘Collusion, collusion, collusion.’” The Nixon-era reporting led by Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein of The Washington Post seemed newly exceptional, now that Mr. Mueller’s work was done. Mr. Bernstein, a CNN contributor who was a guest on Mr. Stelter’s show, praised recent coverage of President Trump and the allegations that have surrounded him. He singled out the journalism of The Wall Street Journal — owned by Rupert Murdoch’s News Corporation — as a sign that democracy was working. Noting its assiduously reported articles on Mr. Trump, Mr. Bernstein said, “It ought to be stressed that the same owner of Fox News published these stories in his paper.”  

Supported by By Jim Windolf The studios at Fox News, CNN and MSNBC filled with anchors and commentators, waiting for Attorney General William P. Barr to make news on Sunday afternoon with the release of a letter summarizing the findings of the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III. As the cable teams assembled, NBC News prepared to interrupt a golf tournament and ABC News got ready to break into coverage of a professional video-game contest. NBC was the first broadcast network to provide details of Mr. Barr’s four-page summary of Mr. Mueller’s far lengthier and still unpublished report. The network’s justice correspondent, Pete Williams, stood before the Justice Department headquarters in Washington and simply read aloud from the attorney general’s letter to Congress. After he was through, Kate Snow, the NBC anchor on duty, said, “Some of what you just read cold on the air is a lot of legalese.” Mr. Williams scanned the document and found a key sentence about Russia’s attempt at meddling in the 2016 presidential election: “‘The special counsel did not find that the Trump campaign or anyone associated with it conspired or coordinated with the Russian government in these efforts,’” Mr. Williams said, reading aloud. He also said that, while the report apparently did not conclude that President Trump had committed a crime, it also did not exonerate him. On CNN at roughly the same time, three correspondents, who were seated side by side (by side) in the network’s Washington studio, stared at their phone screens and called out important phrases from the Barr letter. Their well-meaning efforts were interrupted by the anchor Wolf Blitzer, who read aloud a tweet that had been posted by Representative Jerrold Nadler, Democrat of New York: “‘The Special Counsel states that ‘while this report does not conclude that the President committed a crime, it also does not exonerate him,”’” Mr. Blitzer said. Mr. Blitzer ceded the stage to Jeffrey Toobin, the CNN legal analyst, who said that, in his view, Mr. Mueller’s report amounted to “total vindication of the president and his staff on the issue of collusion.” After a fanfare of timpani drums, George Stephanopoulos of ABC broke into that network’s broadcast of a professional video-game contest at 3:42, a few minutes after NBC had aired its live reading of the news-making letter. The matter of Mr. Mueller’s elusiveness came up during the ABC special report. “We never heard from the man in 22 months,” Mr. Stephanopoulos said of the special counsel. Pierre Thomas, the senior justice correspondent for ABC, nodded in agreement and recalled being told that “Robert Mueller would be the president’s best friend, if he found no evidence of collusion.” CBS waited until 3:51 to cut into its coverage of the annual men’s college basketball tournament with a 90-second report by Paula Reid, a correspondent covering the Justice Department and the White House. When a full gamut of panelists appeared on CBS, they were not news reporters, but sports commentators, and they were offering halftime analysis. “It feels like it should be more than an 8-point lead for Carolina,” Greg Gumbel said of a game between the University of Washington and the University of North Carolina. (CBS followed the game commentary with a second report from Ms. Reid and its chief White House correspondent, Major Garrett, also during halftime.) Hours before Mr. Barr had provided his rundown of the much-anticipated report — which Mr. Mueller had assembled in seemingly leakproof silence over a 22-month period — it was the main fodder for the politically oriented Sunday morning shows and early-afternoon cable news programs. Chuck Todd led a wall-to-wall discussion on NBC’s “Meet the Press.” It included commentary on whether the Democratic presidential candidate Beto O’Rourke had jumped the gun at a campaign stop on Friday when he said: “This is an unprecedented attack on this country and on our democracy, and we are owed the facts. And if we do not receive them, 243 years in, there’s nothing that guarantees us a 244th.” On “Fox News Sunday,” the program hosted by Chris Wallace, Representative Doug Collins, Republican of Georgia, said the president had been proved right in repeatedly saying “no collusion.” On the same show, Mr. Nadler called for the release of the entire report and its underlying materials. Also in the morning hours, on CNN’s “Reliable Sources,” the host Brian Stelter asked of whether reporters and talking heads had inflated expectations. He seemed to be reacting to an analytical article posted online on Saturday by the Rolling Stone journalist Matt Taibbi, who wrote that the lack of new charges emerging from the report “is a deathblow for the reputation of the American news media.” Mr. Taibbi cited instances of overreaching by some reporters and pundits to make his case. Mr. Stelter pushed back against that view. “Don’t be fooled by the partisans who cherry-pick the worst mistakes of individual journalists or the craziest ideas from commentators and claim that’s the entire media,” he said. The problem, Mr. Stelter said, lay in the competing interests of “agenda-driven columnists” and “journalists who report the news.” He put Joy-Ann Reid, of MSNBC, and Jesse Watters, of Fox News, in the agenda-driven camp. Then he rolled a clip of Ms. Reid suggesting that Mr. Barr may have an interest in covering up the facts; and another of Mr. Watters characterizing the Mueller report as “a knockout blow to the Democrats and the press who say, ‘Collusion, collusion, collusion.’” The Nixon-era reporting led by Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein of The Washington Post seemed newly exceptional, now that Mr. Mueller’s work was done. Mr. Bernstein, a CNN contributor who was a guest on Mr. Stelter’s show, praised recent coverage of President Trump and the allegations that have surrounded him. He singled out the journalism of The Wall Street Journal — owned by Rupert Murdoch’s News Corporation — as a sign that democracy was working. Noting its assiduously reported articles on Mr. Trump, Mr. Bernstein said, “It ought to be stressed that the same owner of Fox News published these stories in his paper.”  Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — Democrats will "never" see President Donald Trump's tax returns. That from White House chief of staff Mick Mulvaney, as a new front is opened in the confrontation between the administration and Congress. Mulvaney accused Democrats of engaging in a "political stunt" and wanting "attention" after the chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, Rep. Richard Neal, asked the IRS to provide six years of Trump's personal tax returns and the returns for some of his businesses. Asked on "Fox News Sunday" whether he believe Democrats would ever view the president's returns, Mulvaney replied: "Oh no, never. Nor should they." Last week, Massachusetts Democrat Neal, one of only three congressional officials authorized to request tax returns, requested Trump's personal and business returns in a letter to IRS Commissioner Charles Rettig.

Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — Democrats will "never" see President Donald Trump's tax returns. That from White House chief of staff Mick Mulvaney, as a new front is opened in the confrontation between the administration and Congress. Mulvaney accused Democrats of engaging in a "political stunt" and wanting "attention" after the chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, Rep. Richard Neal, asked the IRS to provide six years of Trump's personal tax returns and the returns for some of his businesses. Asked on "Fox News Sunday" whether he believe Democrats would ever view the president's returns, Mulvaney replied: "Oh no, never. Nor should they." Last week, Massachusetts Democrat Neal, one of only three congressional officials authorized to request tax returns, requested Trump's personal and business returns in a letter to IRS Commissioner Charles Rettig.

      By JONATHAN MAHLER and 
    
JIM RUTENBERG

APRIL 3, 2019
 
The Disney deal left the Murdochs with a media empire stripped to its essence: a hard-core right-wing news machine — with Lachlan in charge.
 

          
            Part 3: The New Fox Weapon
            
        
        The Disney deal left the Murdochs with a media empire stripped to its essence: a hard-core right-wing news machine — with Lachlan in charge.
          
       By JONATHAN MAHLER and JIM RUTENBERG APRIL 3, 2019 This is Part 3 of a three-part story. Go back and read Part 1 and Part 2. It was in the midst of this moment — the biggest deal of his career — that the 86-year-old Murdoch tripped on his way to the bathroom on Lachlan’s yacht and had to be transported to Los Angeles. With their father laid up at the Ronald Reagan U.C.L.A. Medical Center at the start of 2018, Murdoch’s children descended on Los Angeles, unsure if this would be the end. Lachlan and his wife, Sarah, met them at the hospital. Elisabeth and her husband, Keith Tyson, came from London, James and Kathryn from New York. Murdoch’s surgery was successful. Not long after his children arrived, his condition stabilized. Following his near-death experience, Murdoch joked that he did not realize how serious his condition was until he had seen all his children gathered around his hospital bed. Murdoch would be laid up for the next few months but still in command, running things from his bedroom at Moraga. In an email to his senior management leaked to Vanity Fair’s Gabriel Sherman, he described the incident as “a sailing accident” and said that he would be working at home for a little while. “In the meantime,” Murdoch wrote, “you’ll be hearing from me by email, phone and text!” The negotiations continued. As they did, Lachlan and James adjusted to their new realities. Unable to secure a job at Disney that he wanted, and wary of its aggressively safe and hierarchical culture, James decided in the winter that he would not try to follow the family’s assets to their new home, according to three people who are close to him. Lachlan would take over what was left of the Murdoch empire without interference from his brother. In early June 2018, before the final terms were settled, another bidder emerged. Brian Roberts, the chief executive of Comcast, offered Murdoch $65 billion for 21st Century Fox, $12.6 billion more than Disney was prepared to pay. Murdoch didn’t want to sell to Comcast, according to three people familiar with his thinking. He preferred Disney for a variety of reasons, including his personal admiration for Iger, whom he viewed as a risk-taking leader in his own image. What’s more, the Comcast offer was all cash, which would create a big tax burden for Murdoch. But Murdoch did like the prospect of a bidding war. And he had a potential path to securing both a higher price and his preferred buyer in the Justice Department’s ongoing lawsuit to block a proposed merger between AT&T and Time Warner. Comcast’s interest in 21st Century Fox allowed Murdoch to drive up Disney’s purchase price to $71.3 billion. Iger and his team delivered what they hoped would be their final offer personally to Murdoch in London, traveling through Ireland because they were worried that Comcast might be tracking the movement of private planes flying in and out of London from the United States. Murdoch had Disney on the hook. His back now healed, Murdoch attended the Allen & Company media conference in Sun Valley, Idaho, in July 2018. With Roberts and Iger nearby, he seemed exhilarated; once again, he was in the middle of the action. The problem for Murdoch was that if Comcast made another counteroffer, he might have a fiduciary responsibility to present the offer to his board, and it might accept it, absent extenuating circumstances. He didn’t want his stalking horse to overtake his favorite. [Read 6 takeaways from this story.] The Trump Justice Department came to Murdoch’s rescue, appealing a federal court ruling in the AT&T and Time Warner case. On its face, the lawsuit had nothing to do with Comcast, but because the company had its own history of tangles with government regulators, the appeal would give Murdoch the cover he needed to accept Iger’s latest bid: Comcast now looked risky. There is no evidence that the Justice Department factored Murdoch’s interests into its decision-making process; nevertheless, he had gotten another $20 billion for his company while still selling to his preferred suitor. When the deal was finalized, Murdoch would personally make roughly $4 billion, bringing his net worth to $18 billion. All six of his children would receive $2 billion each. Lachlan and James would get even more — an additional $20 million in Disney stock, plus golden parachutes worth about $70 million each. Yet neither one was getting what he had really wanted. Media empires are built on the foresight and audacity of their leaders, their ability to anticipate and embrace sudden changes in an industry that’s constantly evolving. But they are also built on something far more mundane: government regulations. More than anything, it’s the moving of lines, the lifting of caps and the rewriting of rules that enable moguls to transform businesses into empires. These decisions are invariably opaque, the product of a labyrinthine bureaucratic process and the inherently subjective definition of what’s in the public interest. Under President Trump, these decisions have almost always broken Murdoch’s way. The Time Warner-AT&T deal was itself a good example of the ambiguities of this bureaucratic process. It worked out perfectly for Murdoch, but Trump had his own reason to try to block the acquisition: Time Warner was the owner of CNN, with which he was constantly feuding. He called it a “a deal that’s not good for the country,” and privately urged his chief economics adviser, Gary Cohn, to stop it, according to two people who were told about the conversation. (The exchange was first reported in The New Yorker.) Deals like this, a “vertical merger” between two companies in separate businesses, rarely face antitrust scrutiny. And yet Trump’s Department of Justice sued to prevent it, the first time the federal government had taken such a step in 40 years. The Justice Department antitrust enforcer who filed the government’s lawsuit against the deal, Makan Delrahim, was in fact on record saying earlier that he didn’t see it “as a major antitrust problem.” And yet when a federal judge, Richard Leon, dismissed the Justice Department’s case, calling one of its key arguments “gossamer thin,” the government appealed, and just in time to stave off Comcast’s next bid for 21st Century Fox. The process had dragged on for more than two years. The speed with which Murdoch’s Disney deal was approved stood in stark contrast. This type of agreement — a “horizontal merger” bringing together Hollywood’s largest and third-largest studios — would give the combined company near-monopoly power to raise consumers’ prices and limit their choices. Such deals ordinarily invite strict government scrutiny. The Department of Justice approved it in just six months. (Fox executives credit the company’s thorough preparations for its speedy and successful review.) After calling Murdoch to ensure that the deal wouldn’t affect Fox News, Trump had applauded it: “This could be a great thing for jobs,” his press secretary, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, said when asked to characterize the president’s reaction to the agreement. Wall Street analysts predicted that the deal would result in thousands of layoffs. The ambiguities of the regulatory process were also evident in another deal with major implications for Murdoch’s empire. In the spring of 2017, months before Murdoch started negotiating with Iger, the Sinclair Broadcast Group agreed to buy Tribune Media for $3.9 billion. Sinclair was already the largest owner of local TV stations in the country. It was also overwhelmingly pro-Trump: Its local stations, many of which were in key swing states, provided Trump with positive coverage during the campaign — a result, in part, of a deal that Kushner had personally struck with Sinclair’s chairman, David Smith. Murdoch had been concerned about the company’s steady growth. With Sinclair’s acquisition of Tribune, which was already in 39 percent of American households, the company would now be in more than 70 percent. What’s more, Tribune owned WGN, an unremarkable cable channel with unexploited potential: It reached nearly 80 million homes and could easily be converted into a right-wing national news network — an instant competitor to Fox News. In conversations with colleagues, Murdoch worried that Sinclair might hire O’Reilly as the marquee star of the new Fox rival. Sinclair seemed to have a friend and ally not just in Trump but also in the Federal Communications Commission’s chairman, Ajit Pai. Days after the election, when he was still just a commissioner at the agency, he appeared at a Sinclair executive retreat at the Four Seasons in Baltimore, according to a Politico story. After he became chairman in 2017, he effectively enabled Sinclair’s bid for the Tribune stations, easing limits on how many stations a single company could own. There was enough suspicion that Pai might be inclined to give Sinclair favorable treatment that the F.C.C.’s inspector general started an investigation into the commissioner’s relationship with the company. But then, in the summer of 2018, Pai basically blocked the deal, announcing that he had “serious concerns” about it. Sinclair officials said they were “shocked.” Once again, things had broken Murdoch’s way. The report cleared Pai of inappropriate conduct — either to help or hurt Sinclair — though it left some questions unanswered about Fox, like what Pai and Jared Kushner discussed during a conversation just before the deal was announced. Pai was asked if anyone from Fox News had tried to influence the ruling. He “responded in the negative,” the investigators wrote. In the middle of August 2018, Lachlan Murdoch emerged from his Gulfstream G550 in a T-shirt and jeans and climbed into a black Range Rover waiting for him on the tarmac. Australian paparazzi were waiting there, too, as they often were when Lachlan or his father arrived in Sydney. This time, they were both in town: Murdoch had landed two days earlier. They went for a company awards dinner, but they had another agenda as well. The night after his arrival, Lachlan invited a small group of Sky employees and managers to his $16 million mansion in Sydney for drinks. With its new prime-time lineup of hard-right opinion hosts, Sky had become a force in Australian politics. Its audience was still small by American standards, but it was the network of choice in the capital, Canberra, and it was finalizing a deal to expand its reach into the Australian Outback — demographically speaking, the equivalent of Trump country. It was a mirror of Fox News, with its fixation on race, identity and climate-change denial. Night after night, Sky’s hosts and their guests stirred anger over the perceived liberal bias of the media, “suicidal self-hatred” of Western civilization and the Australian equivalent of the Central American “caravans” that were dividing the United States: asylum seekers coming to the country by boat from Indonesia and Malaysia, many of them Muslim. Days before Lachlan’s arrival, a national neo-Nazi leader, Blair Cottrell — who had recently been fined for “inciting contempt for Muslims” — appeared on one of the network’s shows. Cottrell had been interviewed on Australian TV before, but his deferential treatment by Sky caused a national outcry. Under gentle questioning, he called on his countrymen to “reclaim our traditional identity as Australians” and advocated limiting immigration to those “who are not too culturally dissimilar from us,” such as white South African farmers. (Sky apologized and suspended the program.) Inside Lachlan’s living room, the talk turned to national politics. “Do you think Malcolm is going to survive?” Lachlan asked his staff. Malcolm was Malcolm Turnbull, the relatively moderate Australian prime minister who took office a few years earlier. Inside the government, a small right-wing uprising had been brewing over his plans to bring Australia into compliance with the Paris climate accord. It is well established among those who have worked for the Murdochs that the family rarely, if ever, issues specific directives. They convey their desires indirectly, maybe with a tweet — as Murdoch did in the spring of 2016 when he decided to back Trump — or a question, the subtleties of which are rarely lost on their like-minded news executives. In the days that followed, Sky Australia’s hosts and the Murdoch papers — the newspaper editors had their own drinks session at Lachlan’s mansion — set about trying to throw Turnbull out of office. Alan Jones, a Sky host and conservative radio star, called for a party “rebellion” against him on his program. Days later, the Murdochs’ major paper in Sydney, The Daily Telegraph, broke the news that a leadership challenge was in the works. Cheering on the challenge, Andrew Bolt, the Murdoch columnist who was once convicted of violating the country’s Racial Discrimination Act, told his Sky viewers that Turnbull’s “credibility is shot, his authority is gone.” Peta Credlin, the commentator who was Tony Abbott’s former chief of staff, chewed out a member of Parliament for the chaos inside Turnbull’s administration. The Australian, the Murdochs’ national newspaper, was soon declaring Turnbull a “dead man walking.” Word got back to Turnbull about Lachlan’s remark to his staff. He knew that Sky After Dark had been becoming increasingly critical of him: Months earlier, an aide showed him a video montage of promotional clips from the network questioning his leadership of the country. “Is it always like this?” the aide recalled him asking. But he now believed that this tough coverage was part of a concerted campaign. One of his senior aides confronted the Murdochs’ Australian executives in a text that was shared with us. The Turnbull camp knew, it said, that “Lachlan had made it clear at the editors drinks on Tuesday night that he would like MT to get rolled.” Turnbull heard, too, that Rupert Murdoch was miffed at him because he had not reached out to him since he landed in the country, according to three former officials in Turnbull’s government. Turnbull’s chief of staff had been trying to set up a meeting with Murdoch; he now redoubled his efforts. Turnbull settled for a phone call, pleading with Murdoch to back off. “Let me have a look at it, and let me talk to Lachlan,” Murdoch said. “I’m retired. I’ll talk to Lachlan.” (Through a spokesman, Murdoch denied that he felt slighted by Turnbull.) Two days later, Turnbull’s right-wing opponents ousted him through a definitive intraparty vote, known in Australian politics as a leadership “spill.” Chaos ensued, creating round-the-clock political theater for Sky Australia, which logged its highest ratings in the network’s history. (The Murdochs have denied any role in the ouster.) It was always difficult to separate the personal from the financial and the ideological with the Murdochs. All appeared to be in evidence in their decision to turn against Turnbull. To begin with, he took office a few years earlier by ousting Lachlan’s friend Tony Abbott, and it was Abbott who helped lead the Turnbull uprising. Turnbull’s policies were also not perfectly aligned with the Murdochs’ interests. For instance, he had expedited the construction of the country’s national broadband network, which directly threatened the family’s highly profitable cable business by giving Netflix a government-subsidized pipeline into Australian homes. The small number of Australian media outlets that the Murdochs did not own portrayed Turnbull’s ouster as a Murdoch-led “coup.” Kevin Rudd, a former prime minister whom the family had helped push out of office years earlier, described Murdoch in an op-ed in The Sydney Morning Herald as “the greatest cancer on the Australian democracy.” Turnbull was replaced by the right-wing nationalist Scott Morrison, who quickly aligned himself with Trump. The two met in person for the first time in late 2018 at the G-20 summit meeting in Buenos Aires. “I think it’s going to be a great relationship,” Trump said afterward. With a national election scheduled for May 2019, Morrison quickly staked his party’s prospects on the polarizing issue of immigration, promising a new hard-line approach. It dovetailed with Sky’s regular prime-time programming. Andrew Bolt, who previously warned of a “foreign invasion,” said in one segment, “We also risk importing ethnic and religious strife, even terrorism,” as the screen flashed an image of Australia’s potential future: rows of Muslims on a city street, bowing toward Mecca. When the opposing Labor Party managed to muscle through legislation that would allow doctors to transfer severely sick migrants in detention centers on the islands of Nauru and Manus into hospitals in Australia, Sky Australia’s prime-time hosts went on the offensive. The third generation of the Murdoch dynasty was finally taking control. The Disney deal was still pending regulatory approval in a few countries — the two companies had overlapping operations in China, Mexico, Brazil and elsewhere — but Lachlan was already shifting to his new role as chairman and chief executive of the new Fox. The empire was much smaller, but in political terms, at least, it was no less powerful, and its direction was clear. Lachlan generally avoids on-the-record interviews, but now that he was taking ownership of the family business, it seemed appropriate to make at least one public appearance. He chose the New York Times-sponsored DealBook conference about corporate leadership. On Nov. 1, less than three months after the Australian “coup,” Lachlan appeared onstage in the Time Warner Center in Midtown Manhattan. Tieless, in a white shirt, a navy suit and his trademark black outback boots, he offered a selfless account of the Disney deal. “We immediately saw that this made a great deal of strategic sense,” he told his interviewer, the New York Times columnist Andrew Ross Sorkin. He asked Murdoch if there was any part of him that was disappointed at the prospect of the shrinking of his would-be empire. “Your first thought is shareholders,” Lachlan replied. During the brief Q. and A. that followed, Lachlan dismissed the critics of Fox News as narrow-minded. “No, I’m not embarrassed by what they do at all,” he said of the network’s prime-time hosts. “I frankly feel that in this country, we all have to be more tolerant of each other’s views.” In the days leading up to the conference, some Fox News hosts and guests had been moving ever closer to openly embracing the most bigoted sentiments of the white-nationalist movement. A few days before the anti-Semitic attack on a Pittsburgh synagogue that killed 11 Jewish worshipers, a guest on Lou Dobbs’s show had said that a migrant caravan headed to the United States border from Honduras was being funded by the “Soros-occupied State Department.” (The network apologized.) The shooter, according to a post he made on social media, had come to believe that Jews were transporting members of the migrant caravans. When Tucker Carlson came under fire for his increasingly pointed attacks on immigration — “We have a moral obligation to admit the world’s poor, they tell us, even if it makes our country poorer and dirtier and more divided” — he received personal text messages of support from Lachlan, according to two people familiar with the texts. The lines between Fox News and the Trump White House were continuing to blur. At Hannity’s urging, Trump hired the unemployed Bill Shine as his deputy chief of staff for communications in the summer of 2018, ushering in a new era of increased hostility between the White House and the mainstream media: Within days of his arrival in Washington in July 2018, Shine called the Fox control room to change an onscreen chyron about Ivanka Trump that he considered unflattering, according to a source inside Fox, who says his request was denied. Shine also barred Kaitlan Collins, a CNN White House reporter, from an event after she asked Trump several questions about Michael Cohen and President Vladimir Putin of Russia. Unlike his father, Lachlan did not have a long-term relationship with Trump, but he hired the former White House communications director Hope Hicks as the new chief communications officer for the new Fox. Hicks was only 29, but she was the rare member of Trump’s inner circle who left the administration on good terms, and she remained very close to the president, the Trump family and others in the White House. (Kushner has privately told people that he provided a reference for her to Murdoch.) Lachlan’s first initiative was Fox Nation, a subscription-only, on-demand streaming service started last fall for Fox “superfans.” It would be a platform for a new generation of Fox stars and viewers. One of its most prominent personalities was Tomi Lahren, a 26-year-old recent graduate of the University of Nevada, Las Vegas, who had built a large social-media following with bite-size quips; for instance, she referred to Black Lives Matter as “the new KKK” and to refugees as “rape-ugees.” Most of its shows would be live-streamed during the day, making it a convenient alternative to the network’s daytime news programming, which was too politically neutral for many Fox watchers. And because Fox Nation was on the internet, the content could be even less restrained than the network’s evening programming. In addition to opinion-heavy political coverage, there would also be lighter fare — such as a cooking show with the “Fox & Friends” host Steve Doocy — and “deep dives,” including a documentary about the former anchor of the CBS Evening News: “Black Eye: Dan Rather and the Birth of Fake News.” Lachlan’s longer-term plan was to take this undiluted, unchecked form of Fox News overseas. Roger Ailes once blocked Sean Hannity from hosting a Tea Party fund-raiser on his show. When Hannity and the Fox host Jeanine Pirro joined Trump onstage at his final rally before the November midterm elections, the old Ailesian concern that the network should keep at least some distance from its political allies had come to feel quaint. Hannity played to the crowd, referring to all the reporters in the press pen as “fake news” and praising Trump’s accomplishments. After a tepid rebuke from management for participating in the rally, he clarified his comments about the press: They were not intended to refer to Fox’s reporters at the rally, he said, just the rest of the media. At times, Fox News seemed to be dictating presidential policy, or at least channeling the base that appeared to control the White House’s agenda. In late 2018, Trump was heading toward a budget deal with the newly ascendant Democrats until guests and hosts across the network started shaming him, demanding that he not sign any government spending bills that didn’t include $5 billion for a border wall. “Don’t listen to squish advisers,” urged Pete Hegseth, a “Fox & Friends” host. He didn’t. He listened to Fox instead and shut down the federal government. It was the made-for-TV climax of a campaign started months earlier. And like the enduring paralysis of the British government and the political upheaval in Australia, it was the legacy of a single family that was now descending into a chaos of its own. Having spent almost his entire adult life trying to prove that he was worthy of running the Murdoch empire, James had finally broken with it. He struck out on his own at the end of 2018, setting up his own family office in a new building in Greenwich Village to manage his vastly expanded fortune and invest in technology start-ups. By now, he and his brother were barely on speaking terms. James had always accepted as a given the interlacing of politics and business that had built his family’s fortune. He had even practiced his own version of it, however unsuccessfully, in London. He had stayed with the company for more than two decades, to prove himself to his father and because of dynastic obligation. “I can’t leave,” he told a friend during the hacking scandal. “I was brought up to do this.” The bonds were not just emotional: His fortune was tied up in his holdings in the family business. In the end, his father had chosen Lachlan. The empire that James had long sought to run was being dismantled. Lachlan had won their lifelong competition to become their father’s heir, but then, what had he really won? To friends, James dismissed his brother’s new company as “an American political project.” But even now, James couldn’t fully distance himself from the new company: He was still holding a large chunk of its voting stock, and as long as that was the case, his fortunes would be tied to Lachlan’s “American political project.” He couldn’t cash out, because Murdoch had made sure that none of his children would be able to sell their voting shares to an outsider. And yet, as levers with which to influence the company, these shares were virtually useless because their father remained the controlling shareholder in the family trust. James saw only one solution. He would sell his stock to Lachlan and his father, and maybe his sisters would join him. What was once a complex family dynasty would become a simple hereditary monarchy. Elisabeth and Prudence enthusiastically agreed. Murdoch, too, was excited about the idea, seeing it as an opportunity to rid the company of an in-house critic. He urged Lachlan to do it: The two of them, father and son, would own the company together. The documents were drawn up, but in late 2018, given the chance to have the company to himself, Lachlan balked. (Through a spokesman, Lachlan said that buying out his siblings wasn’t financially feasible.) Had Murdoch won or lost? On the one hand, Murdoch had achieved everything he wanted. He had made all his children multibillionaires, while not only keeping the division of his company that was most dear to him but also passing on control of it to his favorite son. Everyone, Murdoch included, had thought Hillary Clinton was going to win in 2016, but he had made a bet on a different candidate — and the power of a countervailing historical force — and he’d been rewarded with ratings, money and access. And yet that bet had torn apart both his family and his company. What was left was not a sprawling media empire that contained all his ambitions, but a political weapon. James and Kathryn were planning to devote some of their fortune to try to neutralize that weapon. In early 2019, their foundation, Quadrivium, announced initiatives to defend democratic nations against what they saw as the rising threat of illiberal populism and to bolster voting rights. The Disney deal was scheduled to close in the spring. During the family’s final months as the owners of the storied 21st Century Fox, they attended the Oscar festivities one last time. It had long been an annual event for the Murdochs; in an earlier era, the family hosted a few events of their own, celebrity-filled parties at their Beverly Hills home. There was a brief but memorable exchange at the Vanity Fair dinner during the ceremony. In one sense, it was a recapitulation of the ideological conflict that was dividing both the Murdochs and the world. In another, it was just a family spat. When it came to the Murdochs, was there really a difference? At the Vanity Fair dinner during the ceremony, Kathryn was seated next to Jon Lovett, a former speechwriter for Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton and a host of the vehemently anti-Trump podcast “Pod Save America.” Lovett did not seem thrilled with his table assignment, but as he and Kathryn started talking, it quickly became clear that she did not share the politics of the Murdoch family business. The conversation inevitably turned to Fox News and the damage it was doing. Kathryn offered to introduce Lovett to the chief executive of the network, her brother-in-law, who was seated at a table nearby. Lovett initially resisted — “I don’t need to talk to this person. It’s not going to be pleasant for anyone” — but later in the evening, Kathryn brought them together. “Do you feel proud of what’s happening between 8 and 11 every night?” Lovett asked. “You think this is good for the world?” “Yeah, I think they’re doing a great job,” Lachlan replied. Then Lachlan threw the question back at Lovett: Were there any conservative voices he would accept on Fox? Before Lovett could answer, Kathryn interjected, ticking off a list of anti-Trump Republicans. Lachlan turned away and joined another conversation. On the morning of March 19, 2019, the new, streamlined Fox officially became a publicly traded, if Murdoch-controlled, company, with Lachlan as its chairman and chief executive and Murdoch as co-chairman. Its name was simply Fox Corporation. A week earlier, Fox News held its first “upfront” for advertising agencies, trying to reassure skittish ad buyers that the network represented a “safe” brand for their products, according to a report in Ad Age. There were videotaped interviews with Fox News viewers — “they deliver the news accurately and honestly” — and a panel discussion with Fox personalities, who expressed optimism about the state of the country and the network. “This is a great time to be an American,” Laura Ingraham said. “Pretty much right now, I don’t see how it can get much better than this.” In the 22-year history of the network, the Fox News Effect had never been more pronounced. A March study by Navigation Research, a Democratic firm, found that 12 percent of Fox News viewers believe that climate change is mostly caused by humans, compared with 62 percent of all other Americans. At the same time, 78 percent of Fox viewers believe that Trump has accomplished more than any president in American history, compared with 17 percent of other Americans. The same could be said of the more global Murdoch effect. Brexit-inspired chaos continued to rattle Britain. Both of Theresa May’s proposals to formalize the country’s break with the European Union were rejected by the British Parliament. The possibility of a “no-deal Brexit” — in which the country would simply crash out of the European bloc, quite possibly triggering a historic economic collapse — loomed. In late March, more than a million protesters took to the streets of London to demand a second Brexit referendum. With May’s fellow conservatives questioning her continued leadership of the party, a former Murdoch columnist, editor and friend, Michael Gove — now a member of Parliament — was being talked about as a possible replacement. Thousands of miles away, another consequence of the global ethnonationalist fervor that the Murdoch empire had amplified and mainstreamed was playing out in New Zealand, where an Australian white nationalist, Brenton Tarrant, stood accused of killing 50 worshipers at two Christchurch mosques on March 14. There was no direct connection between Tarrant and Sky Australia, but critics of the network quickly drew attention to its consistently anti-Muslim rhetoric. In an online comment, unearthed by the Australian Broadcasting Corporation, Tarrant had described Trump’s election as “one of the most important events in modern history.” He was also a fan of the white nationalist Blair Cottrell, whose appearance on Sky Australia over the summer caused American Express to pull its ads from the network. Following the massacre, a young Muslim employee of Sky News in Australia quit in protest. “Over the past few years, I was playing a role — no matter how small — in a network whose tone I knew would help legitimize radical views present in the fringes of our society,” she wrote in a post on the Australian Broadcasting Corporation’s website. In the United States, what remained of the Murdoch empire was already gearing up for the 2020 presidential election. One of its first steps was to bring The New York Post more in line with Fox News. The paper had long been Trump’s first read — it was delivered daily to the White House — but its coverage was not uniformly favorable. In January, the Murdochs brought back one of the paper’s former editors, Col Allan, to help run the paper. An old Trump golf partner, Allan had come up through Australia’s tabloids and has been described as “Rupe’s attack dog.” Jesse Angelo, The Post’s publisher — and James’s lifelong best friend — resigned shortly after hearing the news. Across Fox News, hosts treated the submission of the Mueller Report in late March as the end of a two-year witch hunt and the beginning of Trump’s re-election campaign. The probe had resulted in the indictments of 34 individuals; guilty pleas and convictions from five former Trump business associates or former campaign officials; and a number of ongoing state, federal and congressional investigations. But on Fox’s prime time, Mueller’s decision against bringing new indictments was portrayed as vindication of what the hosts had been telling the audience all along: The investigation was a deep-state coup by the Democrats, helped along by mainstream reporters who were deliberately misinforming the public. The Democrats and their allies in the press had failed to overthrow Trump this time, Fox’s hosts and their guests warned, but their efforts would only grow more intense in the coming months. “They need to be pummeled into the political dirt and become acknowledged as the minority they are,” Rush Limbaugh, the dean of the right-wing radio hosts, said on Hannity’s show. The 2020 campaign and the new era of the Murdoch dynasty had begun. April 3, 2019 April 3, 2019 April 3, 2019 An earlier version of this article incorrectly described the islands of Nauru and Manus. Nauru is independent and Manus is part of Papua New Guinea. Neither are part of Australia. Jonathan Mahler is a staff writer for the magazine who has previously written about the relationship between CNN and Donald Trump. Jim Rutenberg is the Times media columnist and a writer at large for the magazine, covering media and political organizations. Photo illustrations by Joan Wong Photo illustrations by Joan Wong



      By JONATHAN MAHLER and 
    
JIM RUTENBERG

APRIL 3, 2019
 
The Disney deal left the Murdochs with a media empire stripped to its essence: a hard-core right-wing news machine — with Lachlan in charge.
 

          
            Part 3: The New Fox Weapon
            
        
        The Disney deal left the Murdochs with a media empire stripped to its essence: a hard-core right-wing news machine — with Lachlan in charge.
          
       By JONATHAN MAHLER and JIM RUTENBERG APRIL 3, 2019 This is Part 3 of a three-part story. Go back and read Part 1 and Part 2. It was in the midst of this moment — the biggest deal of his career — that the 86-year-old Murdoch tripped on his way to the bathroom on Lachlan’s yacht and had to be transported to Los Angeles. With their father laid up at the Ronald Reagan U.C.L.A. Medical Center at the start of 2018, Murdoch’s children descended on Los Angeles, unsure if this would be the end. Lachlan and his wife, Sarah, met them at the hospital. Elisabeth and her husband, Keith Tyson, came from London, James and Kathryn from New York. Murdoch’s surgery was successful. Not long after his children arrived, his condition stabilized. Following his near-death experience, Murdoch joked that he did not realize how serious his condition was until he had seen all his children gathered around his hospital bed. Murdoch would be laid up for the next few months but still in command, running things from his bedroom at Moraga. In an email to his senior management leaked to Vanity Fair’s Gabriel Sherman, he described the incident as “a sailing accident” and said that he would be working at home for a little while. “In the meantime,” Murdoch wrote, “you’ll be hearing from me by email, phone and text!” The negotiations continued. As they did, Lachlan and James adjusted to their new realities. Unable to secure a job at Disney that he wanted, and wary of its aggressively safe and hierarchical culture, James decided in the winter that he would not try to follow the family’s assets to their new home, according to three people who are close to him. Lachlan would take over what was left of the Murdoch empire without interference from his brother. In early June 2018, before the final terms were settled, another bidder emerged. Brian Roberts, the chief executive of Comcast, offered Murdoch $65 billion for 21st Century Fox, $12.6 billion more than Disney was prepared to pay. Murdoch didn’t want to sell to Comcast, according to three people familiar with his thinking. He preferred Disney for a variety of reasons, including his personal admiration for Iger, whom he viewed as a risk-taking leader in his own image. What’s more, the Comcast offer was all cash, which would create a big tax burden for Murdoch. But Murdoch did like the prospect of a bidding war. And he had a potential path to securing both a higher price and his preferred buyer in the Justice Department’s ongoing lawsuit to block a proposed merger between AT&T and Time Warner. Comcast’s interest in 21st Century Fox allowed Murdoch to drive up Disney’s purchase price to $71.3 billion. Iger and his team delivered what they hoped would be their final offer personally to Murdoch in London, traveling through Ireland because they were worried that Comcast might be tracking the movement of private planes flying in and out of London from the United States. Murdoch had Disney on the hook. His back now healed, Murdoch attended the Allen & Company media conference in Sun Valley, Idaho, in July 2018. With Roberts and Iger nearby, he seemed exhilarated; once again, he was in the middle of the action. The problem for Murdoch was that if Comcast made another counteroffer, he might have a fiduciary responsibility to present the offer to his board, and it might accept it, absent extenuating circumstances. He didn’t want his stalking horse to overtake his favorite. [Read 6 takeaways from this story.] The Trump Justice Department came to Murdoch’s rescue, appealing a federal court ruling in the AT&T and Time Warner case. On its face, the lawsuit had nothing to do with Comcast, but because the company had its own history of tangles with government regulators, the appeal would give Murdoch the cover he needed to accept Iger’s latest bid: Comcast now looked risky. There is no evidence that the Justice Department factored Murdoch’s interests into its decision-making process; nevertheless, he had gotten another $20 billion for his company while still selling to his preferred suitor. When the deal was finalized, Murdoch would personally make roughly $4 billion, bringing his net worth to $18 billion. All six of his children would receive $2 billion each. Lachlan and James would get even more — an additional $20 million in Disney stock, plus golden parachutes worth about $70 million each. Yet neither one was getting what he had really wanted. Media empires are built on the foresight and audacity of their leaders, their ability to anticipate and embrace sudden changes in an industry that’s constantly evolving. But they are also built on something far more mundane: government regulations. More than anything, it’s the moving of lines, the lifting of caps and the rewriting of rules that enable moguls to transform businesses into empires. These decisions are invariably opaque, the product of a labyrinthine bureaucratic process and the inherently subjective definition of what’s in the public interest. Under President Trump, these decisions have almost always broken Murdoch’s way. The Time Warner-AT&T deal was itself a good example of the ambiguities of this bureaucratic process. It worked out perfectly for Murdoch, but Trump had his own reason to try to block the acquisition: Time Warner was the owner of CNN, with which he was constantly feuding. He called it a “a deal that’s not good for the country,” and privately urged his chief economics adviser, Gary Cohn, to stop it, according to two people who were told about the conversation. (The exchange was first reported in The New Yorker.) Deals like this, a “vertical merger” between two companies in separate businesses, rarely face antitrust scrutiny. And yet Trump’s Department of Justice sued to prevent it, the first time the federal government had taken such a step in 40 years. The Justice Department antitrust enforcer who filed the government’s lawsuit against the deal, Makan Delrahim, was in fact on record saying earlier that he didn’t see it “as a major antitrust problem.” And yet when a federal judge, Richard Leon, dismissed the Justice Department’s case, calling one of its key arguments “gossamer thin,” the government appealed, and just in time to stave off Comcast’s next bid for 21st Century Fox. The process had dragged on for more than two years. The speed with which Murdoch’s Disney deal was approved stood in stark contrast. This type of agreement — a “horizontal merger” bringing together Hollywood’s largest and third-largest studios — would give the combined company near-monopoly power to raise consumers’ prices and limit their choices. Such deals ordinarily invite strict government scrutiny. The Department of Justice approved it in just six months. (Fox executives credit the company’s thorough preparations for its speedy and successful review.) After calling Murdoch to ensure that the deal wouldn’t affect Fox News, Trump had applauded it: “This could be a great thing for jobs,” his press secretary, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, said when asked to characterize the president’s reaction to the agreement. Wall Street analysts predicted that the deal would result in thousands of layoffs. The ambiguities of the regulatory process were also evident in another deal with major implications for Murdoch’s empire. In the spring of 2017, months before Murdoch started negotiating with Iger, the Sinclair Broadcast Group agreed to buy Tribune Media for $3.9 billion. Sinclair was already the largest owner of local TV stations in the country. It was also overwhelmingly pro-Trump: Its local stations, many of which were in key swing states, provided Trump with positive coverage during the campaign — a result, in part, of a deal that Kushner had personally struck with Sinclair’s chairman, David Smith. Murdoch had been concerned about the company’s steady growth. With Sinclair’s acquisition of Tribune, which was already in 39 percent of American households, the company would now be in more than 70 percent. What’s more, Tribune owned WGN, an unremarkable cable channel with unexploited potential: It reached nearly 80 million homes and could easily be converted into a right-wing national news network — an instant competitor to Fox News. In conversations with colleagues, Murdoch worried that Sinclair might hire O’Reilly as the marquee star of the new Fox rival. Sinclair seemed to have a friend and ally not just in Trump but also in the Federal Communications Commission’s chairman, Ajit Pai. Days after the election, when he was still just a commissioner at the agency, he appeared at a Sinclair executive retreat at the Four Seasons in Baltimore, according to a Politico story. After he became chairman in 2017, he effectively enabled Sinclair’s bid for the Tribune stations, easing limits on how many stations a single company could own. There was enough suspicion that Pai might be inclined to give Sinclair favorable treatment that the F.C.C.’s inspector general started an investigation into the commissioner’s relationship with the company. But then, in the summer of 2018, Pai basically blocked the deal, announcing that he had “serious concerns” about it. Sinclair officials said they were “shocked.” Once again, things had broken Murdoch’s way. The report cleared Pai of inappropriate conduct — either to help or hurt Sinclair — though it left some questions unanswered about Fox, like what Pai and Jared Kushner discussed during a conversation just before the deal was announced. Pai was asked if anyone from Fox News had tried to influence the ruling. He “responded in the negative,” the investigators wrote. In the middle of August 2018, Lachlan Murdoch emerged from his Gulfstream G550 in a T-shirt and jeans and climbed into a black Range Rover waiting for him on the tarmac. Australian paparazzi were waiting there, too, as they often were when Lachlan or his father arrived in Sydney. This time, they were both in town: Murdoch had landed two days earlier. They went for a company awards dinner, but they had another agenda as well. The night after his arrival, Lachlan invited a small group of Sky employees and managers to his $16 million mansion in Sydney for drinks. With its new prime-time lineup of hard-right opinion hosts, Sky had become a force in Australian politics. Its audience was still small by American standards, but it was the network of choice in the capital, Canberra, and it was finalizing a deal to expand its reach into the Australian Outback — demographically speaking, the equivalent of Trump country. It was a mirror of Fox News, with its fixation on race, identity and climate-change denial. Night after night, Sky’s hosts and their guests stirred anger over the perceived liberal bias of the media, “suicidal self-hatred” of Western civilization and the Australian equivalent of the Central American “caravans” that were dividing the United States: asylum seekers coming to the country by boat from Indonesia and Malaysia, many of them Muslim. Days before Lachlan’s arrival, a national neo-Nazi leader, Blair Cottrell — who had recently been fined for “inciting contempt for Muslims” — appeared on one of the network’s shows. Cottrell had been interviewed on Australian TV before, but his deferential treatment by Sky caused a national outcry. Under gentle questioning, he called on his countrymen to “reclaim our traditional identity as Australians” and advocated limiting immigration to those “who are not too culturally dissimilar from us,” such as white South African farmers. (Sky apologized and suspended the program.) Inside Lachlan’s living room, the talk turned to national politics. “Do you think Malcolm is going to survive?” Lachlan asked his staff. Malcolm was Malcolm Turnbull, the relatively moderate Australian prime minister who took office a few years earlier. Inside the government, a small right-wing uprising had been brewing over his plans to bring Australia into compliance with the Paris climate accord. It is well established among those who have worked for the Murdochs that the family rarely, if ever, issues specific directives. They convey their desires indirectly, maybe with a tweet — as Murdoch did in the spring of 2016 when he decided to back Trump — or a question, the subtleties of which are rarely lost on their like-minded news executives. In the days that followed, Sky Australia’s hosts and the Murdoch papers — the newspaper editors had their own drinks session at Lachlan’s mansion — set about trying to throw Turnbull out of office. Alan Jones, a Sky host and conservative radio star, called for a party “rebellion” against him on his program. Days later, the Murdochs’ major paper in Sydney, The Daily Telegraph, broke the news that a leadership challenge was in the works. Cheering on the challenge, Andrew Bolt, the Murdoch columnist who was once convicted of violating the country’s Racial Discrimination Act, told his Sky viewers that Turnbull’s “credibility is shot, his authority is gone.” Peta Credlin, the commentator who was Tony Abbott’s former chief of staff, chewed out a member of Parliament for the chaos inside Turnbull’s administration. The Australian, the Murdochs’ national newspaper, was soon declaring Turnbull a “dead man walking.” Word got back to Turnbull about Lachlan’s remark to his staff. He knew that Sky After Dark had been becoming increasingly critical of him: Months earlier, an aide showed him a video montage of promotional clips from the network questioning his leadership of the country. “Is it always like this?” the aide recalled him asking. But he now believed that this tough coverage was part of a concerted campaign. One of his senior aides confronted the Murdochs’ Australian executives in a text that was shared with us. The Turnbull camp knew, it said, that “Lachlan had made it clear at the editors drinks on Tuesday night that he would like MT to get rolled.” Turnbull heard, too, that Rupert Murdoch was miffed at him because he had not reached out to him since he landed in the country, according to three former officials in Turnbull’s government. Turnbull’s chief of staff had been trying to set up a meeting with Murdoch; he now redoubled his efforts. Turnbull settled for a phone call, pleading with Murdoch to back off. “Let me have a look at it, and let me talk to Lachlan,” Murdoch said. “I’m retired. I’ll talk to Lachlan.” (Through a spokesman, Murdoch denied that he felt slighted by Turnbull.) Two days later, Turnbull’s right-wing opponents ousted him through a definitive intraparty vote, known in Australian politics as a leadership “spill.” Chaos ensued, creating round-the-clock political theater for Sky Australia, which logged its highest ratings in the network’s history. (The Murdochs have denied any role in the ouster.) It was always difficult to separate the personal from the financial and the ideological with the Murdochs. All appeared to be in evidence in their decision to turn against Turnbull. To begin with, he took office a few years earlier by ousting Lachlan’s friend Tony Abbott, and it was Abbott who helped lead the Turnbull uprising. Turnbull’s policies were also not perfectly aligned with the Murdochs’ interests. For instance, he had expedited the construction of the country’s national broadband network, which directly threatened the family’s highly profitable cable business by giving Netflix a government-subsidized pipeline into Australian homes. The small number of Australian media outlets that the Murdochs did not own portrayed Turnbull’s ouster as a Murdoch-led “coup.” Kevin Rudd, a former prime minister whom the family had helped push out of office years earlier, described Murdoch in an op-ed in The Sydney Morning Herald as “the greatest cancer on the Australian democracy.” Turnbull was replaced by the right-wing nationalist Scott Morrison, who quickly aligned himself with Trump. The two met in person for the first time in late 2018 at the G-20 summit meeting in Buenos Aires. “I think it’s going to be a great relationship,” Trump said afterward. With a national election scheduled for May 2019, Morrison quickly staked his party’s prospects on the polarizing issue of immigration, promising a new hard-line approach. It dovetailed with Sky’s regular prime-time programming. Andrew Bolt, who previously warned of a “foreign invasion,” said in one segment, “We also risk importing ethnic and religious strife, even terrorism,” as the screen flashed an image of Australia’s potential future: rows of Muslims on a city street, bowing toward Mecca. When the opposing Labor Party managed to muscle through legislation that would allow doctors to transfer severely sick migrants in detention centers on the islands of Nauru and Manus into hospitals in Australia, Sky Australia’s prime-time hosts went on the offensive. The third generation of the Murdoch dynasty was finally taking control. The Disney deal was still pending regulatory approval in a few countries — the two companies had overlapping operations in China, Mexico, Brazil and elsewhere — but Lachlan was already shifting to his new role as chairman and chief executive of the new Fox. The empire was much smaller, but in political terms, at least, it was no less powerful, and its direction was clear. Lachlan generally avoids on-the-record interviews, but now that he was taking ownership of the family business, it seemed appropriate to make at least one public appearance. He chose the New York Times-sponsored DealBook conference about corporate leadership. On Nov. 1, less than three months after the Australian “coup,” Lachlan appeared onstage in the Time Warner Center in Midtown Manhattan. Tieless, in a white shirt, a navy suit and his trademark black outback boots, he offered a selfless account of the Disney deal. “We immediately saw that this made a great deal of strategic sense,” he told his interviewer, the New York Times columnist Andrew Ross Sorkin. He asked Murdoch if there was any part of him that was disappointed at the prospect of the shrinking of his would-be empire. “Your first thought is shareholders,” Lachlan replied. During the brief Q. and A. that followed, Lachlan dismissed the critics of Fox News as narrow-minded. “No, I’m not embarrassed by what they do at all,” he said of the network’s prime-time hosts. “I frankly feel that in this country, we all have to be more tolerant of each other’s views.” In the days leading up to the conference, some Fox News hosts and guests had been moving ever closer to openly embracing the most bigoted sentiments of the white-nationalist movement. A few days before the anti-Semitic attack on a Pittsburgh synagogue that killed 11 Jewish worshipers, a guest on Lou Dobbs’s show had said that a migrant caravan headed to the United States border from Honduras was being funded by the “Soros-occupied State Department.” (The network apologized.) The shooter, according to a post he made on social media, had come to believe that Jews were transporting members of the migrant caravans. When Tucker Carlson came under fire for his increasingly pointed attacks on immigration — “We have a moral obligation to admit the world’s poor, they tell us, even if it makes our country poorer and dirtier and more divided” — he received personal text messages of support from Lachlan, according to two people familiar with the texts. The lines between Fox News and the Trump White House were continuing to blur. At Hannity’s urging, Trump hired the unemployed Bill Shine as his deputy chief of staff for communications in the summer of 2018, ushering in a new era of increased hostility between the White House and the mainstream media: Within days of his arrival in Washington in July 2018, Shine called the Fox control room to change an onscreen chyron about Ivanka Trump that he considered unflattering, according to a source inside Fox, who says his request was denied. Shine also barred Kaitlan Collins, a CNN White House reporter, from an event after she asked Trump several questions about Michael Cohen and President Vladimir Putin of Russia. Unlike his father, Lachlan did not have a long-term relationship with Trump, but he hired the former White House communications director Hope Hicks as the new chief communications officer for the new Fox. Hicks was only 29, but she was the rare member of Trump’s inner circle who left the administration on good terms, and she remained very close to the president, the Trump family and others in the White House. (Kushner has privately told people that he provided a reference for her to Murdoch.) Lachlan’s first initiative was Fox Nation, a subscription-only, on-demand streaming service started last fall for Fox “superfans.” It would be a platform for a new generation of Fox stars and viewers. One of its most prominent personalities was Tomi Lahren, a 26-year-old recent graduate of the University of Nevada, Las Vegas, who had built a large social-media following with bite-size quips; for instance, she referred to Black Lives Matter as “the new KKK” and to refugees as “rape-ugees.” Most of its shows would be live-streamed during the day, making it a convenient alternative to the network’s daytime news programming, which was too politically neutral for many Fox watchers. And because Fox Nation was on the internet, the content could be even less restrained than the network’s evening programming. In addition to opinion-heavy political coverage, there would also be lighter fare — such as a cooking show with the “Fox & Friends” host Steve Doocy — and “deep dives,” including a documentary about the former anchor of the CBS Evening News: “Black Eye: Dan Rather and the Birth of Fake News.” Lachlan’s longer-term plan was to take this undiluted, unchecked form of Fox News overseas. Roger Ailes once blocked Sean Hannity from hosting a Tea Party fund-raiser on his show. When Hannity and the Fox host Jeanine Pirro joined Trump onstage at his final rally before the November midterm elections, the old Ailesian concern that the network should keep at least some distance from its political allies had come to feel quaint. Hannity played to the crowd, referring to all the reporters in the press pen as “fake news” and praising Trump’s accomplishments. After a tepid rebuke from management for participating in the rally, he clarified his comments about the press: They were not intended to refer to Fox’s reporters at the rally, he said, just the rest of the media. At times, Fox News seemed to be dictating presidential policy, or at least channeling the base that appeared to control the White House’s agenda. In late 2018, Trump was heading toward a budget deal with the newly ascendant Democrats until guests and hosts across the network started shaming him, demanding that he not sign any government spending bills that didn’t include $5 billion for a border wall. “Don’t listen to squish advisers,” urged Pete Hegseth, a “Fox & Friends” host. He didn’t. He listened to Fox instead and shut down the federal government. It was the made-for-TV climax of a campaign started months earlier. And like the enduring paralysis of the British government and the political upheaval in Australia, it was the legacy of a single family that was now descending into a chaos of its own. Having spent almost his entire adult life trying to prove that he was worthy of running the Murdoch empire, James had finally broken with it. He struck out on his own at the end of 2018, setting up his own family office in a new building in Greenwich Village to manage his vastly expanded fortune and invest in technology start-ups. By now, he and his brother were barely on speaking terms. James had always accepted as a given the interlacing of politics and business that had built his family’s fortune. He had even practiced his own version of it, however unsuccessfully, in London. He had stayed with the company for more than two decades, to prove himself to his father and because of dynastic obligation. “I can’t leave,” he told a friend during the hacking scandal. “I was brought up to do this.” The bonds were not just emotional: His fortune was tied up in his holdings in the family business. In the end, his father had chosen Lachlan. The empire that James had long sought to run was being dismantled. Lachlan had won their lifelong competition to become their father’s heir, but then, what had he really won? To friends, James dismissed his brother’s new company as “an American political project.” But even now, James couldn’t fully distance himself from the new company: He was still holding a large chunk of its voting stock, and as long as that was the case, his fortunes would be tied to Lachlan’s “American political project.” He couldn’t cash out, because Murdoch had made sure that none of his children would be able to sell their voting shares to an outsider. And yet, as levers with which to influence the company, these shares were virtually useless because their father remained the controlling shareholder in the family trust. James saw only one solution. He would sell his stock to Lachlan and his father, and maybe his sisters would join him. What was once a complex family dynasty would become a simple hereditary monarchy. Elisabeth and Prudence enthusiastically agreed. Murdoch, too, was excited about the idea, seeing it as an opportunity to rid the company of an in-house critic. He urged Lachlan to do it: The two of them, father and son, would own the company together. The documents were drawn up, but in late 2018, given the chance to have the company to himself, Lachlan balked. (Through a spokesman, Lachlan said that buying out his siblings wasn’t financially feasible.) Had Murdoch won or lost? On the one hand, Murdoch had achieved everything he wanted. He had made all his children multibillionaires, while not only keeping the division of his company that was most dear to him but also passing on control of it to his favorite son. Everyone, Murdoch included, had thought Hillary Clinton was going to win in 2016, but he had made a bet on a different candidate — and the power of a countervailing historical force — and he’d been rewarded with ratings, money and access. And yet that bet had torn apart both his family and his company. What was left was not a sprawling media empire that contained all his ambitions, but a political weapon. James and Kathryn were planning to devote some of their fortune to try to neutralize that weapon. In early 2019, their foundation, Quadrivium, announced initiatives to defend democratic nations against what they saw as the rising threat of illiberal populism and to bolster voting rights. The Disney deal was scheduled to close in the spring. During the family’s final months as the owners of the storied 21st Century Fox, they attended the Oscar festivities one last time. It had long been an annual event for the Murdochs; in an earlier era, the family hosted a few events of their own, celebrity-filled parties at their Beverly Hills home. There was a brief but memorable exchange at the Vanity Fair dinner during the ceremony. In one sense, it was a recapitulation of the ideological conflict that was dividing both the Murdochs and the world. In another, it was just a family spat. When it came to the Murdochs, was there really a difference? At the Vanity Fair dinner during the ceremony, Kathryn was seated next to Jon Lovett, a former speechwriter for Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton and a host of the vehemently anti-Trump podcast “Pod Save America.” Lovett did not seem thrilled with his table assignment, but as he and Kathryn started talking, it quickly became clear that she did not share the politics of the Murdoch family business. The conversation inevitably turned to Fox News and the damage it was doing. Kathryn offered to introduce Lovett to the chief executive of the network, her brother-in-law, who was seated at a table nearby. Lovett initially resisted — “I don’t need to talk to this person. It’s not going to be pleasant for anyone” — but later in the evening, Kathryn brought them together. “Do you feel proud of what’s happening between 8 and 11 every night?” Lovett asked. “You think this is good for the world?” “Yeah, I think they’re doing a great job,” Lachlan replied. Then Lachlan threw the question back at Lovett: Were there any conservative voices he would accept on Fox? Before Lovett could answer, Kathryn interjected, ticking off a list of anti-Trump Republicans. Lachlan turned away and joined another conversation. On the morning of March 19, 2019, the new, streamlined Fox officially became a publicly traded, if Murdoch-controlled, company, with Lachlan as its chairman and chief executive and Murdoch as co-chairman. Its name was simply Fox Corporation. A week earlier, Fox News held its first “upfront” for advertising agencies, trying to reassure skittish ad buyers that the network represented a “safe” brand for their products, according to a report in Ad Age. There were videotaped interviews with Fox News viewers — “they deliver the news accurately and honestly” — and a panel discussion with Fox personalities, who expressed optimism about the state of the country and the network. “This is a great time to be an American,” Laura Ingraham said. “Pretty much right now, I don’t see how it can get much better than this.” In the 22-year history of the network, the Fox News Effect had never been more pronounced. A March study by Navigation Research, a Democratic firm, found that 12 percent of Fox News viewers believe that climate change is mostly caused by humans, compared with 62 percent of all other Americans. At the same time, 78 percent of Fox viewers believe that Trump has accomplished more than any president in American history, compared with 17 percent of other Americans. The same could be said of the more global Murdoch effect. Brexit-inspired chaos continued to rattle Britain. Both of Theresa May’s proposals to formalize the country’s break with the European Union were rejected by the British Parliament. The possibility of a “no-deal Brexit” — in which the country would simply crash out of the European bloc, quite possibly triggering a historic economic collapse — loomed. In late March, more than a million protesters took to the streets of London to demand a second Brexit referendum. With May’s fellow conservatives questioning her continued leadership of the party, a former Murdoch columnist, editor and friend, Michael Gove — now a member of Parliament — was being talked about as a possible replacement. Thousands of miles away, another consequence of the global ethnonationalist fervor that the Murdoch empire had amplified and mainstreamed was playing out in New Zealand, where an Australian white nationalist, Brenton Tarrant, stood accused of killing 50 worshipers at two Christchurch mosques on March 14. There was no direct connection between Tarrant and Sky Australia, but critics of the network quickly drew attention to its consistently anti-Muslim rhetoric. In an online comment, unearthed by the Australian Broadcasting Corporation, Tarrant had described Trump’s election as “one of the most important events in modern history.” He was also a fan of the white nationalist Blair Cottrell, whose appearance on Sky Australia over the summer caused American Express to pull its ads from the network. Following the massacre, a young Muslim employee of Sky News in Australia quit in protest. “Over the past few years, I was playing a role — no matter how small — in a network whose tone I knew would help legitimize radical views present in the fringes of our society,” she wrote in a post on the Australian Broadcasting Corporation’s website. In the United States, what remained of the Murdoch empire was already gearing up for the 2020 presidential election. One of its first steps was to bring The New York Post more in line with Fox News. The paper had long been Trump’s first read — it was delivered daily to the White House — but its coverage was not uniformly favorable. In January, the Murdochs brought back one of the paper’s former editors, Col Allan, to help run the paper. An old Trump golf partner, Allan had come up through Australia’s tabloids and has been described as “Rupe’s attack dog.” Jesse Angelo, The Post’s publisher — and James’s lifelong best friend — resigned shortly after hearing the news. Across Fox News, hosts treated the submission of the Mueller Report in late March as the end of a two-year witch hunt and the beginning of Trump’s re-election campaign. The probe had resulted in the indictments of 34 individuals; guilty pleas and convictions from five former Trump business associates or former campaign officials; and a number of ongoing state, federal and congressional investigations. But on Fox’s prime time, Mueller’s decision against bringing new indictments was portrayed as vindication of what the hosts had been telling the audience all along: The investigation was a deep-state coup by the Democrats, helped along by mainstream reporters who were deliberately misinforming the public. The Democrats and their allies in the press had failed to overthrow Trump this time, Fox’s hosts and their guests warned, but their efforts would only grow more intense in the coming months. “They need to be pummeled into the political dirt and become acknowledged as the minority they are,” Rush Limbaugh, the dean of the right-wing radio hosts, said on Hannity’s show. The 2020 campaign and the new era of the Murdoch dynasty had begun. April 3, 2019 April 3, 2019 April 3, 2019 An earlier version of this article incorrectly described the islands of Nauru and Manus. Nauru is independent and Manus is part of Papua New Guinea. Neither are part of Australia. Jonathan Mahler is a staff writer for the magazine who has previously written about the relationship between CNN and Donald Trump. Jim Rutenberg is the Times media columnist and a writer at large for the magazine, covering media and political organizations. Photo illustrations by Joan Wong Photo illustrations by Joan WongSupported by By John Koblin and Michael M. Grynbaum After a drawn-out negotiation period, NBC and Megyn Kelly have formally agreed to part ways. The network and the onetime cable news star reached a final agreement on Friday, nearly three months after she wondered aloud on-air why it was inappropriate for white people to dress up in blackface for Halloween. NBC and a representative for Ms. Kelly declined to reveal the details of the exit package. But according to two people familiar with the negotiations, Ms. Kelly was paid the outstanding balance on her contract, a figure that amounts to roughly $30 million. At the time of the separation, Ms. Kelly was in the middle of a three-year, $69 million contract with the network. “The parties have resolved their differences, and Megyn Kelly is no longer an employee of NBC,” NBC News said in a statement Friday night. Ms. Kelly last appeared on NBC on Oct. 24, when she apologized for her remarks at the start of “Megyn Kelly Today,” as the 9 a.m. block of the “Today” show was called during her 13 months on the program. In the 11 weeks since, while a lawyer working on her behalf and NBC negotiated the terms of her exit, she earned roughly $5 million. The ratings for the third hour of “Today” have improved during her absence, rising to roughly 2.9 million viewers, from an average of 2.4 million, according to Nielsen. [The many times Megyn Kelly became the story.] NBC hired Ms. Kelly away from Fox News two years ago. She drew big ratings at the conservative cable network, a key component of Rupert Murdoch’s media empire, as a sometimes prosecutorial prime-time host and achieved wider recognition during the 2016 presidential campaign. After making the move, Ms. Kelly, 48, was on a path to becoming a face of NBC. In addition to giving her a prominent slot on the “Today” show, the network made her the host of a new Sunday night news program. The plan also called for her to cover breaking news, politics and special events. But her time at NBC, which began on May 1, 2017, was bumpy from the start. On “Sunday Night With Megyn Kelly,” a show meant to challenge CBS’s “60 Minutes,” Ms. Kelly faced off against President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia in an interview that was widely criticized. And she became the scourge of parents of children murdered in the Sandy Hook Elementary School shootings when she interviewed the conspiracy theorist Alex Jones, who had falsely claimed the killings were a hoax. When the time came for her to join “Today” in September 2017, she sometimes seemed out of her element in the lighter and brighter realm of morning television. The network had revamped Studio 6A at its 30 Rockefeller Plaza headquarters, installing roughly 100 seats so that “Megyn Kelly Today” would have its own cheering squad. But with sharp questions and comments, Ms. Kelly offended celebrity guests like Debra Messing and Jane Fonda. Of more importance to network executives, she delivered middling ratings. By the time one of NBC’s biggest events came around — the 2018 Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea — Ms. Kelly was not among the correspondents sent to cover it. In May 2018, during the network’s annual presentation to advertisers known as the upfronts, there was another sign that her stock was down at NBC. From the Radio City Music Hall stage, the late-night host Seth Meyers mentioned the network’s broadcast of “Jesus Christ Superstar,” with John Legend in the lead role, before remarking: “You know a network has some range when they have a black Jesus and Megyn Kelly.” The joke was a reference Ms. Kelly’s much-criticized statements, made during a 2013 segment on Fox News, that Santa Claus and Jesus were white. And then came the Oct. 23, 2018, episode of “Megyn Kelly Today.” Ms. Kelly opened the show by announcing: “I have to give you a fair warning. I’m a little fired up over Halloween costumes this morning.” What followed was a segment out of the Fox News playbook: a round-table discussion of how multiculturalism was supposedly affecting the celebration of a national holiday. “But what is racist?” Ms. Kelly said. “You do get in trouble if you are a white person who puts on blackface on Halloween, or a black person who puts on whiteface for Halloween. Back when I was a kid, that was O.K., as long as you were dressing up as a character.” Those remarks were the last straw for NBC. Ms. Kelly offered an on-air apology the next morning. She also hosted a segment featuring two black panelists, Roland Martin and Amy Holmes, who explained the history of blackface, a demeaning practice with a history going back to 19th-century minstrel shows. By that time, Ms. Kelly no longer had the support of the network or her fellow “Today” hosts, with her colleagues Al Roker and Craig Melvin having criticized her on the air earlier that morning. At a staff meeting hours later, Andrew Lack, the chairman of NBC News, condemned Ms. Kelly’s remarks and made no mention of her apology. A number of guests scheduled for episodes of “Megyn Kelly Today” — as varied as the director Ron Howard and a Bergen County, N.J., medium named Craig McManus — pulled out of their appearances. NBC canceled “Megyn Kelly Today” on Oct. 26. Since going off the air, Ms. Kelly has come to the conclusion that her “blackface” comments were used as a pretext to get rid of her, according to a person familiar with her thinking. She has also kept up a social media presence, posting on her Twitter account a Politico column that defended the Fox News anchor Tucker Carlson from an advertising boycott. “Today” moved on without her. On Monday, a “Today” meteorologist, Dylan Dreyer, announced she would be a regular host of the third hour alongside Mr. Melvin, Mr. Roker and Sheinelle Jones. In the time since Ms. Kelly has been off the air, viewership totals for the hour have gone up 18 percent. Ms. Kelly’s former home, Studio 6A, has gone dark. Ms. Kelly grew up near Albany and worked as a corporate lawyer in Chicago before zeroing in on television. On a 2015 episode of her Fox News show, “The Kelly File,” she told the story of her career switch to her guest, Dr. Phil McGraw, the television host. As she explained it, she was watching him on an episode of “Oprah” in the early 2000s when she heard him say something that struck her: “The only difference between you and someone you envy is that you settle for less.” She left the law firm for an on-air job at an ABC affiliate. Not long after that, she joined Fox News, where she worked for 12 years. She took over a prime-time slot in 2013 and drew significant media attention during the last presidential campaign, when Donald J. Trump criticized her harshly after she was an unflinching moderator of a primary-season debate. In 2016, she published a best-selling memoir with a title that had its origins in the words Dr. Phil had spoken to Oprah: “Settle for More.” With her Fox News contract set to expire in 2017, NBC was one of several suitors. After signing the multiyear deal with the network, Ms. Kelly said a morning slot would give her the chance to host a “fun and uplifting” show, while also allowing her to have dinner with her children. As it evolved, however, “Megyn Kelly Today” was a stew of celebrity gossip, gritty crime stories, sexual misconduct discussions and cooking segments. The network television audience at that hour is more diverse than Fox News’s older, largely white viewership. And Ms. Kelly had trouble finding a sizable constituency among “Today” devotees. When NBC executives and Ms. Kelly’s lawyer started negotiating her departure, the man who had inspired her to go into television — Dr. Phil — signed a new deal with CBS Television Distribution that would keep him on the air through at least 2023.  

Supported by By John Koblin and Michael M. Grynbaum After a drawn-out negotiation period, NBC and Megyn Kelly have formally agreed to part ways. The network and the onetime cable news star reached a final agreement on Friday, nearly three months after she wondered aloud on-air why it was inappropriate for white people to dress up in blackface for Halloween. NBC and a representative for Ms. Kelly declined to reveal the details of the exit package. But according to two people familiar with the negotiations, Ms. Kelly was paid the outstanding balance on her contract, a figure that amounts to roughly $30 million. At the time of the separation, Ms. Kelly was in the middle of a three-year, $69 million contract with the network. “The parties have resolved their differences, and Megyn Kelly is no longer an employee of NBC,” NBC News said in a statement Friday night. Ms. Kelly last appeared on NBC on Oct. 24, when she apologized for her remarks at the start of “Megyn Kelly Today,” as the 9 a.m. block of the “Today” show was called during her 13 months on the program. In the 11 weeks since, while a lawyer working on her behalf and NBC negotiated the terms of her exit, she earned roughly $5 million. The ratings for the third hour of “Today” have improved during her absence, rising to roughly 2.9 million viewers, from an average of 2.4 million, according to Nielsen. [The many times Megyn Kelly became the story.] NBC hired Ms. Kelly away from Fox News two years ago. She drew big ratings at the conservative cable network, a key component of Rupert Murdoch’s media empire, as a sometimes prosecutorial prime-time host and achieved wider recognition during the 2016 presidential campaign. After making the move, Ms. Kelly, 48, was on a path to becoming a face of NBC. In addition to giving her a prominent slot on the “Today” show, the network made her the host of a new Sunday night news program. The plan also called for her to cover breaking news, politics and special events. But her time at NBC, which began on May 1, 2017, was bumpy from the start. On “Sunday Night With Megyn Kelly,” a show meant to challenge CBS’s “60 Minutes,” Ms. Kelly faced off against President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia in an interview that was widely criticized. And she became the scourge of parents of children murdered in the Sandy Hook Elementary School shootings when she interviewed the conspiracy theorist Alex Jones, who had falsely claimed the killings were a hoax. When the time came for her to join “Today” in September 2017, she sometimes seemed out of her element in the lighter and brighter realm of morning television. The network had revamped Studio 6A at its 30 Rockefeller Plaza headquarters, installing roughly 100 seats so that “Megyn Kelly Today” would have its own cheering squad. But with sharp questions and comments, Ms. Kelly offended celebrity guests like Debra Messing and Jane Fonda. Of more importance to network executives, she delivered middling ratings. By the time one of NBC’s biggest events came around — the 2018 Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea — Ms. Kelly was not among the correspondents sent to cover it. In May 2018, during the network’s annual presentation to advertisers known as the upfronts, there was another sign that her stock was down at NBC. From the Radio City Music Hall stage, the late-night host Seth Meyers mentioned the network’s broadcast of “Jesus Christ Superstar,” with John Legend in the lead role, before remarking: “You know a network has some range when they have a black Jesus and Megyn Kelly.” The joke was a reference Ms. Kelly’s much-criticized statements, made during a 2013 segment on Fox News, that Santa Claus and Jesus were white. And then came the Oct. 23, 2018, episode of “Megyn Kelly Today.” Ms. Kelly opened the show by announcing: “I have to give you a fair warning. I’m a little fired up over Halloween costumes this morning.” What followed was a segment out of the Fox News playbook: a round-table discussion of how multiculturalism was supposedly affecting the celebration of a national holiday. “But what is racist?” Ms. Kelly said. “You do get in trouble if you are a white person who puts on blackface on Halloween, or a black person who puts on whiteface for Halloween. Back when I was a kid, that was O.K., as long as you were dressing up as a character.” Those remarks were the last straw for NBC. Ms. Kelly offered an on-air apology the next morning. She also hosted a segment featuring two black panelists, Roland Martin and Amy Holmes, who explained the history of blackface, a demeaning practice with a history going back to 19th-century minstrel shows. By that time, Ms. Kelly no longer had the support of the network or her fellow “Today” hosts, with her colleagues Al Roker and Craig Melvin having criticized her on the air earlier that morning. At a staff meeting hours later, Andrew Lack, the chairman of NBC News, condemned Ms. Kelly’s remarks and made no mention of her apology. A number of guests scheduled for episodes of “Megyn Kelly Today” — as varied as the director Ron Howard and a Bergen County, N.J., medium named Craig McManus — pulled out of their appearances. NBC canceled “Megyn Kelly Today” on Oct. 26. Since going off the air, Ms. Kelly has come to the conclusion that her “blackface” comments were used as a pretext to get rid of her, according to a person familiar with her thinking. She has also kept up a social media presence, posting on her Twitter account a Politico column that defended the Fox News anchor Tucker Carlson from an advertising boycott. “Today” moved on without her. On Monday, a “Today” meteorologist, Dylan Dreyer, announced she would be a regular host of the third hour alongside Mr. Melvin, Mr. Roker and Sheinelle Jones. In the time since Ms. Kelly has been off the air, viewership totals for the hour have gone up 18 percent. Ms. Kelly’s former home, Studio 6A, has gone dark. Ms. Kelly grew up near Albany and worked as a corporate lawyer in Chicago before zeroing in on television. On a 2015 episode of her Fox News show, “The Kelly File,” she told the story of her career switch to her guest, Dr. Phil McGraw, the television host. As she explained it, she was watching him on an episode of “Oprah” in the early 2000s when she heard him say something that struck her: “The only difference between you and someone you envy is that you settle for less.” She left the law firm for an on-air job at an ABC affiliate. Not long after that, she joined Fox News, where she worked for 12 years. She took over a prime-time slot in 2013 and drew significant media attention during the last presidential campaign, when Donald J. Trump criticized her harshly after she was an unflinching moderator of a primary-season debate. In 2016, she published a best-selling memoir with a title that had its origins in the words Dr. Phil had spoken to Oprah: “Settle for More.” With her Fox News contract set to expire in 2017, NBC was one of several suitors. After signing the multiyear deal with the network, Ms. Kelly said a morning slot would give her the chance to host a “fun and uplifting” show, while also allowing her to have dinner with her children. As it evolved, however, “Megyn Kelly Today” was a stew of celebrity gossip, gritty crime stories, sexual misconduct discussions and cooking segments. The network television audience at that hour is more diverse than Fox News’s older, largely white viewership. And Ms. Kelly had trouble finding a sizable constituency among “Today” devotees. When NBC executives and Ms. Kelly’s lawyer started negotiating her departure, the man who had inspired her to go into television — Dr. Phil — signed a new deal with CBS Television Distribution that would keep him on the air through at least 2023.  

      By JONATHAN MAHLER and 
    
JIM RUTENBERG

APRIL 3, 2019
 
President Trump’s election made the Murdoch family more powerful than ever. But the bitter struggle between James and Lachlan threatened to tear the company apart.
 

          
            Part 2: Internal Divisions
            
        
        President Trump’s election made the Murdoch family more powerful than ever. But the bitter struggle between James and Lachlan threatened to tear the company apart.
          
       By JONATHAN MAHLER and JIM RUTENBERG APRIL 3, 2019 This is Part 2 of a three-part story. Go back and read Part 1. In a matter of months, Rupert Murdoch had married a former supermodel, led Britain’s historic vote to break with the European Union and played a pivotal role in the American election. He now had a close relationship with the British prime minister, Theresa May, and an even closer one with the incoming American president, Donald J. Trump. But his media empire was more vulnerable than ever. Netflix, Amazon, Apple and a host of other new technology companies were streaming content directly to consumers and were growing at unabated rates across the globe. It was an overwhelming existential challenge to legacy media companies like 21st Century Fox. Once viewed as a global colossus, Murdoch’s empire was now in danger of being too small. He desperately needed international scale to compete. The answer seemed obvious: The Murdochs had to take full control of Sky. With annual revenues of some $16 billion, Sky was the largest pay-TV provider in Britain and across Europe. The Murdochs currently owned only 39 percent of it, and that share already generated the company three times the revenue of Fox News. What’s more, Sky had its own 24-hour news channel in Britain, Sky News, which could be built into a global news network to take on the Murdochs’ longtime rival, the publicly financed BBC. For James, who would be leading the Sky acquisition, the potential deal also represented something more personal: an opportunity for redemption. He tried to buy Sky five years earlier, in part by forging a close alliance with David Cameron, then a Conservative member of Parliament who was eyeing the prime ministership. What began with Cameron’s dropping by a Murdoch family vacation near the Greek isle of Santorini turned into a mutually beneficial friendship between James and the candidate. The aims of both parties were clear. Cameron wanted the support of the Murdochs. James wanted Ofcom, the British regulatory agency that would rule on whether the Murdochs were “fit and proper” operators of Sky, out of his way. With the 2010 election approaching, Cameron publicly promised that under a Conservative government, “Ofcom as we know it will cease to exist.” Not long after, James summoned Cameron to the George, a private club in the Mayfair area of London, to tell him that The Sun would reverse 12 years of support for the Labor Party and endorse him. (James and Cameron have each denied that there was any quid pro quo for the endorsement.) But just as James was getting all of the pieces in place, the phone-hacking scandal broke. He and his father were hauled in front of Parliament, and James was forced to withdraw their $12 billion bid for Sky. Ofcom survived. [Read 6 takeaways from this story.] Lachlan and others inside 21st Century Fox were concerned about James’s leading this second Sky bid, given how closely associated he had been with the hacking scandal and with the family’s first failed attempt to gain full control of the satellite company. But James, who knew the company best, was adamant, and in December 2016, he struck a new deal with the owners of Sky. The lawyers for 21st Century Fox, Allen & Overy, sent a lengthy memo to Karen Bradley, Britain’s secretary of state for culture, media and sport, detailing why this bid was different from the earlier one. Not only had the Murdochs shut down The News of the World, the newspaper that had been found guilty of widespread hacking; they had also divided the empire into two different entities: News Corp and 21st Century Fox. The company that would be purchasing Sky, 21st Century Fox, had thus been separated from the family’s newspapers. Further, the lawyers wrote that the company’s culture had changed substantially since the hacking scandal: It “has adopted strong governance measures and controls to ensure it meets the highest standards of corporate conduct.” James expressed similar confidence on a conference call with Wall Street analysts: “We do think that this passes regulatory muster,” he said. One other factor made the proposed deal especially attractive. Thanks to Brexit, the Murdochs would be getting full ownership of Sky at the steeply discounted price of $14.8 billion if the deal went through. The British government was paralyzed, unable to reach an agreement to implement the break with the European bloc. Foreign companies were pulling out of Britain, destabilizing the country’s job market and the economy and, in turn, significantly depressing the value of the English pound — and with it, the price of Sky’s shares. All that needed to happen was for the government to approve the deal. With the Sky bid once again pending before Ofcom, James embarked on a campaign of contrition and humility designed to convince the British establishment that he and his family business could be trusted to own Sky. Even as James was pursuing his bid to take full control of Sky in Britain, the company’s Australian division — Lachlan’s domain — was closing a much smaller but still significant deal for the family to take full control of a different Sky subsidiary: Sky News Australia, which it jointly owned with two Australian media companies. It was the country’s only 24-hour cable news channel and an unexploited opportunity for influence on another continent. The Murdochs’ newspaper holdings accounted for some 60 percent of the Australian print market, and included the country’s sole national general-interest paper, The Australian. As the face of this continental newspaper empire, Lachlan wielded an enormous amount of political power in the country. Over the previous decade, Murdoch papers helped push out two different prime ministers, Kevin Rudd and Julia Gillard. When Gillard’s treasurer, Wayne Swan, was worried that the Murdoch attacks were hurting the national economy, he sought out Lachlan to make an appeal, Swan told us. Lachlan built alliances, too, drawing close to Tony Abbott, a member of Parliament whose right-wing politics and confrontational style had earned him frequent comparisons to Newt Gingrich. When Abbott served as prime minister, from 2013 to 2015, he would discuss legislation with the Murdochs’ editors — and occasionally the Murdochs themselves — before introducing it, the former editor of The Australian, Chris Mitchell, wrote in his memoir. Now Murdoch’s Australian empire was expanding into cable news. The country’s dominant broadcaster was the Australian Broadcast Corporation, a publicly financed institution modeled after the BBC. Its reporting was similarly straight and sober. Sky News Australia — which also airs in New Zealand — was, notionally, a competitor, but its audience was small, even by Australian standards. Still, the network offered Lachlan his own opportunity for redemption: After his split with his father, he presided over the implosion of the Australian TV network Ten. His failed efforts to save it included giving a reality-TV dance show to his wife and signing off on a weekly show for a controversial right-wing firebrand, Andrew Bolt. A columnist at the Murdoch-owned Herald Sun, Bolt had impressed Lachlan years earlier at a company retreat in Pebble Beach, Calif., when he aggressively questioned Al Gore after Gore presented his slide show on climate change. When Bolt was awarded his show on Ten, he was facing charges for violating the country’s Racial Discrimination Act by writing that light-skinned Aborigines were claiming indigenous status for personal gain. (Bolt was found guilty, and the publisher was forced to print a lengthy statement acknowledging the offense.)   With the acquisition of Sky News Australia, Lachlan would have a second chance. The Murdochs won full control of the network in December 2016, while James’s Sky deal in Britain was still pending. Sky News Australia’s programming had historically been politically balanced. But as the Murdochs’ takeover approached, the network began increasing the amount of right-wing commentary it broadcast during prime time. Not long before the deal closed, Lachlan’s old Ten host Andrew Bolt was brought in to do a nightly political program. Immediately after the purchase, Sky signed up as a host and commentator Caroline Marcus, a columnist for The Daily Telegraph of Sydney who had supported a ban on burkinis in France and lamented what she described as reverse discrimination against whites in cultural debates. Ross Cameron — a former member of the Australian Parliament prone to anti-gay slurs who later spoke at an event hosted by a far-right organization that describes itself as Australia’s leading anti-Islamic group — co-hosted a program called “The Outsiders.” He and his fellow hosts described themselves as “Trump’s Aussie mates” and half-joked that their show would provide “absolutely no balance whatsoever.” After one host, Mark Latham, was fired for making a series of offensive comments, including a homophobic remark about a high school student who participated in a video for International Women’s Day, he ran successfully for state office as a member of One Nation, the country’s far-right anti-immigrant party. Soon after Lachlan took over, an old political ally, Tony Abbott’s former chief of staff, Peta Credlin, became a prime-time host on Sky. Still closely allied with Abbott, she used her platform to argue that Australia should slow down its efforts to combat climate change, take a stricter line on immigration and resist the liberal drift of Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull, a bitter Abbott rival. Known as Sky After Dark, the opinion-heavy, almost-uniformly right-wing lineup was an entirely new phenomenon in Australian TV. Its nighttime ratings spiked as the network quickly became required viewing for the country’s political class. By the early months of 2017, Murdoch’s interim leadership of Fox News, which started with Ailes’s ouster before the election, was now beginning to look permanent. He installed beneath him two of Ailes’s loyal deputies: Jack Abernethy, who was in charge of operations, and Bill Shine, a close friend of Hannity’s who had been overseeing the opinion lineup but would now also run the entire news operation. Neither was known for his independent thinking. A rival executive called Shine “the butler” because of his uncanny tendency to appear at Ailes’s side to address his needs. Even as Murdoch was elevating Shine, numerous accusations — some of them in lawsuits against Ailes — were surfacing that Shine had protected and even enabled Ailes during his years of allegedly sexually harassing women at the network. (Shine has denied any wrongdoing.) After the election, Murdoch moved even more forcefully to support Trump. When Greta Van Susteren, a former CNN host and a somewhat ideologically unpredictable presence in the Fox lineup, left the network, Murdoch enthusiastically endorsed the idea of replacing her at 7 p.m. with Tucker Carlson — a conservative writer and a founder of the Daily Caller website who was earning praise from white nationalists heading into Trump’s election. Murdoch marked the occasion by taking Carlson out to brunch with Jerry Hall in New York. When Megyn Kelly, who sealed her fame by clashing with Trump, left Fox in early 2017, Murdoch opted not to replace her with another Trump antagonist. Murdoch also kept in close touch with the White House. He and Kushner had always spoken frequently, but now he was in regular contact with Trump too. Trump enjoyed getting his calls. As someone who prized wealth and power, Trump had long admired Murdoch; for decades, it had invariably been Trump who called Murdoch, asking for help. Now it was Murdoch reaching out to Trump on a regular basis. “Rupert, Rupert!” Trump would say, talking on the phone with Murdoch in the Oval Office, according to a former White House official who overheard the conversations. “You love the action, don’t you? You can’t get enough of this shit.” Trump was also spending a lot of time on the phone with Hannity, who regularly called the president after his show. Trump had often found him to be too much of a supplicant for his purposes: He preferred his more combative interviews with Bill O’Reilly, which he felt better showcased his pugnaciousness, according to a former White House official. But Trump appreciated Hannity’s loyalty. The Fox host had effectively been a member of his campaign team, for instance pressing Trump’s personal lawyer, Michael Cohen, to be on the lookout for former girlfriends and employees who might make trouble for the candidate ahead of the election, two people familiar with the interactions told us. (Hannity, through a Fox representative, denies having done so.) His show became a nightly hourlong campaign infomercial. Hannity’s audience was Trump’s most devoted base. In an interview with The New York Times, Ailes once described Hannity as presiding over a “segmented” show whose appeal was limited to hard-core conservatives. Now he was the network’s biggest star. He set the tone for the rest of Fox’s opinion lineup, which quickly became a nightly counterpoint to the mainstream media’s coverage of Trump. As a former media adviser, Ailes recognized that the Fox News brand depended on the perception that it was a credible alternative to the liberal media. He would even sometimes rein in his opinion hosts when their rhetoric threatened to undermine that perception. Ailes also thought that presenting a monolithic view night after night was bad television. He was careful to make sure that the network always had some hosts who challenged Republican orthodoxy at least occasionally. These were matters that did not appear to concern Murdoch. Some of the network’s news anchors could deliver at times stark counterprogramming to opinion hosts like Hannity. Shepard Smith became increasingly pointed in his critical coverage of Trump, expressing disbelief at the “lie after lie after lie” coming from the administration; the Fox anchor Chris Wallace emerged as one of the toughest interrogators of Trump surrogates and officials on television; and Bret Baier’s straight coverage regularly infuriated Trump. But the network’s prime-time lineup is its biggest draw, and by the fall of 2017, that lineup was notably more pro-Trump than it was under Ailes, with Carlson at 8, Hannity at 9 and the right-wing radio star Laura Ingraham at 10. They were joined, of course, by the morning hosts on “Fox & Friends,” the show with which Trump always started his day. Years earlier, when James was fighting in Britain for the first failed Sky deal, he expressed contempt for government meddling in the media’s affairs and impugned the nationally esteemed BBC as a “chilling” media monolith. “The only reliable, durable and perpetual guarantor of independence,” he said in a lecture at the annual Edinburgh International Television Festival, “is profit.” In the spring of 2017, as James made the rounds with civic and business leaders in London, he took a far more conciliatory tack. He praised the BBC and assured former critics that he respected Britain’s strict regulations designed to ensure impartiality in England’s news coverage. At an annual conference held by the influential media analyst Claire Enders, a leading critic of his first Sky bid, James professed an “aspiration for us to be better” and promised to “behave in the way that we imagined we would want to and be expected to in the future.” Even as James was in the midst of this campaign, the company’s behavior was once again threatening to jeopardize the Sky deal. In April 2017, The New York Times reported that the Fox News host Bill O’Reilly and the network had doled out some $13 million to address multiple complaints from women about O’Reilly’s lewd comments and unwanted advances and that Fox had nevertheless renewed his contract for $25 million. Ofcom was soon receiving submissions from O’Reilly’s victims. Lisa Bloom, a lawyer representing one of his accusers, drew a direct link between Fox’s sexual-harassment scandals and the phone hacking: Both, she wrote, revealed “a lack of oversight, intervention and decency.” After James and several other senior executives from 21st Century Fox were grilled about the company’s culture by Ofcom regulators in the agency’s headquarters overlooking the Thames, the Murdochs scrambled to protect their Sky bid. They quickly fired O’Reilly, giving him a $25 million exit package. When rumors started circulating that Ailes’s once-loyal lieutenant, Shine, might be next, Hannity tried to protect him, sensing that his old friend and ally was about to become a victim of the Murdochs’ broader global agenda: “Somebody HIGH UP AND INSIDE FNC is trying to get an innocent person fired,” he tweeted, presumably referring to James. Shine was pushed out, too. In June 2017, Ofcom finally issued its report on the acquisition: It recommended that the deal be reviewed by yet another regulatory body. The Competition and Markets Authority would investigate whether Sky would give the Murdochs too much influence over the British media. The decision set off still more scrambling. To prevent any potential problems with the British regulators, Fox executives directed a furious Hannity to dial down his coverage of the death of a Democratic National Committee staff member named Seth Rich, which had spurred wild conspiracy theories and wide public criticism, as well as an advertiser boycott. The Murdochs also pulled Fox News off the air in Britain, where it had been the subject of several formal complaints of “unfair and inaccurate content.” (A separate investigation by British regulators found that Sean Hannity and Tucker Carlson had violated British impartiality standards: Hannity for ridiculing critics of Trump’s proposed travel ban without presenting a full version of their views or giving them an opportunity to respond, and Carlson for allowing Nigel Farage to make baseless claims that British officials had failed to protect “thousands of underage girls” from rape and abuse by Muslims.)   In September 2017, James delivered the keynote address at the Royal Television Society’s annual convention in Cambridge, using the occasion to make the case for the Sky deal and to sketch out his vision for the future of the global media company that he still hoped to run. He ticked off some of 21st Century Fox’s better-known brands — National Geographic, FX, Fox Sports, Sky Atlantic — and described how these and other outlets had “explored the opioid epidemic, gender identity and race relations” and “told powerful stories of slavery in America, the rights of women in Pakistan and the coming and inevitable exploration of Mars.” Absent from his list, and from his entire address, was one of 21st Century Fox’s best-known brands, Fox News. In the question-and-answer session that followed, an interviewer speculated about why the deal was taking so long. “I wonder if the message that comes through,” she said, “is that you presided over this rotten culture at News International and, again, at Fox News, and that people just don’t trust you. Is that what you think the message is?” That November, a bipartisan coalition of British members of Parliament took their concerns about the deal to a hearing in Victoria House on Southampton Row, the headquarters of the Competition and Markets Authority. They were led by Ed Miliband, a former leader of the Labor Party and a supporter of antimonopoly media legislation who had tangled with the Murdochs a couple of years earlier, when The Sun fulminated against his candidacy for prime minister, dubbing him Red Ed and Shameful Mili. They highlighted Fox’s promotion of the Seth Rich conspiracy and its airing of false claims that there were zones in London controlled by Shariah law. If the Murdochs gained full control of the satellite broadcast company, the M.P.s warned, they could transform its 24-hour news channel, Sky News, into a British version of Fox News. The question of the Murdochs’ influence over the media led, inevitably, to the question of the Murdochs’ influence over the country’s politics. “I know Rupert,” Ken Clarke, a member of Parliament, said. “The idea that Rupert is interested in a detached influence in the politics of the countries where he owns his media — anybody who knew him, you could not put that proposition to them without them breaking into a very broad smile.” In January 2018, the Competition and Markets Authority issued its ruling on 21st Century Fox’s acquisition of Sky: Full ownership of the company would give the Murdochs “too much control over news providers in the U.K. across all media platforms (TV, radio, online and newspapers) and therefore too much influence over public opinion and the political agenda.” It was a full-blown repudiation, setting up a final ruling that no member of the Murdoch family should ever be allowed to serve in any capacity at Sky — not even on the company’s board. It would be an especially harsh blow to James, who was serving as Sky’s chairman at the time. For Lachlan, it was a validation of his view that James was the wrong public face of the campaign for Sky, reminding the public of the hacking scandal and all the hostility toward the Murdochs it had stirred up. For James, the failure of the deal was a bitter vindication of his view that his family’s empire could not survive its own politics and culture. In early August 2017, Rupert Murdoch invited Robert A. Iger, the chief executive of Disney, to Moraga, his $28.8 million Tuscan-style vineyard estate in the hills of Bel Air, and offered him a glass of wine. The two moguls commiserated about the threat they both faced from the new breed of tech giants and what they could do to confront it. Disney also wanted to get bigger. Talk about combining some of their assets soon evolved into something much more significant: a conversation about Iger’s buying 21st Century Fox, the Hollywood studio that Murdoch wrested away from the Colorado oilman Marvin Davis in 1985. For 65 years, Murdoch had been ruthlessly expanding his empire. He was now thinking about doing the most un-Murdochian thing imaginable: He was going to shrink it. It was, in a sense, an admission of defeat. Murdoch’s ambitions had been subverted, finally and definitively, by his own failings — the family squabbles, the reactionary drift of Fox News, the Sky News debacle. But he had a new plan. He would cleave off the Hollywood studio that was responsible for about two-thirds of the company’s revenues and keep his main tools of influence, his newspapers and Fox News. James would move on, perhaps following 21st Century Fox to Disney, and he and Lachlan would run the remaining leaner, scrappier company together like a pirate ship. The decision was driven not only by the imperatives of the business but also by those of the Murdoch family. Joint custody of the empire wasn’t working. It was easy for the company’s senior executives to see which one Murdoch preferred — Murdoch’s face would light up when Lachlan would roll his chair nearer to him at meetings — and they quickly learned which son to go to with questions and requests. (“And Lachlan?” Murdoch would ask, whenever executives told him that they had spoken to James about something.) As James saw it, his brother was mainly interested in the unique fringe benefits and trappings of power that came with the job. He bristled when Lachlan built a rock-climbing wall on an old soundstage on the studio lot and hired a private security guard to accompany him everywhere. Lachlan, meanwhile, chafed at James’s fixation on corporate governance, which he felt was inconsistent with the company’s swashbuckling spirit. The Trump presidency was also exposing a deeper divide between the brothers. James was becoming increasingly troubled by Fox News. He didn’t object to the idea of a conservative news network, but he did object to what he felt it had evolved into at certain hours: a political weapon with no editorial standards or concern for the value of truth and a knee-jerk defender of the president’s rhetoric and policies. After Trump issued his executive order banning immigration from some Muslim-majority countries in early 2017, James pushed his father and Lachlan to agree to write a companywide memo reassuring its Muslim employees in the United States and abroad. James wanted the note to forcefully and unequivocally establish their opposition to the policy and to tell employees who felt threatened by it that the company would do everything in its power to protect them. Lachlan wanted it to be less confrontational and to not specifically mention Trump or the Muslim ban, which Fox News’s opinion hosts were defending night after night. Even getting Lachlan’s approval for the watered-down version that ultimately went out was “like pulling teeth,” James would later say privately, according to people close to him. Months later, when Trump blamed “both sides” for the violence at a white-supremacist rally in Charlottesville, Va., saying that there were some “very fine people” among the white supremacists, Kathryn insisted that they write their own open letter of opposition, without consulting with his brother or father first. “If we’re not going to say something about [expletive] Nazis marching in Virginia, when are we going to say something?” she told James, according to a person familiar with the conversation. Kathryn had historically kept her complaints about the network and the business inside the family, in accordance with the unofficial Murdoch code of conduct. But Fox opinion hosts’ embrace of nativism and white nationalism during Trump’s rise had eroded her restraint. Her frustration with the family business occasionally broke through on her Twitter account. She wrote supportive replies to posts from the Parkland shooting survivor and gun-control activist David Hogg — who had been taunted by Laura Ingraham over his college rejections and was leading an advertising boycott against her show — as well as from Never Trump Republicans like Bill Kristol who had left the network. And she complimented a Washington Post opinion article that noted that the neo-Nazi website The Daily Stormer had praised Carlson for “covering all our talking points.” The resentment that had been steadily building between James and Lachlan over the past two and a half years exploded in the fall of 2018, as the Disney deal became a possibility, then a probability and then a reality. James instantly seized on the idea, seeing it both as a way out of the family business and as a possible route to the biggest job in the media. He started speaking with Iger separately over lunches and meetings, discussing among other things what role he might play at Disney. Iger was in his late 60s; his contract was set to expire in the summer of 2019, and the company had not yet named a successor. A top job in Disney’s corporate hierarchy could put James in the running to take over. It had long been his dream to run his family’s empire, but Disney, when combined with 21st Century Fox, would be more than three times its size — the largest media conglomerate in the world, one with no ideological baggage to prevent it from growing and evolving further. James immediately championed the deal during his conversations with fellow 21st Century Fox board members. Lachlan was furious. His father was talking about dismantling the empire not even three years after coaxing him back from Australia to run it, an empire that had taken a lifetime to build. He argued that 21st Century Fox was big enough to compete as it was. The smaller piece of the empire that he would be left with — a network with an aging audience in the increasingly anachronistic business of cable television — was hardly a growth business. As the talks with Iger progressed, Lachlan’s opposition hardened. “Why the [expletive] would I want to run this company?” he told people close to him. Lachlan’s anger at his father boiled over during a dinner in Manhattan in the fall of 2017, three people who were familiar with the incident told us. “If you take one more call on this deal, you will not have a son!” he threatened. “I will never talk to you again.” (Representatives for Murdoch and Lachlan denied that he made these threats.) Over the course of our reporting, we spoke to a dozen people with direct knowledge of the Disney negotiations. What emerged were two diametrically different narratives of how the next act in the history of the Murdoch dynasty unfolded. Those closer to James say that Lachlan saw his birthright slipping away and tried to undermine the deal, even encouraging a rival bid from a different company that wouldn’t buy as many of 21st Century Fox’s assets. Those closer to Lachlan say that James was pushing the deal forward to advance his own career ambitions and was ready to settle for less than they could get for their father’s life’s work. Lachlan’s perception was affirmed, they said, when his father told him that he had received a call from a banker on the deal, reporting that James was trying to make his future at Disney part of the negotiations. Murdoch personally assured Iger that it wasn’t. (People closer to James say that there was no attempt to make the deal contingent on his role at Disney and that his primary concern was reaching the best agreement for the family and the shareholders.) The family’s dysfunctional dynamics were readily apparent to Iger. Seeing James as a strong champion of the deal, he kept him close during the negotiations but never committed to offering him a specific, high-level position; publicly, he said only that he was considering the issue. Negotiations nearly fell apart in October, according to Securities and Exchange Commission filings, when Murdoch called Iger to say that Disney’s valuation of the company was “inadequate” and that talks should “cease.” But they kept talking, meeting in London — Iger had come for the premiere of Disney’s “Star Wars: The Last Jedi” — to iron out more details. On Dec. 13, 2017, they announced an initial deal valued at $52.4 billion. Accompanying the announcement was a photograph of Iger and Murdoch, their arms placed awkwardly on each other’s shoulders, standing on the rooftop of a London building, St. Paul’s Cathedral looming in the background. It was a peculiar image: the mogul who built the country’s most polarizing, rage-stoking political brand beside the one who presided over a media conglomerate whose very name was synonymous with equanimity and uplift. Inside the Murdoch empire, the incompatibility of Fox News and 21st Century Fox had long been a source of private complaint and ironic humor: “The Simpsons,” a Fox show, once parodied Fox News with a rolling news ticker featuring headlines like “Do Democrats Cause Cancer?” and “Study: 92 Percent of Democrats Are Gay.” Showrunners on the West Coast would press the Murdochs to get the network under control when a Fox News host would say something they considered offensive, for instance during the network’s coverage of the Charlottesville rally. But for many 21st Century Fox executives, the offenses had become a nightly occurrence during the Trump era, as the network’s opinion hosts fueled white resentment and anti-immigrant furor. Now, 21st Century Fox would be merged into a company that famously and assiduously avoided politics. As for Fox News, the network would have one fewer corporate impediment preventing it from giving its viewers what they wanted. Continue reading Part 3, when the Disney deal enriches the Murdochs and strips their empire down its essence: a hard-core right-wing news machine. April 3, 2019 April 3, 2019 April 3, 2019 An earlier version of this article misstated the given name of a media analyst. She is Claire Enders, not Alice. Jonathan Mahler is a staff writer for the magazine who has previously written about the relationship between CNN and Donald Trump. Jim Rutenberg is the Times media columnist and a writer at large for the magazine, writing about media and political organizations. Photo illustrations by Joan Wong Photo illustrations by Joan Wong



      By JONATHAN MAHLER and 
    
JIM RUTENBERG

APRIL 3, 2019
 
President Trump’s election made the Murdoch family more powerful than ever. But the bitter struggle between James and Lachlan threatened to tear the company apart.
 

          
            Part 2: Internal Divisions
            
        
        President Trump’s election made the Murdoch family more powerful than ever. But the bitter struggle between James and Lachlan threatened to tear the company apart.
          
       By JONATHAN MAHLER and JIM RUTENBERG APRIL 3, 2019 This is Part 2 of a three-part story. Go back and read Part 1. In a matter of months, Rupert Murdoch had married a former supermodel, led Britain’s historic vote to break with the European Union and played a pivotal role in the American election. He now had a close relationship with the British prime minister, Theresa May, and an even closer one with the incoming American president, Donald J. Trump. But his media empire was more vulnerable than ever. Netflix, Amazon, Apple and a host of other new technology companies were streaming content directly to consumers and were growing at unabated rates across the globe. It was an overwhelming existential challenge to legacy media companies like 21st Century Fox. Once viewed as a global colossus, Murdoch’s empire was now in danger of being too small. He desperately needed international scale to compete. The answer seemed obvious: The Murdochs had to take full control of Sky. With annual revenues of some $16 billion, Sky was the largest pay-TV provider in Britain and across Europe. The Murdochs currently owned only 39 percent of it, and that share already generated the company three times the revenue of Fox News. What’s more, Sky had its own 24-hour news channel in Britain, Sky News, which could be built into a global news network to take on the Murdochs’ longtime rival, the publicly financed BBC. For James, who would be leading the Sky acquisition, the potential deal also represented something more personal: an opportunity for redemption. He tried to buy Sky five years earlier, in part by forging a close alliance with David Cameron, then a Conservative member of Parliament who was eyeing the prime ministership. What began with Cameron’s dropping by a Murdoch family vacation near the Greek isle of Santorini turned into a mutually beneficial friendship between James and the candidate. The aims of both parties were clear. Cameron wanted the support of the Murdochs. James wanted Ofcom, the British regulatory agency that would rule on whether the Murdochs were “fit and proper” operators of Sky, out of his way. With the 2010 election approaching, Cameron publicly promised that under a Conservative government, “Ofcom as we know it will cease to exist.” Not long after, James summoned Cameron to the George, a private club in the Mayfair area of London, to tell him that The Sun would reverse 12 years of support for the Labor Party and endorse him. (James and Cameron have each denied that there was any quid pro quo for the endorsement.) But just as James was getting all of the pieces in place, the phone-hacking scandal broke. He and his father were hauled in front of Parliament, and James was forced to withdraw their $12 billion bid for Sky. Ofcom survived. [Read 6 takeaways from this story.] Lachlan and others inside 21st Century Fox were concerned about James’s leading this second Sky bid, given how closely associated he had been with the hacking scandal and with the family’s first failed attempt to gain full control of the satellite company. But James, who knew the company best, was adamant, and in December 2016, he struck a new deal with the owners of Sky. The lawyers for 21st Century Fox, Allen & Overy, sent a lengthy memo to Karen Bradley, Britain’s secretary of state for culture, media and sport, detailing why this bid was different from the earlier one. Not only had the Murdochs shut down The News of the World, the newspaper that had been found guilty of widespread hacking; they had also divided the empire into two different entities: News Corp and 21st Century Fox. The company that would be purchasing Sky, 21st Century Fox, had thus been separated from the family’s newspapers. Further, the lawyers wrote that the company’s culture had changed substantially since the hacking scandal: It “has adopted strong governance measures and controls to ensure it meets the highest standards of corporate conduct.” James expressed similar confidence on a conference call with Wall Street analysts: “We do think that this passes regulatory muster,” he said. One other factor made the proposed deal especially attractive. Thanks to Brexit, the Murdochs would be getting full ownership of Sky at the steeply discounted price of $14.8 billion if the deal went through. The British government was paralyzed, unable to reach an agreement to implement the break with the European bloc. Foreign companies were pulling out of Britain, destabilizing the country’s job market and the economy and, in turn, significantly depressing the value of the English pound — and with it, the price of Sky’s shares. All that needed to happen was for the government to approve the deal. With the Sky bid once again pending before Ofcom, James embarked on a campaign of contrition and humility designed to convince the British establishment that he and his family business could be trusted to own Sky. Even as James was pursuing his bid to take full control of Sky in Britain, the company’s Australian division — Lachlan’s domain — was closing a much smaller but still significant deal for the family to take full control of a different Sky subsidiary: Sky News Australia, which it jointly owned with two Australian media companies. It was the country’s only 24-hour cable news channel and an unexploited opportunity for influence on another continent. The Murdochs’ newspaper holdings accounted for some 60 percent of the Australian print market, and included the country’s sole national general-interest paper, The Australian. As the face of this continental newspaper empire, Lachlan wielded an enormous amount of political power in the country. Over the previous decade, Murdoch papers helped push out two different prime ministers, Kevin Rudd and Julia Gillard. When Gillard’s treasurer, Wayne Swan, was worried that the Murdoch attacks were hurting the national economy, he sought out Lachlan to make an appeal, Swan told us. Lachlan built alliances, too, drawing close to Tony Abbott, a member of Parliament whose right-wing politics and confrontational style had earned him frequent comparisons to Newt Gingrich. When Abbott served as prime minister, from 2013 to 2015, he would discuss legislation with the Murdochs’ editors — and occasionally the Murdochs themselves — before introducing it, the former editor of The Australian, Chris Mitchell, wrote in his memoir. Now Murdoch’s Australian empire was expanding into cable news. The country’s dominant broadcaster was the Australian Broadcast Corporation, a publicly financed institution modeled after the BBC. Its reporting was similarly straight and sober. Sky News Australia — which also airs in New Zealand — was, notionally, a competitor, but its audience was small, even by Australian standards. Still, the network offered Lachlan his own opportunity for redemption: After his split with his father, he presided over the implosion of the Australian TV network Ten. His failed efforts to save it included giving a reality-TV dance show to his wife and signing off on a weekly show for a controversial right-wing firebrand, Andrew Bolt. A columnist at the Murdoch-owned Herald Sun, Bolt had impressed Lachlan years earlier at a company retreat in Pebble Beach, Calif., when he aggressively questioned Al Gore after Gore presented his slide show on climate change. When Bolt was awarded his show on Ten, he was facing charges for violating the country’s Racial Discrimination Act by writing that light-skinned Aborigines were claiming indigenous status for personal gain. (Bolt was found guilty, and the publisher was forced to print a lengthy statement acknowledging the offense.)   With the acquisition of Sky News Australia, Lachlan would have a second chance. The Murdochs won full control of the network in December 2016, while James’s Sky deal in Britain was still pending. Sky News Australia’s programming had historically been politically balanced. But as the Murdochs’ takeover approached, the network began increasing the amount of right-wing commentary it broadcast during prime time. Not long before the deal closed, Lachlan’s old Ten host Andrew Bolt was brought in to do a nightly political program. Immediately after the purchase, Sky signed up as a host and commentator Caroline Marcus, a columnist for The Daily Telegraph of Sydney who had supported a ban on burkinis in France and lamented what she described as reverse discrimination against whites in cultural debates. Ross Cameron — a former member of the Australian Parliament prone to anti-gay slurs who later spoke at an event hosted by a far-right organization that describes itself as Australia’s leading anti-Islamic group — co-hosted a program called “The Outsiders.” He and his fellow hosts described themselves as “Trump’s Aussie mates” and half-joked that their show would provide “absolutely no balance whatsoever.” After one host, Mark Latham, was fired for making a series of offensive comments, including a homophobic remark about a high school student who participated in a video for International Women’s Day, he ran successfully for state office as a member of One Nation, the country’s far-right anti-immigrant party. Soon after Lachlan took over, an old political ally, Tony Abbott’s former chief of staff, Peta Credlin, became a prime-time host on Sky. Still closely allied with Abbott, she used her platform to argue that Australia should slow down its efforts to combat climate change, take a stricter line on immigration and resist the liberal drift of Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull, a bitter Abbott rival. Known as Sky After Dark, the opinion-heavy, almost-uniformly right-wing lineup was an entirely new phenomenon in Australian TV. Its nighttime ratings spiked as the network quickly became required viewing for the country’s political class. By the early months of 2017, Murdoch’s interim leadership of Fox News, which started with Ailes’s ouster before the election, was now beginning to look permanent. He installed beneath him two of Ailes’s loyal deputies: Jack Abernethy, who was in charge of operations, and Bill Shine, a close friend of Hannity’s who had been overseeing the opinion lineup but would now also run the entire news operation. Neither was known for his independent thinking. A rival executive called Shine “the butler” because of his uncanny tendency to appear at Ailes’s side to address his needs. Even as Murdoch was elevating Shine, numerous accusations — some of them in lawsuits against Ailes — were surfacing that Shine had protected and even enabled Ailes during his years of allegedly sexually harassing women at the network. (Shine has denied any wrongdoing.) After the election, Murdoch moved even more forcefully to support Trump. When Greta Van Susteren, a former CNN host and a somewhat ideologically unpredictable presence in the Fox lineup, left the network, Murdoch enthusiastically endorsed the idea of replacing her at 7 p.m. with Tucker Carlson — a conservative writer and a founder of the Daily Caller website who was earning praise from white nationalists heading into Trump’s election. Murdoch marked the occasion by taking Carlson out to brunch with Jerry Hall in New York. When Megyn Kelly, who sealed her fame by clashing with Trump, left Fox in early 2017, Murdoch opted not to replace her with another Trump antagonist. Murdoch also kept in close touch with the White House. He and Kushner had always spoken frequently, but now he was in regular contact with Trump too. Trump enjoyed getting his calls. As someone who prized wealth and power, Trump had long admired Murdoch; for decades, it had invariably been Trump who called Murdoch, asking for help. Now it was Murdoch reaching out to Trump on a regular basis. “Rupert, Rupert!” Trump would say, talking on the phone with Murdoch in the Oval Office, according to a former White House official who overheard the conversations. “You love the action, don’t you? You can’t get enough of this shit.” Trump was also spending a lot of time on the phone with Hannity, who regularly called the president after his show. Trump had often found him to be too much of a supplicant for his purposes: He preferred his more combative interviews with Bill O’Reilly, which he felt better showcased his pugnaciousness, according to a former White House official. But Trump appreciated Hannity’s loyalty. The Fox host had effectively been a member of his campaign team, for instance pressing Trump’s personal lawyer, Michael Cohen, to be on the lookout for former girlfriends and employees who might make trouble for the candidate ahead of the election, two people familiar with the interactions told us. (Hannity, through a Fox representative, denies having done so.) His show became a nightly hourlong campaign infomercial. Hannity’s audience was Trump’s most devoted base. In an interview with The New York Times, Ailes once described Hannity as presiding over a “segmented” show whose appeal was limited to hard-core conservatives. Now he was the network’s biggest star. He set the tone for the rest of Fox’s opinion lineup, which quickly became a nightly counterpoint to the mainstream media’s coverage of Trump. As a former media adviser, Ailes recognized that the Fox News brand depended on the perception that it was a credible alternative to the liberal media. He would even sometimes rein in his opinion hosts when their rhetoric threatened to undermine that perception. Ailes also thought that presenting a monolithic view night after night was bad television. He was careful to make sure that the network always had some hosts who challenged Republican orthodoxy at least occasionally. These were matters that did not appear to concern Murdoch. Some of the network’s news anchors could deliver at times stark counterprogramming to opinion hosts like Hannity. Shepard Smith became increasingly pointed in his critical coverage of Trump, expressing disbelief at the “lie after lie after lie” coming from the administration; the Fox anchor Chris Wallace emerged as one of the toughest interrogators of Trump surrogates and officials on television; and Bret Baier’s straight coverage regularly infuriated Trump. But the network’s prime-time lineup is its biggest draw, and by the fall of 2017, that lineup was notably more pro-Trump than it was under Ailes, with Carlson at 8, Hannity at 9 and the right-wing radio star Laura Ingraham at 10. They were joined, of course, by the morning hosts on “Fox & Friends,” the show with which Trump always started his day. Years earlier, when James was fighting in Britain for the first failed Sky deal, he expressed contempt for government meddling in the media’s affairs and impugned the nationally esteemed BBC as a “chilling” media monolith. “The only reliable, durable and perpetual guarantor of independence,” he said in a lecture at the annual Edinburgh International Television Festival, “is profit.” In the spring of 2017, as James made the rounds with civic and business leaders in London, he took a far more conciliatory tack. He praised the BBC and assured former critics that he respected Britain’s strict regulations designed to ensure impartiality in England’s news coverage. At an annual conference held by the influential media analyst Claire Enders, a leading critic of his first Sky bid, James professed an “aspiration for us to be better” and promised to “behave in the way that we imagined we would want to and be expected to in the future.” Even as James was in the midst of this campaign, the company’s behavior was once again threatening to jeopardize the Sky deal. In April 2017, The New York Times reported that the Fox News host Bill O’Reilly and the network had doled out some $13 million to address multiple complaints from women about O’Reilly’s lewd comments and unwanted advances and that Fox had nevertheless renewed his contract for $25 million. Ofcom was soon receiving submissions from O’Reilly’s victims. Lisa Bloom, a lawyer representing one of his accusers, drew a direct link between Fox’s sexual-harassment scandals and the phone hacking: Both, she wrote, revealed “a lack of oversight, intervention and decency.” After James and several other senior executives from 21st Century Fox were grilled about the company’s culture by Ofcom regulators in the agency’s headquarters overlooking the Thames, the Murdochs scrambled to protect their Sky bid. They quickly fired O’Reilly, giving him a $25 million exit package. When rumors started circulating that Ailes’s once-loyal lieutenant, Shine, might be next, Hannity tried to protect him, sensing that his old friend and ally was about to become a victim of the Murdochs’ broader global agenda: “Somebody HIGH UP AND INSIDE FNC is trying to get an innocent person fired,” he tweeted, presumably referring to James. Shine was pushed out, too. In June 2017, Ofcom finally issued its report on the acquisition: It recommended that the deal be reviewed by yet another regulatory body. The Competition and Markets Authority would investigate whether Sky would give the Murdochs too much influence over the British media. The decision set off still more scrambling. To prevent any potential problems with the British regulators, Fox executives directed a furious Hannity to dial down his coverage of the death of a Democratic National Committee staff member named Seth Rich, which had spurred wild conspiracy theories and wide public criticism, as well as an advertiser boycott. The Murdochs also pulled Fox News off the air in Britain, where it had been the subject of several formal complaints of “unfair and inaccurate content.” (A separate investigation by British regulators found that Sean Hannity and Tucker Carlson had violated British impartiality standards: Hannity for ridiculing critics of Trump’s proposed travel ban without presenting a full version of their views or giving them an opportunity to respond, and Carlson for allowing Nigel Farage to make baseless claims that British officials had failed to protect “thousands of underage girls” from rape and abuse by Muslims.)   In September 2017, James delivered the keynote address at the Royal Television Society’s annual convention in Cambridge, using the occasion to make the case for the Sky deal and to sketch out his vision for the future of the global media company that he still hoped to run. He ticked off some of 21st Century Fox’s better-known brands — National Geographic, FX, Fox Sports, Sky Atlantic — and described how these and other outlets had “explored the opioid epidemic, gender identity and race relations” and “told powerful stories of slavery in America, the rights of women in Pakistan and the coming and inevitable exploration of Mars.” Absent from his list, and from his entire address, was one of 21st Century Fox’s best-known brands, Fox News. In the question-and-answer session that followed, an interviewer speculated about why the deal was taking so long. “I wonder if the message that comes through,” she said, “is that you presided over this rotten culture at News International and, again, at Fox News, and that people just don’t trust you. Is that what you think the message is?” That November, a bipartisan coalition of British members of Parliament took their concerns about the deal to a hearing in Victoria House on Southampton Row, the headquarters of the Competition and Markets Authority. They were led by Ed Miliband, a former leader of the Labor Party and a supporter of antimonopoly media legislation who had tangled with the Murdochs a couple of years earlier, when The Sun fulminated against his candidacy for prime minister, dubbing him Red Ed and Shameful Mili. They highlighted Fox’s promotion of the Seth Rich conspiracy and its airing of false claims that there were zones in London controlled by Shariah law. If the Murdochs gained full control of the satellite broadcast company, the M.P.s warned, they could transform its 24-hour news channel, Sky News, into a British version of Fox News. The question of the Murdochs’ influence over the media led, inevitably, to the question of the Murdochs’ influence over the country’s politics. “I know Rupert,” Ken Clarke, a member of Parliament, said. “The idea that Rupert is interested in a detached influence in the politics of the countries where he owns his media — anybody who knew him, you could not put that proposition to them without them breaking into a very broad smile.” In January 2018, the Competition and Markets Authority issued its ruling on 21st Century Fox’s acquisition of Sky: Full ownership of the company would give the Murdochs “too much control over news providers in the U.K. across all media platforms (TV, radio, online and newspapers) and therefore too much influence over public opinion and the political agenda.” It was a full-blown repudiation, setting up a final ruling that no member of the Murdoch family should ever be allowed to serve in any capacity at Sky — not even on the company’s board. It would be an especially harsh blow to James, who was serving as Sky’s chairman at the time. For Lachlan, it was a validation of his view that James was the wrong public face of the campaign for Sky, reminding the public of the hacking scandal and all the hostility toward the Murdochs it had stirred up. For James, the failure of the deal was a bitter vindication of his view that his family’s empire could not survive its own politics and culture. In early August 2017, Rupert Murdoch invited Robert A. Iger, the chief executive of Disney, to Moraga, his $28.8 million Tuscan-style vineyard estate in the hills of Bel Air, and offered him a glass of wine. The two moguls commiserated about the threat they both faced from the new breed of tech giants and what they could do to confront it. Disney also wanted to get bigger. Talk about combining some of their assets soon evolved into something much more significant: a conversation about Iger’s buying 21st Century Fox, the Hollywood studio that Murdoch wrested away from the Colorado oilman Marvin Davis in 1985. For 65 years, Murdoch had been ruthlessly expanding his empire. He was now thinking about doing the most un-Murdochian thing imaginable: He was going to shrink it. It was, in a sense, an admission of defeat. Murdoch’s ambitions had been subverted, finally and definitively, by his own failings — the family squabbles, the reactionary drift of Fox News, the Sky News debacle. But he had a new plan. He would cleave off the Hollywood studio that was responsible for about two-thirds of the company’s revenues and keep his main tools of influence, his newspapers and Fox News. James would move on, perhaps following 21st Century Fox to Disney, and he and Lachlan would run the remaining leaner, scrappier company together like a pirate ship. The decision was driven not only by the imperatives of the business but also by those of the Murdoch family. Joint custody of the empire wasn’t working. It was easy for the company’s senior executives to see which one Murdoch preferred — Murdoch’s face would light up when Lachlan would roll his chair nearer to him at meetings — and they quickly learned which son to go to with questions and requests. (“And Lachlan?” Murdoch would ask, whenever executives told him that they had spoken to James about something.) As James saw it, his brother was mainly interested in the unique fringe benefits and trappings of power that came with the job. He bristled when Lachlan built a rock-climbing wall on an old soundstage on the studio lot and hired a private security guard to accompany him everywhere. Lachlan, meanwhile, chafed at James’s fixation on corporate governance, which he felt was inconsistent with the company’s swashbuckling spirit. The Trump presidency was also exposing a deeper divide between the brothers. James was becoming increasingly troubled by Fox News. He didn’t object to the idea of a conservative news network, but he did object to what he felt it had evolved into at certain hours: a political weapon with no editorial standards or concern for the value of truth and a knee-jerk defender of the president’s rhetoric and policies. After Trump issued his executive order banning immigration from some Muslim-majority countries in early 2017, James pushed his father and Lachlan to agree to write a companywide memo reassuring its Muslim employees in the United States and abroad. James wanted the note to forcefully and unequivocally establish their opposition to the policy and to tell employees who felt threatened by it that the company would do everything in its power to protect them. Lachlan wanted it to be less confrontational and to not specifically mention Trump or the Muslim ban, which Fox News’s opinion hosts were defending night after night. Even getting Lachlan’s approval for the watered-down version that ultimately went out was “like pulling teeth,” James would later say privately, according to people close to him. Months later, when Trump blamed “both sides” for the violence at a white-supremacist rally in Charlottesville, Va., saying that there were some “very fine people” among the white supremacists, Kathryn insisted that they write their own open letter of opposition, without consulting with his brother or father first. “If we’re not going to say something about [expletive] Nazis marching in Virginia, when are we going to say something?” she told James, according to a person familiar with the conversation. Kathryn had historically kept her complaints about the network and the business inside the family, in accordance with the unofficial Murdoch code of conduct. But Fox opinion hosts’ embrace of nativism and white nationalism during Trump’s rise had eroded her restraint. Her frustration with the family business occasionally broke through on her Twitter account. She wrote supportive replies to posts from the Parkland shooting survivor and gun-control activist David Hogg — who had been taunted by Laura Ingraham over his college rejections and was leading an advertising boycott against her show — as well as from Never Trump Republicans like Bill Kristol who had left the network. And she complimented a Washington Post opinion article that noted that the neo-Nazi website The Daily Stormer had praised Carlson for “covering all our talking points.” The resentment that had been steadily building between James and Lachlan over the past two and a half years exploded in the fall of 2018, as the Disney deal became a possibility, then a probability and then a reality. James instantly seized on the idea, seeing it both as a way out of the family business and as a possible route to the biggest job in the media. He started speaking with Iger separately over lunches and meetings, discussing among other things what role he might play at Disney. Iger was in his late 60s; his contract was set to expire in the summer of 2019, and the company had not yet named a successor. A top job in Disney’s corporate hierarchy could put James in the running to take over. It had long been his dream to run his family’s empire, but Disney, when combined with 21st Century Fox, would be more than three times its size — the largest media conglomerate in the world, one with no ideological baggage to prevent it from growing and evolving further. James immediately championed the deal during his conversations with fellow 21st Century Fox board members. Lachlan was furious. His father was talking about dismantling the empire not even three years after coaxing him back from Australia to run it, an empire that had taken a lifetime to build. He argued that 21st Century Fox was big enough to compete as it was. The smaller piece of the empire that he would be left with — a network with an aging audience in the increasingly anachronistic business of cable television — was hardly a growth business. As the talks with Iger progressed, Lachlan’s opposition hardened. “Why the [expletive] would I want to run this company?” he told people close to him. Lachlan’s anger at his father boiled over during a dinner in Manhattan in the fall of 2017, three people who were familiar with the incident told us. “If you take one more call on this deal, you will not have a son!” he threatened. “I will never talk to you again.” (Representatives for Murdoch and Lachlan denied that he made these threats.) Over the course of our reporting, we spoke to a dozen people with direct knowledge of the Disney negotiations. What emerged were two diametrically different narratives of how the next act in the history of the Murdoch dynasty unfolded. Those closer to James say that Lachlan saw his birthright slipping away and tried to undermine the deal, even encouraging a rival bid from a different company that wouldn’t buy as many of 21st Century Fox’s assets. Those closer to Lachlan say that James was pushing the deal forward to advance his own career ambitions and was ready to settle for less than they could get for their father’s life’s work. Lachlan’s perception was affirmed, they said, when his father told him that he had received a call from a banker on the deal, reporting that James was trying to make his future at Disney part of the negotiations. Murdoch personally assured Iger that it wasn’t. (People closer to James say that there was no attempt to make the deal contingent on his role at Disney and that his primary concern was reaching the best agreement for the family and the shareholders.) The family’s dysfunctional dynamics were readily apparent to Iger. Seeing James as a strong champion of the deal, he kept him close during the negotiations but never committed to offering him a specific, high-level position; publicly, he said only that he was considering the issue. Negotiations nearly fell apart in October, according to Securities and Exchange Commission filings, when Murdoch called Iger to say that Disney’s valuation of the company was “inadequate” and that talks should “cease.” But they kept talking, meeting in London — Iger had come for the premiere of Disney’s “Star Wars: The Last Jedi” — to iron out more details. On Dec. 13, 2017, they announced an initial deal valued at $52.4 billion. Accompanying the announcement was a photograph of Iger and Murdoch, their arms placed awkwardly on each other’s shoulders, standing on the rooftop of a London building, St. Paul’s Cathedral looming in the background. It was a peculiar image: the mogul who built the country’s most polarizing, rage-stoking political brand beside the one who presided over a media conglomerate whose very name was synonymous with equanimity and uplift. Inside the Murdoch empire, the incompatibility of Fox News and 21st Century Fox had long been a source of private complaint and ironic humor: “The Simpsons,” a Fox show, once parodied Fox News with a rolling news ticker featuring headlines like “Do Democrats Cause Cancer?” and “Study: 92 Percent of Democrats Are Gay.” Showrunners on the West Coast would press the Murdochs to get the network under control when a Fox News host would say something they considered offensive, for instance during the network’s coverage of the Charlottesville rally. But for many 21st Century Fox executives, the offenses had become a nightly occurrence during the Trump era, as the network’s opinion hosts fueled white resentment and anti-immigrant furor. Now, 21st Century Fox would be merged into a company that famously and assiduously avoided politics. As for Fox News, the network would have one fewer corporate impediment preventing it from giving its viewers what they wanted. Continue reading Part 3, when the Disney deal enriches the Murdochs and strips their empire down its essence: a hard-core right-wing news machine. April 3, 2019 April 3, 2019 April 3, 2019 An earlier version of this article misstated the given name of a media analyst. She is Claire Enders, not Alice. Jonathan Mahler is a staff writer for the magazine who has previously written about the relationship between CNN and Donald Trump. Jim Rutenberg is the Times media columnist and a writer at large for the magazine, writing about media and political organizations. Photo illustrations by Joan Wong Photo illustrations by Joan WongSupported by By Michael M. Grynbaum President Trump relishes the State of the Union address as an enduring television spectacle, and Tuesday’s edition had plenty in common with high-quality reality TV. There was audience participation, including a spontaneous round of the birthday song for an octogenarian Holocaust survivor (even Mr. Trump was caught by surprise). And there was a celebrity cameo, thanks to the astronaut Buzz Aldrin. By night’s end, the show had generated a Tumblr’s worth of GIF-able moments — not least the visage of the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, whose frowns, furrowed brows and occasional smiles functioned as a real-time guide to liberals’ feelings about the speech. Viewers even had a chance to meet the contestants for the upcoming season: The room abounded with prospective 2020 contenders, who seemed highly aware of their place on the prime-time stage. Aides to Senator Kirsten Gillibrand of New York quickly distributed a memorable image of the senator in the chamber, looking skeptical. “She already sent out a tweet raising money on that eyeroll,” the Fox News anchor Bret Baier noted dryly. The networks hustled to gin up suspense before the speech, which Lester Holt of NBC described as “under the shadow of another possible shutdown.” Margaret Brennan of CBS declared that “the state of our union is in limbo.” Jonathan Karl on ABC noted that “the majority of Democrats would not applaud as the president came in the chamber. That is just something you do not see in a State of the Union address.” [Here are four takeaways from President Trump’s State of the Union address.] The postgame analysis fell along the usual lines. On Fox News, the pundit Brit Hume declared that “people may remember this one,” and the host Laura Ingraham called the speech “pretty pragmatic — a lot for people on both sides of the aisle to really love.” Simultaneously, Van Jones of CNN called the speech “psychotically incoherent, with cookies and dog poop,” and on MSNBC, Rachel Maddow expressed horror that Mr. Trump had suggested that the investigations into his administration were hurting efforts at peace. “Deeply uncomfortable,” Ms. Maddow said. One ideological outlier was Rick Santorum, the former Republican senator, who on CNN called it “probably the worst-delivered speech I’ve seen Donald Trump give.” Chris Wallace, the “Fox News Sunday” host, said that Mr. Trump’s address “was quite effective as the opening speech for the 2020 campaign; I don’t believe it’s an especially effective speech in terms of trying to make legislative progress in 2019.” Megyn Kelly, the former Fox News anchor who parted ways with NBC last month after a rocky tenure as a “Today” host, commented on the proceedings on Twitter, weighing in on Senator Ted Cruz’s facial hair (“he looks good w/it”) and whether the president had snubbed Kim Kardashian when he introduced a woman whose commutation she had encouraged. (“She deserved a shout-out,” Ms. Kelly wrote.) As for the star, Mr. Trump offered up apocalyptic warnings about immigrant violence, sending fact checkers into a scramble. “There are certainly a lot of facts to check, which we will be doing over the course of the next several hours, and probably the next several days,” said the CNN host Anderson Cooper. [President Trump made a lot of claims in his State of the Union speech about immigration, abortion and more. Read our fact check.] Mr. Trump also had to think on his feet, especially during a moment when female members of Congress — dressed in suffragist white to protest the president’s policies affecting women, and gathered in one section of the House chamber in perhaps the broadcast’s most memorable visual element — burst into applause after the president praised the rate of female employment. (“The biggest unity came in an inadvertent moment,” George Stephanopoulos of ABC said afterward.) Briefly flummoxed, Mr. Trump smiled and quickly recovered. “Don’t sit yet,” he ad-libbed to the group. “You’re going to like this!” He then noted that the new Congress has a record number of women, drawing another ovation. Earlier in the day, Mr. Trump was in good spirits with the television anchors who joined him for a private lunch at the White House, an annual tradition. Over salad and chicken — Mr. Trump took his dressing on the side — the president laced into his political opponents, although he praised the political skills of Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York, whom he referred to by her nickname, “A.O.C.” The lunch was off-the-record, but multiple people in the room described the president’s remarks. At one point, according to one of the people, Mr. Trump warned the anchors not to leak the proceedings. He added, “I guess it’s a group of reporters. You can’t keep a secret.”   

Supported by By Michael M. Grynbaum President Trump relishes the State of the Union address as an enduring television spectacle, and Tuesday’s edition had plenty in common with high-quality reality TV. There was audience participation, including a spontaneous round of the birthday song for an octogenarian Holocaust survivor (even Mr. Trump was caught by surprise). And there was a celebrity cameo, thanks to the astronaut Buzz Aldrin. By night’s end, the show had generated a Tumblr’s worth of GIF-able moments — not least the visage of the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, whose frowns, furrowed brows and occasional smiles functioned as a real-time guide to liberals’ feelings about the speech. Viewers even had a chance to meet the contestants for the upcoming season: The room abounded with prospective 2020 contenders, who seemed highly aware of their place on the prime-time stage. Aides to Senator Kirsten Gillibrand of New York quickly distributed a memorable image of the senator in the chamber, looking skeptical. “She already sent out a tweet raising money on that eyeroll,” the Fox News anchor Bret Baier noted dryly. The networks hustled to gin up suspense before the speech, which Lester Holt of NBC described as “under the shadow of another possible shutdown.” Margaret Brennan of CBS declared that “the state of our union is in limbo.” Jonathan Karl on ABC noted that “the majority of Democrats would not applaud as the president came in the chamber. That is just something you do not see in a State of the Union address.” [Here are four takeaways from President Trump’s State of the Union address.] The postgame analysis fell along the usual lines. On Fox News, the pundit Brit Hume declared that “people may remember this one,” and the host Laura Ingraham called the speech “pretty pragmatic — a lot for people on both sides of the aisle to really love.” Simultaneously, Van Jones of CNN called the speech “psychotically incoherent, with cookies and dog poop,” and on MSNBC, Rachel Maddow expressed horror that Mr. Trump had suggested that the investigations into his administration were hurting efforts at peace. “Deeply uncomfortable,” Ms. Maddow said. One ideological outlier was Rick Santorum, the former Republican senator, who on CNN called it “probably the worst-delivered speech I’ve seen Donald Trump give.” Chris Wallace, the “Fox News Sunday” host, said that Mr. Trump’s address “was quite effective as the opening speech for the 2020 campaign; I don’t believe it’s an especially effective speech in terms of trying to make legislative progress in 2019.” Megyn Kelly, the former Fox News anchor who parted ways with NBC last month after a rocky tenure as a “Today” host, commented on the proceedings on Twitter, weighing in on Senator Ted Cruz’s facial hair (“he looks good w/it”) and whether the president had snubbed Kim Kardashian when he introduced a woman whose commutation she had encouraged. (“She deserved a shout-out,” Ms. Kelly wrote.) As for the star, Mr. Trump offered up apocalyptic warnings about immigrant violence, sending fact checkers into a scramble. “There are certainly a lot of facts to check, which we will be doing over the course of the next several hours, and probably the next several days,” said the CNN host Anderson Cooper. [President Trump made a lot of claims in his State of the Union speech about immigration, abortion and more. Read our fact check.] Mr. Trump also had to think on his feet, especially during a moment when female members of Congress — dressed in suffragist white to protest the president’s policies affecting women, and gathered in one section of the House chamber in perhaps the broadcast’s most memorable visual element — burst into applause after the president praised the rate of female employment. (“The biggest unity came in an inadvertent moment,” George Stephanopoulos of ABC said afterward.) Briefly flummoxed, Mr. Trump smiled and quickly recovered. “Don’t sit yet,” he ad-libbed to the group. “You’re going to like this!” He then noted that the new Congress has a record number of women, drawing another ovation. Earlier in the day, Mr. Trump was in good spirits with the television anchors who joined him for a private lunch at the White House, an annual tradition. Over salad and chicken — Mr. Trump took his dressing on the side — the president laced into his political opponents, although he praised the political skills of Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York, whom he referred to by her nickname, “A.O.C.” The lunch was off-the-record, but multiple people in the room described the president’s remarks. At one point, according to one of the people, Mr. Trump warned the anchors not to leak the proceedings. He added, “I guess it’s a group of reporters. You can’t keep a secret.”   Supported by Her remarks on blackface costumes back in October did not shock those who recalled her statements on the whiteness of Santa Claus and Jesus. And her encounters with certain high-profile guests didn’t help her standing at NBC. By Tiffany Hsu Don’t become the story.  That’s an adage in the news business that most journalists try to live by, even in a time that rewards self-promotion. And it’s a rule that Megyn Kelly flouted again and again.  While this tendency was not much of a factor in her previous job, as a prime-time anchor at Fox News, it created complications during her 18-month stint at NBC. The network canceled her show, “Megyn Kelly Today,” days after she suggested on air that dressing up in blackface for Halloween was appropriate for white people. Ms. Kelly’s comments, and the uproar that followed, felt familiar to many fans and critics. [NBC and Megyn Kelly part ways with the full $69 million from her contract.] Those who become stars at major broadcast networks have a rare talent for being interesting and innocuous at the same time. Ms. Kelly, a former corporate lawyer who made her name as a sometimes confrontational interviewer, struggled to walk that line. Here is a look at the times Ms. Kelly became the story. December 2013  On her Fox News show, “The Kelly File,” Ms. Kelly took issue with an essay in Slate arguing that the popular image of Santa Claus as a white man was due for a makeover.  “For all of you kids watching at home, Santa just is white,” Ms. Kelly said. Later in the discussion, she added, “Jesus was a white man, too.”  In the panel discussion that followed, she did not acknowledge research that traces St. Nicholas to a fourth-century bishop in what is now Turkey and scholarship that has long debated what Jesus actually looked like. Jon Stewart and Stephen Colbert, who hosted shows on Comedy Central at the time, led the rhetorical charge against Ms. Kelly’s remarks. “You do know Jesus wasn’t born in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, right?” Mr. Stewart said. May 2016  Ms. Kelly’s feud with Donald J. Trump — which broadened her appeal beyond her Fox News base — began in Cleveland during the first Republican presidential debate in August 2015. Before a prime-time audience, Ms. Kelly questioned the candidate about his history of denigrating women as pigs, dogs and “slobs.”  After the event, Mr. Trump added Ms. Kelly to his list of Twitter targets, saying she “really bombed” as a moderator. He also told an interviewer that, during the debate, Ms. Kelly had “blood coming out of her wherever” — a comment widely interpreted as a reference to menstruation. Mr. Trump refused to participate in a later debate that Ms. Kelly moderated in Iowa. The attention raised her profile but also made her the target of death threats, she later wrote in her memoir. Fox News stood by its host, issuing a statement that Mr. Trump had an “extreme, sick obsession” with her. After months of Mr. Trump calling Ms. Kelly “crazy,” “overrated” and “sick,” Roger E. Ailes, then the chairman of Fox News, tried to broker a truce between his star and the candidate at Trump Tower.  Weeks later, Ms. Kelly sat down to interview the presumptive Republican presidential nominee. But the tough questions went missing. Critics described the tone of the interview — part of a Fox News prime-time special that aired in May 2016 — as “crushed velvet” and “neither groundbreaking nor especially informative.” After the interview, Mr. Trump posted a supportive message on Twitter: “Well done Megyn — and they all lived happily ever after!” June 2017  When NBC hired Ms. Kelly, it planned to make her a force of its news division. Not only would she host the third hour of its morning franchise, the “Today” show, she would also host a Sunday night newsmagazine program meant to challenge “60 Minutes” on CBS. The debut episode of “Sunday Night With Megyn Kelly” had a big guest: Vladimir V. Putin, the Russian president. But during the one-on-one interview, Mr. Putin proved unwilling to offer up more than his presence, evading or delivering pat answers to Ms. Kelly’s questions about allegations of Russia’s interference in the American presidential election. After Ms. Kelly asked about possible communications between the Trump campaign and the Russian ambassador to the United States, he said, “That’s complete nonsense. Do you even understand what you’re asking?” Critics branded the interview as “boring,” a “lukewarm flop” and a “rough start.” The New Yorker said Ms. Kelly had been “out-manipulated.”  June 2017  The third guest for “Sunday Night With Megyn Kelly” was Alex Jones, the conspiracy theorist who founded Infowars. Before the episode aired, families of children and teachers killed in the 2012 shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn. — which Mr. Jones has called a hoax — pleaded with NBC not to give him publicity, especially in a segment scheduled for Father’s Day.  Before the interview, critics accused Ms. Kelly of being too cozy with Mr. Jones, especially after Infowars published audio of her cajoling and flattering him to do the interview by saying she did not want to portray him “as some boogeyman.” Mr. Jones also released a photo from the day of the interview that showed him and Ms. Kelly in a car. In the picture, she was smiling and wearing sunglasses. Parents of children killed in the Sandy Hook shooting asked NBC to spike the interview, and a Connecticut affiliate announced that it would not air the program. Ms. Kelly was also disinvited from a Sandy Hook charity event and accused by some viewers of infecting NBC with Fox News-style conservatism. Face to face with Mr. Jones, Ms. Kelly challenged him repeatedly and described his claims as “reckless accusation, followed by equivocations and excuses.” But by then the public relations battle had been lost. September 2017  With her Sunday night troubles behind her, it was time for the unveiling of Ms. Kelly as the host of “Megyn Kelly Today.” Her challenge? Prove to audiences — and the NBC executives who had given her a three-year, $69 million contract — that she could make herself at home in the bubbly environs of morning television. Her first guests were the creators and cast of the rebooted NBC sitcom “Will & Grace.” Debra Messing, a star of the show, seemed enthusiastic about promoting the return of the groundbreaking comedy — which broke taboos about the portrayal of gay characters in mainstream entertainment in the late 1990s. During the segment Ms. Kelly called out to a “Will & Grace” superfan who happened to be in the audience, inviting him to the stage of Studio 6A. The audience applauded as the beaming man received hugs from the sitcom’s stars. And then came Ms. Kelly’s question: “Is it true that you became a lawyer, and you became gay, because of Will?”  The suggestion that sexual orientation is a choice prompted many of Ms. Messing’s fans to criticize her participation on Ms. Kelly’s program, and the actress said on Instagram that her appearance with the show had been a mistake. “Regret going on,” Ms. Messing wrote. “Dismayed by her comments.” And despite a big promotional push, the show’s first week drew lackluster ratings. September 2017  Ms. Kelly’s first week on “Today” also included an awkward encounter with a Hollywood legend.  Jane Fonda assumed she was sitting down with Ms. Kelly to discuss “Our Souls at Night,” the film she had made with Robert Redford. But the host wanted to talk about Ms. Fonda’s plastic surgery.  When pressed, the actress fixed Ms. Kelly with a glare that later became a meme. “We really want to talk about that now?” Ms. Fonda asked. January 2018  Ms. Fonda continued to talk to other outlets about the interview, telling Variety that it “stunned” her and was “so inappropriate.” She even referred to it on the Jan. 16 edition of “Today,” drawing laughter from the hosts, Hoda Kotb and Savannah Guthrie. On Jan. 22, Ms. Kelly hit back, saying at the top of a three-minute segment that “it’s time to address the ‘poor me’ routine.” After telling viewers that she had “no regrets about that question,” she added, “Nor am I in the market for a lesson from Jane Fonda on what is and is not appropriate.” Sounding more like a Fox News pundit than a “Today” show host, Ms. Kelly went on to question Ms. Fonda’s patriotism. She made a reference to “Hanoi Jane” — a nickname attached to the actress after her 1972 visit to North Vietnam and the resulting photo of her seated on an antiaircraft gun, which Ms. Fonda has since called her biggest regret.  The actress “still says she’s not proud of America,” Ms. Kelly said, “so the moral indignation is a little much.” January 2018  When Ms. Kelly was in law school, she found herself gaining weight. Eager to slim down, she asked her stepfather to shame her whenever she went into the kitchen. “And it works,” she said with a thumbs-up gesture during a segment about a mother who posted photos of the svelte physique she was able to maintain while raising three young children. “What’s your excuse?” the mother added in a caption. Ms. Kelly went all in on the shaming regimen during her interview of the mother. “You should parlay the shaming thing into a professional business,” the host said. “Because some of us want to be shamed!” The comments did not go over well, with Meghan McCain noting on Twitter that fat shaming has “real-life ramifications.” “I still cringe when I hear a person attacked for his or her weight,” Ms. Kelly said on her show the next day. “Please know I would never encourage that toward any person. I’ve been thinking a lot about why I once encouraged it toward myself.” Tiffany Hsu is a breaking news reporter on the Business Desk. Before joining The Times in 2017 she covered economic news for The Los Angeles Times and earned an M.B.A. from Columbia University.  @tiffkhsu 

Supported by Her remarks on blackface costumes back in October did not shock those who recalled her statements on the whiteness of Santa Claus and Jesus. And her encounters with certain high-profile guests didn’t help her standing at NBC. By Tiffany Hsu Don’t become the story.  That’s an adage in the news business that most journalists try to live by, even in a time that rewards self-promotion. And it’s a rule that Megyn Kelly flouted again and again.  While this tendency was not much of a factor in her previous job, as a prime-time anchor at Fox News, it created complications during her 18-month stint at NBC. The network canceled her show, “Megyn Kelly Today,” days after she suggested on air that dressing up in blackface for Halloween was appropriate for white people. Ms. Kelly’s comments, and the uproar that followed, felt familiar to many fans and critics. [NBC and Megyn Kelly part ways with the full $69 million from her contract.] Those who become stars at major broadcast networks have a rare talent for being interesting and innocuous at the same time. Ms. Kelly, a former corporate lawyer who made her name as a sometimes confrontational interviewer, struggled to walk that line. Here is a look at the times Ms. Kelly became the story. December 2013  On her Fox News show, “The Kelly File,” Ms. Kelly took issue with an essay in Slate arguing that the popular image of Santa Claus as a white man was due for a makeover.  “For all of you kids watching at home, Santa just is white,” Ms. Kelly said. Later in the discussion, she added, “Jesus was a white man, too.”  In the panel discussion that followed, she did not acknowledge research that traces St. Nicholas to a fourth-century bishop in what is now Turkey and scholarship that has long debated what Jesus actually looked like. Jon Stewart and Stephen Colbert, who hosted shows on Comedy Central at the time, led the rhetorical charge against Ms. Kelly’s remarks. “You do know Jesus wasn’t born in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, right?” Mr. Stewart said. May 2016  Ms. Kelly’s feud with Donald J. Trump — which broadened her appeal beyond her Fox News base — began in Cleveland during the first Republican presidential debate in August 2015. Before a prime-time audience, Ms. Kelly questioned the candidate about his history of denigrating women as pigs, dogs and “slobs.”  After the event, Mr. Trump added Ms. Kelly to his list of Twitter targets, saying she “really bombed” as a moderator. He also told an interviewer that, during the debate, Ms. Kelly had “blood coming out of her wherever” — a comment widely interpreted as a reference to menstruation. Mr. Trump refused to participate in a later debate that Ms. Kelly moderated in Iowa. The attention raised her profile but also made her the target of death threats, she later wrote in her memoir. Fox News stood by its host, issuing a statement that Mr. Trump had an “extreme, sick obsession” with her. After months of Mr. Trump calling Ms. Kelly “crazy,” “overrated” and “sick,” Roger E. Ailes, then the chairman of Fox News, tried to broker a truce between his star and the candidate at Trump Tower.  Weeks later, Ms. Kelly sat down to interview the presumptive Republican presidential nominee. But the tough questions went missing. Critics described the tone of the interview — part of a Fox News prime-time special that aired in May 2016 — as “crushed velvet” and “neither groundbreaking nor especially informative.” After the interview, Mr. Trump posted a supportive message on Twitter: “Well done Megyn — and they all lived happily ever after!” June 2017  When NBC hired Ms. Kelly, it planned to make her a force of its news division. Not only would she host the third hour of its morning franchise, the “Today” show, she would also host a Sunday night newsmagazine program meant to challenge “60 Minutes” on CBS. The debut episode of “Sunday Night With Megyn Kelly” had a big guest: Vladimir V. Putin, the Russian president. But during the one-on-one interview, Mr. Putin proved unwilling to offer up more than his presence, evading or delivering pat answers to Ms. Kelly’s questions about allegations of Russia’s interference in the American presidential election. After Ms. Kelly asked about possible communications between the Trump campaign and the Russian ambassador to the United States, he said, “That’s complete nonsense. Do you even understand what you’re asking?” Critics branded the interview as “boring,” a “lukewarm flop” and a “rough start.” The New Yorker said Ms. Kelly had been “out-manipulated.”  June 2017  The third guest for “Sunday Night With Megyn Kelly” was Alex Jones, the conspiracy theorist who founded Infowars. Before the episode aired, families of children and teachers killed in the 2012 shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn. — which Mr. Jones has called a hoax — pleaded with NBC not to give him publicity, especially in a segment scheduled for Father’s Day.  Before the interview, critics accused Ms. Kelly of being too cozy with Mr. Jones, especially after Infowars published audio of her cajoling and flattering him to do the interview by saying she did not want to portray him “as some boogeyman.” Mr. Jones also released a photo from the day of the interview that showed him and Ms. Kelly in a car. In the picture, she was smiling and wearing sunglasses. Parents of children killed in the Sandy Hook shooting asked NBC to spike the interview, and a Connecticut affiliate announced that it would not air the program. Ms. Kelly was also disinvited from a Sandy Hook charity event and accused by some viewers of infecting NBC with Fox News-style conservatism. Face to face with Mr. Jones, Ms. Kelly challenged him repeatedly and described his claims as “reckless accusation, followed by equivocations and excuses.” But by then the public relations battle had been lost. September 2017  With her Sunday night troubles behind her, it was time for the unveiling of Ms. Kelly as the host of “Megyn Kelly Today.” Her challenge? Prove to audiences — and the NBC executives who had given her a three-year, $69 million contract — that she could make herself at home in the bubbly environs of morning television. Her first guests were the creators and cast of the rebooted NBC sitcom “Will & Grace.” Debra Messing, a star of the show, seemed enthusiastic about promoting the return of the groundbreaking comedy — which broke taboos about the portrayal of gay characters in mainstream entertainment in the late 1990s. During the segment Ms. Kelly called out to a “Will & Grace” superfan who happened to be in the audience, inviting him to the stage of Studio 6A. The audience applauded as the beaming man received hugs from the sitcom’s stars. And then came Ms. Kelly’s question: “Is it true that you became a lawyer, and you became gay, because of Will?”  The suggestion that sexual orientation is a choice prompted many of Ms. Messing’s fans to criticize her participation on Ms. Kelly’s program, and the actress said on Instagram that her appearance with the show had been a mistake. “Regret going on,” Ms. Messing wrote. “Dismayed by her comments.” And despite a big promotional push, the show’s first week drew lackluster ratings. September 2017  Ms. Kelly’s first week on “Today” also included an awkward encounter with a Hollywood legend.  Jane Fonda assumed she was sitting down with Ms. Kelly to discuss “Our Souls at Night,” the film she had made with Robert Redford. But the host wanted to talk about Ms. Fonda’s plastic surgery.  When pressed, the actress fixed Ms. Kelly with a glare that later became a meme. “We really want to talk about that now?” Ms. Fonda asked. January 2018  Ms. Fonda continued to talk to other outlets about the interview, telling Variety that it “stunned” her and was “so inappropriate.” She even referred to it on the Jan. 16 edition of “Today,” drawing laughter from the hosts, Hoda Kotb and Savannah Guthrie. On Jan. 22, Ms. Kelly hit back, saying at the top of a three-minute segment that “it’s time to address the ‘poor me’ routine.” After telling viewers that she had “no regrets about that question,” she added, “Nor am I in the market for a lesson from Jane Fonda on what is and is not appropriate.” Sounding more like a Fox News pundit than a “Today” show host, Ms. Kelly went on to question Ms. Fonda’s patriotism. She made a reference to “Hanoi Jane” — a nickname attached to the actress after her 1972 visit to North Vietnam and the resulting photo of her seated on an antiaircraft gun, which Ms. Fonda has since called her biggest regret.  The actress “still says she’s not proud of America,” Ms. Kelly said, “so the moral indignation is a little much.” January 2018  When Ms. Kelly was in law school, she found herself gaining weight. Eager to slim down, she asked her stepfather to shame her whenever she went into the kitchen. “And it works,” she said with a thumbs-up gesture during a segment about a mother who posted photos of the svelte physique she was able to maintain while raising three young children. “What’s your excuse?” the mother added in a caption. Ms. Kelly went all in on the shaming regimen during her interview of the mother. “You should parlay the shaming thing into a professional business,” the host said. “Because some of us want to be shamed!” The comments did not go over well, with Meghan McCain noting on Twitter that fat shaming has “real-life ramifications.” “I still cringe when I hear a person attacked for his or her weight,” Ms. Kelly said on her show the next day. “Please know I would never encourage that toward any person. I’ve been thinking a lot about why I once encouraged it toward myself.” Tiffany Hsu is a breaking news reporter on the Business Desk. Before joining The Times in 2017 she covered economic news for The Los Angeles Times and earned an M.B.A. from Columbia University.  @tiffkhsu Supported by By Gabe Cohn The first part of the much-anticipated Michael Jackson documentary airs on HBO. And, on NBC, “Good Girls” returns. LEAVING NEVERLAND 8 p.m. on HBO. In these #MeToo times, will the revival of conversations about Michael Jackson’s alleged pedophilia lead to a reckoning? This documentary by Dan Reed focuses on the accounts of Wade Robson and James Safechuck, two men who claim that Jackson sexually abused them for years when they were minors. HBO is showing the four-hour, two-part work over two nights — on Sunday and Monday. The second part will be followed by “Oprah Winfrey Presents: After Neverland,” a separate interview with the two men by Winfrey, which will air at 10 p.m. on HBO and OWN. In a recent article for The New York Times, Wesley Morris called the documentary “long but delicately, patiently done — and so quiet; you can practically hear yourself listening.” DIVIDE AND CONQUER: THE STORY OF ROGER AILES (2018) 9 p.m. on A&E.  Another complex legacy, that of Roger E. Ailes, the former Fox News executive, is the focus of the filmmaker Alexis Bloom’s work. The film looks at Ailes’s life — and, by extension, the creation of Fox News itself — with interviews with his peers and archival footage chronicling a career that helped create the images of former Presidents Richard Nixon, Ronald Reagan and George H.W. Bush. He also profoundly affected the way politics is discussed in America. Ailes’s career ended amid sexual-harassment allegations and played a role in furthering political divisions in the country. “You leave ‘Divide and Conquer’ energized and incensed, and with a grudging admiration for Ailes’s pugnacious instincts,” Ben Kenigsberg wrote in his review for The Times. GOOD GIRLS 10 p.m. on NBC. Retta, Christina Hendricks and Mae Whitman star in this comedy about three women breaking bad. They got into trouble in Season 1; now their misdeeds might be catching up with them. The first episode of Season 2, debuting on Sunday, involves the surfacing of evidence that brings them one step closer to discovery by the F.B.I. APOLLO 13 (1995) Stream on Netflix; Rent on Amazon, Google Play, iTunes, Vudu and YouTube. Between Todd Douglas Miller’s new documentary on Apollo 11 and the visual effects victory for “First Man” at the Oscars, America’s attempts to send humans to the moon’s surface have been getting an unusual amount of attention. Ron Howard’s space travel drama, which was nominated for nine Academy Awards in 1996 (it won two), is “absolutely thrilling,” Janet Maslin wrote in her review for The Times. It also popularized the phrase “Houston, we have a problem,” a variation on what was actually said (that would be “Houston, we’ve had a problem”). “It’s a small but important change,” Maslin wrote. “One more way that ‘Apollo 13’ unfolds with perfect immediacy, drawing viewers into the nail-biting suspense of a spellbinding true story.”

Supported by By Gabe Cohn The first part of the much-anticipated Michael Jackson documentary airs on HBO. And, on NBC, “Good Girls” returns. LEAVING NEVERLAND 8 p.m. on HBO. In these #MeToo times, will the revival of conversations about Michael Jackson’s alleged pedophilia lead to a reckoning? This documentary by Dan Reed focuses on the accounts of Wade Robson and James Safechuck, two men who claim that Jackson sexually abused them for years when they were minors. HBO is showing the four-hour, two-part work over two nights — on Sunday and Monday. The second part will be followed by “Oprah Winfrey Presents: After Neverland,” a separate interview with the two men by Winfrey, which will air at 10 p.m. on HBO and OWN. In a recent article for The New York Times, Wesley Morris called the documentary “long but delicately, patiently done — and so quiet; you can practically hear yourself listening.” DIVIDE AND CONQUER: THE STORY OF ROGER AILES (2018) 9 p.m. on A&E.  Another complex legacy, that of Roger E. Ailes, the former Fox News executive, is the focus of the filmmaker Alexis Bloom’s work. The film looks at Ailes’s life — and, by extension, the creation of Fox News itself — with interviews with his peers and archival footage chronicling a career that helped create the images of former Presidents Richard Nixon, Ronald Reagan and George H.W. Bush. He also profoundly affected the way politics is discussed in America. Ailes’s career ended amid sexual-harassment allegations and played a role in furthering political divisions in the country. “You leave ‘Divide and Conquer’ energized and incensed, and with a grudging admiration for Ailes’s pugnacious instincts,” Ben Kenigsberg wrote in his review for The Times. GOOD GIRLS 10 p.m. on NBC. Retta, Christina Hendricks and Mae Whitman star in this comedy about three women breaking bad. They got into trouble in Season 1; now their misdeeds might be catching up with them. The first episode of Season 2, debuting on Sunday, involves the surfacing of evidence that brings them one step closer to discovery by the F.B.I. APOLLO 13 (1995) Stream on Netflix; Rent on Amazon, Google Play, iTunes, Vudu and YouTube. Between Todd Douglas Miller’s new documentary on Apollo 11 and the visual effects victory for “First Man” at the Oscars, America’s attempts to send humans to the moon’s surface have been getting an unusual amount of attention. Ron Howard’s space travel drama, which was nominated for nine Academy Awards in 1996 (it won two), is “absolutely thrilling,” Janet Maslin wrote in her review for The Times. It also popularized the phrase “Houston, we have a problem,” a variation on what was actually said (that would be “Houston, we’ve had a problem”). “It’s a small but important change,” Maslin wrote. “One more way that ‘Apollo 13’ unfolds with perfect immediacy, drawing viewers into the nail-biting suspense of a spellbinding true story.”Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — U.S. Democratic presidential contender Bernie Sanders released 10 years of tax returns on Monday, providing details of his growing status as a millionaire fueled by a sharp jump in income from book royalties since his losing 2016 White House run. Sanders, a U.S. senator who routinely rails against the "millionaires and billionaires" he says have rigged the system to protect their wealth and power, had an adjusted gross income of $561,293 in 2018, $1,131,925 in 2017 and $1,062,626 in 2016, the returns showed. He augmented his Senate salary with book royalties in each of those years, particularly in 2016 and 2017 when he made more than $800,000 each year in royalties. Sanders has published three books since the start of his first White House run, including bestsellers "Our Revolution" and "Where We Go From Here." In 2014, the year before he launched his first presidential campaign, Sanders had an adjusted gross income of $205,271. Sanders had faced mounting pressure to release his taxes, with critics saying the democratic socialist's millionaire status undercut his populist economic message. He has made no apologies for his financial well-being. "It comes from a book I wrote, pretty good book," Sanders told a Fox News Channel town hall on Monday. "If anyone thinks that I should apologize for writing a best-selling book, I'm sorry, I'm not going to do it." The interest in presidential contenders and their taxes has jumped since Republican President Donald Trump shattered decades of tradition during the 2016 campaign by refusing to release his returns - a stance he has continued since entering the White House. Several in the growing field of Democratic 2020 contenders, including Senators Kirsten Gillibrand, Amy Klobuchar, Kamala Harris and Elizabeth Warren, and Governor Jay Inslee of Washington, have released their 2018 returns in recent weeks. Beto O'Rourke, the former congressman from Texas, released 10 years of his returns on Monday night. In the most recent year released, 2017, he had an adjusted gross income of $366,455. He promised to release his 2018 return as soon as possible. Most other Democratic contenders have pledged to release their tax returns soon. CHIDES TRUMP But the tax question had become more pressing recently for Sanders, who only released one year of returns during his 2016 campaign, as he moved into a strong early position in polls and fundraising among Democrats seeking the 2020 nomination to challenge Trump. Noting that Trump watches the Fox News Channel, Sanders took the opportunity to chide the president for his failure to release his returns. "Hey President Trump, my wife and I just released 10 years - please do the same," he said during the town hall. Sanders faced criticism for only releasing his 2014 returns during his 2016 Democratic primary battle with Hillary Clinton, a millionaire whom he often derided for giving paid speeches to Wall Street. The tax returns released on Monday showed Sanders paid a 26 percent effective tax rate on his adjusted gross income in 2018. His effective tax rates in 2016 and 2017, his other high-earning years, were 35 percent and 30 percent, respectively. As part of his policy agenda, Sanders has proposed higher taxes on top earners and a big expansion of the estate tax, lowering the threshold where it kicks in to $3.5 million from $11 million, and placing a 77 percent tax rate on the portion of estates worth more than $1 billion.  (Reporting by John Whitesides; Editing by Peter Cooney)

Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — U.S. Democratic presidential contender Bernie Sanders released 10 years of tax returns on Monday, providing details of his growing status as a millionaire fueled by a sharp jump in income from book royalties since his losing 2016 White House run. Sanders, a U.S. senator who routinely rails against the "millionaires and billionaires" he says have rigged the system to protect their wealth and power, had an adjusted gross income of $561,293 in 2018, $1,131,925 in 2017 and $1,062,626 in 2016, the returns showed. He augmented his Senate salary with book royalties in each of those years, particularly in 2016 and 2017 when he made more than $800,000 each year in royalties. Sanders has published three books since the start of his first White House run, including bestsellers "Our Revolution" and "Where We Go From Here." In 2014, the year before he launched his first presidential campaign, Sanders had an adjusted gross income of $205,271. Sanders had faced mounting pressure to release his taxes, with critics saying the democratic socialist's millionaire status undercut his populist economic message. He has made no apologies for his financial well-being. "It comes from a book I wrote, pretty good book," Sanders told a Fox News Channel town hall on Monday. "If anyone thinks that I should apologize for writing a best-selling book, I'm sorry, I'm not going to do it." The interest in presidential contenders and their taxes has jumped since Republican President Donald Trump shattered decades of tradition during the 2016 campaign by refusing to release his returns - a stance he has continued since entering the White House. Several in the growing field of Democratic 2020 contenders, including Senators Kirsten Gillibrand, Amy Klobuchar, Kamala Harris and Elizabeth Warren, and Governor Jay Inslee of Washington, have released their 2018 returns in recent weeks. Beto O'Rourke, the former congressman from Texas, released 10 years of his returns on Monday night. In the most recent year released, 2017, he had an adjusted gross income of $366,455. He promised to release his 2018 return as soon as possible. Most other Democratic contenders have pledged to release their tax returns soon. CHIDES TRUMP But the tax question had become more pressing recently for Sanders, who only released one year of returns during his 2016 campaign, as he moved into a strong early position in polls and fundraising among Democrats seeking the 2020 nomination to challenge Trump. Noting that Trump watches the Fox News Channel, Sanders took the opportunity to chide the president for his failure to release his returns. "Hey President Trump, my wife and I just released 10 years - please do the same," he said during the town hall. Sanders faced criticism for only releasing his 2014 returns during his 2016 Democratic primary battle with Hillary Clinton, a millionaire whom he often derided for giving paid speeches to Wall Street. The tax returns released on Monday showed Sanders paid a 26 percent effective tax rate on his adjusted gross income in 2018. His effective tax rates in 2016 and 2017, his other high-earning years, were 35 percent and 30 percent, respectively. As part of his policy agenda, Sanders has proposed higher taxes on top earners and a big expansion of the estate tax, lowering the threshold where it kicks in to $3.5 million from $11 million, and placing a 77 percent tax rate on the portion of estates worth more than $1 billion.  (Reporting by John Whitesides; Editing by Peter Cooney)Supported by Best of Late Night By Giovanni Russonello Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox. When Trevor Noah caught wind that President Trump had lied about his father’s birthplace, he wasn’t even angry — he was just confused. Speaking to reporters recently alongside Jens Stoltenberg, the secretary general of NATO, Trump said his father “was German — and born in a very wonderful place in Germany.” In truth, the president’s father, Fred Trump, was born in New York City. Noah had a hard time figuring out why Trump would lie about something like this. “This is one of those Trump lies where I’m just like, ‘Why are you even doing this?’ There’s nothing to gain!” — TREVOR NOAH “Sometimes it feels like he has an unlimited lying plan with Verizon. Like, why lie about this?” — TREVOR NOAH “You know the way we try to get our steps in? He’s trying to get in a certain number of lies on his ‘Fibbit’ every single day.” — TREVOR NOAH Noah joked that maybe Trump was just being a “birther” about his own father. “I will say this: I always thought that Trump was racist because he said that Obama was born in Kenya, but now that he’s doing it to his dad, maybe he’s just a birther for everyone. Maybe that’s just him.” — TREVOR NOAH Samantha Bee took the release of “Unplanned” — a film about an unplanned pregnancy, and one that is “so bad,” she said, “it makes ‘A Christmas Prince 2: Royal Wedding’ look like ‘Citizen Kane 2’” — as a cue to discuss the status of abortion rights across the country. She was particularly disturbed by a bill passed last week by state lawmakers in Georgia. “Georgia’s new bill outlaws abortion as soon as doctors can discern a fetal heartbeat, which happens around six weeks of pregnancy. It’s a time when a lot of women don’t even know they’re pregnant yet, since that’s only two weeks past the missed period. Two weeks after my missed period, I don’t know if I’m pregnant or if it’s just my amazing training for the Olympics. Either way, Bob Costas is involved.” — SAMANTHA BEE “Fifteen defendants who were charged in last month’s college admissions scandal appeared in court today, including actresses Felicity Huffman and Lori Loughlin. The courthouse was packed — but somehow their daughters got in!” — SETH MEYERS “Fox News will host a town hall event in Pennsylvania this month with Senator Bernie Sanders. It will give Fox News viewers an opportunity to hear from someone younger.” — SETH MEYERS “Alec Baldwin is here, you know what that means: There’s a good chance President Trump will be angrily live-tweeting the show.” — JIMMY FALLON, welcoming his guest for the evening “Jimmy Kimmel Live” is filming in Las Vegas this week, and Guillermo couldn’t pass up the opportunity to go out partying. And there’s a videotape. Bee discussed tech companies’ efforts to push back against anti-vaccination conspiracy theorists. Seth Rogen will chat with Jimmy Kimmel on Thursday. Maybe “Game of Thrones” — the TV series that by now borders on national obsession — will never really end. Plus, Ideas for What to Watch Tonight: The 50 Best Movies on Netflix Right Now The 25 Best Films of the 21st Century The Best Movies on Amazon Prime Video Right Now

Supported by Best of Late Night By Giovanni Russonello Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox. When Trevor Noah caught wind that President Trump had lied about his father’s birthplace, he wasn’t even angry — he was just confused. Speaking to reporters recently alongside Jens Stoltenberg, the secretary general of NATO, Trump said his father “was German — and born in a very wonderful place in Germany.” In truth, the president’s father, Fred Trump, was born in New York City. Noah had a hard time figuring out why Trump would lie about something like this. “This is one of those Trump lies where I’m just like, ‘Why are you even doing this?’ There’s nothing to gain!” — TREVOR NOAH “Sometimes it feels like he has an unlimited lying plan with Verizon. Like, why lie about this?” — TREVOR NOAH “You know the way we try to get our steps in? He’s trying to get in a certain number of lies on his ‘Fibbit’ every single day.” — TREVOR NOAH Noah joked that maybe Trump was just being a “birther” about his own father. “I will say this: I always thought that Trump was racist because he said that Obama was born in Kenya, but now that he’s doing it to his dad, maybe he’s just a birther for everyone. Maybe that’s just him.” — TREVOR NOAH Samantha Bee took the release of “Unplanned” — a film about an unplanned pregnancy, and one that is “so bad,” she said, “it makes ‘A Christmas Prince 2: Royal Wedding’ look like ‘Citizen Kane 2’” — as a cue to discuss the status of abortion rights across the country. She was particularly disturbed by a bill passed last week by state lawmakers in Georgia. “Georgia’s new bill outlaws abortion as soon as doctors can discern a fetal heartbeat, which happens around six weeks of pregnancy. It’s a time when a lot of women don’t even know they’re pregnant yet, since that’s only two weeks past the missed period. Two weeks after my missed period, I don’t know if I’m pregnant or if it’s just my amazing training for the Olympics. Either way, Bob Costas is involved.” — SAMANTHA BEE “Fifteen defendants who were charged in last month’s college admissions scandal appeared in court today, including actresses Felicity Huffman and Lori Loughlin. The courthouse was packed — but somehow their daughters got in!” — SETH MEYERS “Fox News will host a town hall event in Pennsylvania this month with Senator Bernie Sanders. It will give Fox News viewers an opportunity to hear from someone younger.” — SETH MEYERS “Alec Baldwin is here, you know what that means: There’s a good chance President Trump will be angrily live-tweeting the show.” — JIMMY FALLON, welcoming his guest for the evening “Jimmy Kimmel Live” is filming in Las Vegas this week, and Guillermo couldn’t pass up the opportunity to go out partying. And there’s a videotape. Bee discussed tech companies’ efforts to push back against anti-vaccination conspiracy theorists. Seth Rogen will chat with Jimmy Kimmel on Thursday. Maybe “Game of Thrones” — the TV series that by now borders on national obsession — will never really end. Plus, Ideas for What to Watch Tonight: The 50 Best Movies on Netflix Right Now The 25 Best Films of the 21st Century The Best Movies on Amazon Prime Video Right NowSupported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — Top congressional Democrats left the door open on Sunday to the impeachment of U.S. President Donald Trump, but said they would first need to complete their own investigations into whether he obstructed justice in Special Counsel Robert Mueller's Russia probe. Some party leaders have cautioned against impeachment just 18 months before the 2020 presidential election, although prominent liberals have demanded the start of proceedings to remove Trump from office since the release on Thursday of a redacted version of Mueller's report. U.S. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Jerrold Nadler, whose panel would spearhead any impeachment proceedings, said Democrats would press ahead with investigations of Trump in Congress and "see where the facts lead us.""Obstruction of justice, if proven, would be impeachable," Nadler said on NBC's "Meet the Press." The redacted version of Mueller's long-awaited report on Russian interference in the 2016 election, the product of a 22-month-long investigation, outlined multiple instances where Trump tried to thwart the probe. While it stopped short of concluding Trump had committed a crime, it did not exonerate him. Mueller also noted that Congress has the power to address whether Trump violated the law, and Democrats said it would be a matter of discussion in the coming weeks. "That's going to be a very consequential decision and one I'm going to reserve judgment on until we have a chance to fully deliberate on it," House Intelligence Committee Chairman Adam Schiff said on "Fox News Sunday." Democrats in the House of Representatives planned a conference call for Monday afternoon to discuss their next steps in response to the Mueller report. Democratic House Speaker Nancy Pelosi wrote lawmakers last week to notify them of the call "to discuss this grave matter." Nadler has issued a subpoena to the Justice Department to hand over the full, unredacted Mueller report and other relevant evidence by May 1, although the Justice Department called the request "premature and unnecessary." Before drawing any conclusions, Nadler said Democrats would want to see those materials as well as hear from Mueller and Attorney General William Barr, who is scheduled to testify in early May. Nadler also said he would call former White House counsel Donald McGahn to testify. Republicans have stood by Trump, and Speaker Pelosi has cautioned against an impeachment effort that would have no chance of success in the Republican-led Senate. U.S. Senator Elizabeth Warren became the first major contender for the Democratic 2020 presidential nomination to call for the start of impeachment, saying on Friday that "the severity of this misconduct" demanded it.  Julian Castro, former housing secretary under President Barack Obama and another 2020 contender, joined Warren in backing the launch of impeachment proceedings. Democratic House Oversight Committee Chairman Elijah Cummings said on CBS television's "Face the Nation" that he could foresee possible impeachment proceedings against Trump, "but I'm not there yet." He also said Congress needed to look at Trump's finances and gauge Mueller's intentions with his report. But even if Senate Republicans blocked a Democratic impeachment effort, Cummings said: "I think history would smile upon us for standing up for the Constitution." Representative Tim Ryan, another Democratic presidential contender, said the party should wait until multiple ongoing investigations of Trump in Congress have had a chance to uncover more evidence. "Let the process play itself out," he said on CNN's "State of the Union" program. "I would just rather us take this next step: educate the American people, really get these details out, let the Judiciary Committee do its work." Trump, who has repeatedly called the investigation a "witch hunt," has claimed vindication from Mueller's report. Rudy Giuliani, one of Trump's lawyers, sought to undermine the credibility of Mueller's investigators on NBC's "Meet the Press." "I don't think his people are fair," Giuliani said of Mueller's team. "I don't think that report is fair." While Trump's team had indicated it would release a rebuttal to Mueller's report, Giuliani said that was not imminent although it would probably be released at some point. "We planned to do it if we needed to. So far, we don't think we need to," he said on Fox News Sunday.   (Reporting by Sarah N. Lynch and Yasmeen Abutaleb; additional reporting by John Whitesides and Tim Ahmann; writing by John Whitesides; editing by Bill Berkrot and G Crosse)

Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — Top congressional Democrats left the door open on Sunday to the impeachment of U.S. President Donald Trump, but said they would first need to complete their own investigations into whether he obstructed justice in Special Counsel Robert Mueller's Russia probe. Some party leaders have cautioned against impeachment just 18 months before the 2020 presidential election, although prominent liberals have demanded the start of proceedings to remove Trump from office since the release on Thursday of a redacted version of Mueller's report. U.S. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Jerrold Nadler, whose panel would spearhead any impeachment proceedings, said Democrats would press ahead with investigations of Trump in Congress and "see where the facts lead us.""Obstruction of justice, if proven, would be impeachable," Nadler said on NBC's "Meet the Press." The redacted version of Mueller's long-awaited report on Russian interference in the 2016 election, the product of a 22-month-long investigation, outlined multiple instances where Trump tried to thwart the probe. While it stopped short of concluding Trump had committed a crime, it did not exonerate him. Mueller also noted that Congress has the power to address whether Trump violated the law, and Democrats said it would be a matter of discussion in the coming weeks. "That's going to be a very consequential decision and one I'm going to reserve judgment on until we have a chance to fully deliberate on it," House Intelligence Committee Chairman Adam Schiff said on "Fox News Sunday." Democrats in the House of Representatives planned a conference call for Monday afternoon to discuss their next steps in response to the Mueller report. Democratic House Speaker Nancy Pelosi wrote lawmakers last week to notify them of the call "to discuss this grave matter." Nadler has issued a subpoena to the Justice Department to hand over the full, unredacted Mueller report and other relevant evidence by May 1, although the Justice Department called the request "premature and unnecessary." Before drawing any conclusions, Nadler said Democrats would want to see those materials as well as hear from Mueller and Attorney General William Barr, who is scheduled to testify in early May. Nadler also said he would call former White House counsel Donald McGahn to testify. Republicans have stood by Trump, and Speaker Pelosi has cautioned against an impeachment effort that would have no chance of success in the Republican-led Senate. U.S. Senator Elizabeth Warren became the first major contender for the Democratic 2020 presidential nomination to call for the start of impeachment, saying on Friday that "the severity of this misconduct" demanded it.  Julian Castro, former housing secretary under President Barack Obama and another 2020 contender, joined Warren in backing the launch of impeachment proceedings. Democratic House Oversight Committee Chairman Elijah Cummings said on CBS television's "Face the Nation" that he could foresee possible impeachment proceedings against Trump, "but I'm not there yet." He also said Congress needed to look at Trump's finances and gauge Mueller's intentions with his report. But even if Senate Republicans blocked a Democratic impeachment effort, Cummings said: "I think history would smile upon us for standing up for the Constitution." Representative Tim Ryan, another Democratic presidential contender, said the party should wait until multiple ongoing investigations of Trump in Congress have had a chance to uncover more evidence. "Let the process play itself out," he said on CNN's "State of the Union" program. "I would just rather us take this next step: educate the American people, really get these details out, let the Judiciary Committee do its work." Trump, who has repeatedly called the investigation a "witch hunt," has claimed vindication from Mueller's report. Rudy Giuliani, one of Trump's lawyers, sought to undermine the credibility of Mueller's investigators on NBC's "Meet the Press." "I don't think his people are fair," Giuliani said of Mueller's team. "I don't think that report is fair." While Trump's team had indicated it would release a rebuttal to Mueller's report, Giuliani said that was not imminent although it would probably be released at some point. "We planned to do it if we needed to. So far, we don't think we need to," he said on Fox News Sunday.   (Reporting by Sarah N. Lynch and Yasmeen Abutaleb; additional reporting by John Whitesides and Tim Ahmann; writing by John Whitesides; editing by Bill Berkrot and G Crosse)Supported by White House Memo By Katie Rogers and Maggie Haberman WASHINGTON — As he awaits the Thursday release of the redacted special counsel report on his 2016 campaign’s ties to Russia, President Trump is filling his idle moments — and blowing off any anticipatory steam — by turning to a familiar pastime: television. In speeches, in interviews and on Twitter this week, the president has returned to his comfortable role of town crier and news wire as he opines on the news developments of the day. Bernie Sanders, a prospective Democratic challenger for the presidency, appeared on Fox News: Weird, the president tweeted on Tuesday, adding that it was odd that “we” — meaning he and Fox News — had brought the Democratic strategist Donna Brazile into the channel’s Trump-friendly fold of cable contributors. Nancy Pelosi, the Democratic House speaker, appeared on “60 Minutes” over the weekend: “Puff piece,” the president scoffed on Twitter, adding that Ms. Pelosi was a “disaster” in negotiations with him at the White House. (“Thanks for watching!” Ms. Pelosi responded.) Cher, the singer and frequent Trump critic who uses a toilet emoji when referring to the president, disliked the White House’s proposed plan to transport undocumented migrants to sanctuary cities, saying Los Angeles already had people in poverty it could not take care of. “I finally agree with @Cher!” Mr. Trump exclaimed to 59 million Twitter followers. In addition to his running commentary, Mr. Trump has taken up the role of play-by-play announcer. He first weighed in on the fire that engulfed Notre-Dame, the French cathedral and international symbol of resilience and faith, by suggesting that flying tankers drop water on the 800-year-old structure. The French authorities responded with a pointed English-language statement to say that the building, already buckling under the weight of crumbling wooden beams and limestone, would have been destroyed if that advice had been followed. This did not deter the president from sharing updates with a crowd of supporters in Minnesota with all the accuracy of a police scanner: “Looks like it’s burning to the ground,” Mr. Trump told his supporters. They gasped at the news. (Notre-Dame, it turned out, did not burn to the ground, but by the time the smoke cleared, Mr. Trump had already moved on to disparaging Robert S. Mueller III’s investigation.) Mr. Trump has always enjoyed providing his own unique interpretation of the day’s news, in part because for years before coming to Washington he saw himself as a part of the media, first as a tabloid fixture in New York City and then as a cable commentator and reality-television star. Randal Pinkett, the chairman of BCT Partners, a consulting firm, and winner of season four of “The Apprentice,” recalled in an interview that Mr. Trump was “obsessed with media” and constantly reminded people around him that the show was No. 1 (though it did not crack the top 20). “He has the same temperament now that he did,” Mr. Pinkett said, “and has probably had for quite some time, given the Donald-centric world he’s constructed around himself.” Now in the White House, Mr. Trump’s delight in being the first to share information is palpable. “Don’t you enjoy being the first person to scoop someone?” said Anthony Scaramucci, who served for 11 days as the White House communications director. “For many years he felt that there was no separation between his brand and the media, that there was an intersection of value for himself personally between his brand and saturating it in the media,” Mr. Scaramucci said. Mr. Trump spent decades sharpening his ability to manipulate and create his own news cycles, sometimes in pioneering ways. Years before running for president, Mr. Trump frequently used the six-second social media video platform Vine to weigh in on topics such as Miley Cyrus and the former Democratic congressman Anthony D. Weiner — “No perverts!” Mr. Trump exclaimed one day from his private jet. As a presidential candidate, Mr. Trump was often described by aides as a sophisticated version of a parrot, given his penchant for repeating information almost unfiltered, as soon as he had processed it. As president, Mr. Trump — who has shaped the White House communications operation around his belief that he is his own best messenger — has acted as both reporter and participant. When Tiger Woods clinched the Masters golf tournament on Sunday, Mr. Trump, who spent the day inviting Americans to watch — “Very exciting, tune in!” — announced he would award Mr. Woods the Presidential Medal of Freedom. “Because of his incredible Success & Comeback in Sports (Golf) and, more importantly, LIFE, I will be presenting him with the PRESIDENTIAL MEDAL OF FREEDOM!” Mr. Trump wrote. Mr. Trump’s allies and advisers see his use of information flow, particularly on Twitter, as one of his strengths. He presents himself to supporters not just as an elected official representing them, but also as a source they can believe. “Part of the reason that the president was elected in the first place was because he reflected the distrust and disdain that large swaths of the country have had for the mainstream media for many years now,” said Andy Surabian, a Republican strategist and a former special assistant to the president in the White House. Boris Epshteyn, now the chief political commentator at Sinclair Broadcast Group who also served as a special assistant to Mr. Trump, said the president had “consistently been very effective” at dealing with the media during his career, and that as president, he had “the most powerful loudspeaker in the world, both through traditional and social media channels.” For all of the mystery surrounding Mr. Trump’s uses of his unscheduled hours, some aides privately concede that a large portion of that time is spent with a television on in the background. When he eats lunch in his dining room with visitors, a TV is usually on, either turned down or muted, until there is something he wants to hear. When he travels on Air Force One, he toggles between the Golf Channel and Fox News. The morning hours blocked off for unstructured executive time are often interspersed with tweets responding to television commentary on Mr. Mueller’s report. To reinforce Mr. Trump’s view that he has been “exonerated” by the investigation, White House surrogates who appear on cable news in support of the president have received a barrage of emails, many written by Julia Hahn, the White House surrogate liaison, declaring the president fully vindicated. Democrats have made a point of rejecting the notion that the president should be placing himself at the front and center of every major cultural development. “Starting today, we are going to change the channel,” Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Ind., said in a speech announcing his presidential candidacy on Sunday, adding that it was time to end Mr. Trump’s “horror show” in Washington. Mo Elleithee, the executive director of the Georgetown Institute of Politics and Public Service and a former spokesman for the Democratic National Committee, said Mr. Trump’s insistence on inserting himself into a wide variety of stories — some of which are about his potential 2020 opponents and not the White House — may be the president’s way of trying to wrestle back attention from a crowded field. “If anything, he’s going to be responding” to non-Trump-related news going forward, Mr. Elleithee said, “which is an unusual place for him.” But, he added: “The fact that he was giving firefighting advice as the flames were still blazing just shows one, that his instinct right now is to try to get into every story he possibly can, and two, it’s not as effective as it once was. A year ago, it would’ve been dominant.”   

Supported by White House Memo By Katie Rogers and Maggie Haberman WASHINGTON — As he awaits the Thursday release of the redacted special counsel report on his 2016 campaign’s ties to Russia, President Trump is filling his idle moments — and blowing off any anticipatory steam — by turning to a familiar pastime: television. In speeches, in interviews and on Twitter this week, the president has returned to his comfortable role of town crier and news wire as he opines on the news developments of the day. Bernie Sanders, a prospective Democratic challenger for the presidency, appeared on Fox News: Weird, the president tweeted on Tuesday, adding that it was odd that “we” — meaning he and Fox News — had brought the Democratic strategist Donna Brazile into the channel’s Trump-friendly fold of cable contributors. Nancy Pelosi, the Democratic House speaker, appeared on “60 Minutes” over the weekend: “Puff piece,” the president scoffed on Twitter, adding that Ms. Pelosi was a “disaster” in negotiations with him at the White House. (“Thanks for watching!” Ms. Pelosi responded.) Cher, the singer and frequent Trump critic who uses a toilet emoji when referring to the president, disliked the White House’s proposed plan to transport undocumented migrants to sanctuary cities, saying Los Angeles already had people in poverty it could not take care of. “I finally agree with @Cher!” Mr. Trump exclaimed to 59 million Twitter followers. In addition to his running commentary, Mr. Trump has taken up the role of play-by-play announcer. He first weighed in on the fire that engulfed Notre-Dame, the French cathedral and international symbol of resilience and faith, by suggesting that flying tankers drop water on the 800-year-old structure. The French authorities responded with a pointed English-language statement to say that the building, already buckling under the weight of crumbling wooden beams and limestone, would have been destroyed if that advice had been followed. This did not deter the president from sharing updates with a crowd of supporters in Minnesota with all the accuracy of a police scanner: “Looks like it’s burning to the ground,” Mr. Trump told his supporters. They gasped at the news. (Notre-Dame, it turned out, did not burn to the ground, but by the time the smoke cleared, Mr. Trump had already moved on to disparaging Robert S. Mueller III’s investigation.) Mr. Trump has always enjoyed providing his own unique interpretation of the day’s news, in part because for years before coming to Washington he saw himself as a part of the media, first as a tabloid fixture in New York City and then as a cable commentator and reality-television star. Randal Pinkett, the chairman of BCT Partners, a consulting firm, and winner of season four of “The Apprentice,” recalled in an interview that Mr. Trump was “obsessed with media” and constantly reminded people around him that the show was No. 1 (though it did not crack the top 20). “He has the same temperament now that he did,” Mr. Pinkett said, “and has probably had for quite some time, given the Donald-centric world he’s constructed around himself.” Now in the White House, Mr. Trump’s delight in being the first to share information is palpable. “Don’t you enjoy being the first person to scoop someone?” said Anthony Scaramucci, who served for 11 days as the White House communications director. “For many years he felt that there was no separation between his brand and the media, that there was an intersection of value for himself personally between his brand and saturating it in the media,” Mr. Scaramucci said. Mr. Trump spent decades sharpening his ability to manipulate and create his own news cycles, sometimes in pioneering ways. Years before running for president, Mr. Trump frequently used the six-second social media video platform Vine to weigh in on topics such as Miley Cyrus and the former Democratic congressman Anthony D. Weiner — “No perverts!” Mr. Trump exclaimed one day from his private jet. As a presidential candidate, Mr. Trump was often described by aides as a sophisticated version of a parrot, given his penchant for repeating information almost unfiltered, as soon as he had processed it. As president, Mr. Trump — who has shaped the White House communications operation around his belief that he is his own best messenger — has acted as both reporter and participant. When Tiger Woods clinched the Masters golf tournament on Sunday, Mr. Trump, who spent the day inviting Americans to watch — “Very exciting, tune in!” — announced he would award Mr. Woods the Presidential Medal of Freedom. “Because of his incredible Success & Comeback in Sports (Golf) and, more importantly, LIFE, I will be presenting him with the PRESIDENTIAL MEDAL OF FREEDOM!” Mr. Trump wrote. Mr. Trump’s allies and advisers see his use of information flow, particularly on Twitter, as one of his strengths. He presents himself to supporters not just as an elected official representing them, but also as a source they can believe. “Part of the reason that the president was elected in the first place was because he reflected the distrust and disdain that large swaths of the country have had for the mainstream media for many years now,” said Andy Surabian, a Republican strategist and a former special assistant to the president in the White House. Boris Epshteyn, now the chief political commentator at Sinclair Broadcast Group who also served as a special assistant to Mr. Trump, said the president had “consistently been very effective” at dealing with the media during his career, and that as president, he had “the most powerful loudspeaker in the world, both through traditional and social media channels.” For all of the mystery surrounding Mr. Trump’s uses of his unscheduled hours, some aides privately concede that a large portion of that time is spent with a television on in the background. When he eats lunch in his dining room with visitors, a TV is usually on, either turned down or muted, until there is something he wants to hear. When he travels on Air Force One, he toggles between the Golf Channel and Fox News. The morning hours blocked off for unstructured executive time are often interspersed with tweets responding to television commentary on Mr. Mueller’s report. To reinforce Mr. Trump’s view that he has been “exonerated” by the investigation, White House surrogates who appear on cable news in support of the president have received a barrage of emails, many written by Julia Hahn, the White House surrogate liaison, declaring the president fully vindicated. Democrats have made a point of rejecting the notion that the president should be placing himself at the front and center of every major cultural development. “Starting today, we are going to change the channel,” Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Ind., said in a speech announcing his presidential candidacy on Sunday, adding that it was time to end Mr. Trump’s “horror show” in Washington. Mo Elleithee, the executive director of the Georgetown Institute of Politics and Public Service and a former spokesman for the Democratic National Committee, said Mr. Trump’s insistence on inserting himself into a wide variety of stories — some of which are about his potential 2020 opponents and not the White House — may be the president’s way of trying to wrestle back attention from a crowded field. “If anything, he’s going to be responding” to non-Trump-related news going forward, Mr. Elleithee said, “which is an unusual place for him.” But, he added: “The fact that he was giving firefighting advice as the flames were still blazing just shows one, that his instinct right now is to try to get into every story he possibly can, and two, it’s not as effective as it once was. A year ago, it would’ve been dominant.”   Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — The Latest on President Donald Trump's tax returns (all times local): 10:45 a.m. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin says his department intends to "follow the law" and is reviewing a request by a top House Democrat to provide President Donald Trump's tax returns to lawmakers. Mnuchin told a House panel that he has not had any communications with the president or his top staff about the department's decision whether or not to provide Trump's tax returns under a nearly century-old statute that says the Treasury Department "shall furnish" them when requested. Acting White House chief of staff Mick Mulvaney said in a Sunday show appearance that lawmakers will "never" see Trump's returns. Ways and Means Committee Chairman Richard Neal requested the returns last week in a letter to Mnuchin that set a deadline of Wednesday to provide them. Mnuchin says he "looks forward to responding." ___ 12:25 a.m. IRS Commissioner Charles Rettig is facing off with lawmakers on Capitol Hill for the first time since House Democrats last week asked him for President Donald Trump's tax returns. Rettig is sure to face questions from a House Appropriations Committee panel on the topic Tuesday afternoon. The White House has signaled it'll fight the request. Last week, the chairman of a different House panel asked for Trump's personal and business returns by Wednesday in a letter to Rettig, relying on a 1924 statute that says the Treasury Department "shall furnish" them when requested. The IRS is part of Treasury. Acting White House chief of staff Mick Mulvaney said on "Fox News Sunday" that lawmakers will "never" see Trump's returns. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin squares off with lawmakers in the morning.

Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — The Latest on President Donald Trump's tax returns (all times local): 10:45 a.m. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin says his department intends to "follow the law" and is reviewing a request by a top House Democrat to provide President Donald Trump's tax returns to lawmakers. Mnuchin told a House panel that he has not had any communications with the president or his top staff about the department's decision whether or not to provide Trump's tax returns under a nearly century-old statute that says the Treasury Department "shall furnish" them when requested. Acting White House chief of staff Mick Mulvaney said in a Sunday show appearance that lawmakers will "never" see Trump's returns. Ways and Means Committee Chairman Richard Neal requested the returns last week in a letter to Mnuchin that set a deadline of Wednesday to provide them. Mnuchin says he "looks forward to responding." ___ 12:25 a.m. IRS Commissioner Charles Rettig is facing off with lawmakers on Capitol Hill for the first time since House Democrats last week asked him for President Donald Trump's tax returns. Rettig is sure to face questions from a House Appropriations Committee panel on the topic Tuesday afternoon. The White House has signaled it'll fight the request. Last week, the chairman of a different House panel asked for Trump's personal and business returns by Wednesday in a letter to Rettig, relying on a 1924 statute that says the Treasury Department "shall furnish" them when requested. The IRS is part of Treasury. Acting White House chief of staff Mick Mulvaney said on "Fox News Sunday" that lawmakers will "never" see Trump's returns. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin squares off with lawmakers in the morning.Supported by By Maggie Astor Some of the most prominent voices in the conservative base were furious at President Trump on Friday after he agreed to reopen the government without getting money for a border wall — the sort of terms he had spent more than a month rejecting. They derided the deal as a capitulation by a leader who they had trusted to stand firm. Good news for George Herbert Walker Bush: As of today, he is no longer the biggest wimp ever to serve as President of the United States. Among those leading the charge was the conservative author Ann Coulter, one of Mr. Trump’s earliest and firmest supporters. She told The Times columnist Frank Bruni last year that “implementing the principles of ‘The Communist Manifesto’” would be less of a betrayal by Mr. Trump than retreating on the wall, one of his central campaign promises. Some on the right picked up on that theme of betrayal on Friday. Much of the criticism centered on toughness and steadiness, two qualities that Mr. Trump has long bragged about having. “Weak,” “wimp,” “beta” — these insults were hurled at the president from the right on Friday. Peter Wehner, a senior fellow at the conservative Ethics and Public Policy Center who worked for Presidents Ronald Reagan, George Bush and George W. Bush, wrote that House Speaker Nancy Pelosi had “exposed” Mr. Trump “as pitifully weak, all bluster, a pathetic negotiator,” and that his backing down would undoubtedly hurt the president with his base. (Mr. Wehner himself, who is also a contributing opinion writer for The Times, has long been critical of Mr. Trump.) The Breitbart News home page Friday afternoon blared, with “no wall” in bright red letters: GOVERNMENT OPEN … … AND BORDER NO WALL STILL NO SOTU! The Daily Caller, another right-wing news outlet, declared in its own headline, “TRUMP CAVES.” Fox News presented the news very differently. “DEAL REACHED,” its home page said, reporting that Mr. Trump and Democrats had come to an agreement. This reflects a broader divide between two segments of Mr. Trump’s base: those, like Ms. Coulter, for whom a border wall is a major priority, and those who see Trumpism as something much larger. For the latter group, Friday’s announcement seemed a forgivable offense. Then there was a third group: those who are staunchly committed to the wall and argued that Mr. Trump’s move on Friday was actually strategic. “I am more proud of President Trump today than I have ever been,” wrote Bill Mitchell, an outspoken Trump supporter, arguing that the president had essentially guaranteed victory by vowing to declare a national emergency if Democrats do not fund the wall within three weeks. The Fox News host Sean Hannity made a similar argument on his radio show. No, he said, Mr. Trump didn’t get any money for the wall in this deal — “but he’s going to.” Follow Maggie Astor on Twitter: @MaggieAstor.   

Supported by By Maggie Astor Some of the most prominent voices in the conservative base were furious at President Trump on Friday after he agreed to reopen the government without getting money for a border wall — the sort of terms he had spent more than a month rejecting. They derided the deal as a capitulation by a leader who they had trusted to stand firm. Good news for George Herbert Walker Bush: As of today, he is no longer the biggest wimp ever to serve as President of the United States. Among those leading the charge was the conservative author Ann Coulter, one of Mr. Trump’s earliest and firmest supporters. She told The Times columnist Frank Bruni last year that “implementing the principles of ‘The Communist Manifesto’” would be less of a betrayal by Mr. Trump than retreating on the wall, one of his central campaign promises. Some on the right picked up on that theme of betrayal on Friday. Much of the criticism centered on toughness and steadiness, two qualities that Mr. Trump has long bragged about having. “Weak,” “wimp,” “beta” — these insults were hurled at the president from the right on Friday. Peter Wehner, a senior fellow at the conservative Ethics and Public Policy Center who worked for Presidents Ronald Reagan, George Bush and George W. Bush, wrote that House Speaker Nancy Pelosi had “exposed” Mr. Trump “as pitifully weak, all bluster, a pathetic negotiator,” and that his backing down would undoubtedly hurt the president with his base. (Mr. Wehner himself, who is also a contributing opinion writer for The Times, has long been critical of Mr. Trump.) The Breitbart News home page Friday afternoon blared, with “no wall” in bright red letters: GOVERNMENT OPEN … … AND BORDER NO WALL STILL NO SOTU! The Daily Caller, another right-wing news outlet, declared in its own headline, “TRUMP CAVES.” Fox News presented the news very differently. “DEAL REACHED,” its home page said, reporting that Mr. Trump and Democrats had come to an agreement. This reflects a broader divide between two segments of Mr. Trump’s base: those, like Ms. Coulter, for whom a border wall is a major priority, and those who see Trumpism as something much larger. For the latter group, Friday’s announcement seemed a forgivable offense. Then there was a third group: those who are staunchly committed to the wall and argued that Mr. Trump’s move on Friday was actually strategic. “I am more proud of President Trump today than I have ever been,” wrote Bill Mitchell, an outspoken Trump supporter, arguing that the president had essentially guaranteed victory by vowing to declare a national emergency if Democrats do not fund the wall within three weeks. The Fox News host Sean Hannity made a similar argument on his radio show. No, he said, Mr. Trump didn’t get any money for the wall in this deal — “but he’s going to.” Follow Maggie Astor on Twitter: @MaggieAstor.   Supported by NATIONAL An article on Friday about the psychology of personal space misstated when former Vice President Joe Biden released a video on the importance of respecting it. It was Wednesday, not Thursday. ARTS A theater review on Thursday about John Doyle’s production of “The Cradle Will Rock” misstated the name of the opera company featured in a live recording of a previous production of the play. It is Opera Saratoga, not Opera Sarasota. SCIENCE An article on Tuesday about a plague that kills frogs, using information provided by a researcher, misstated the extent of the spread of a fungus that kills frogs. It has spread to Madagascar; it is not the case that the island country remains free of the fungus. MAGAZINE The cover article this weekend about Rupert Murdoch’s media empire describes incorrectly the Fox News host Greta Van Susteren’s departure from the Fox network. Van Susteren was preparing to leave when Murdoch canceled her show; she was not fired. And the article misstates the given name of a media analyst. She is Claire Enders, not Alice. The article also describes incorrectly the islands of Nauru and Manus. Nauru is an independent nation and Manus is part of Papua New Guinea. Neither is part of Australia. CROSSWORD Because of a production error, this weekend’s KenKen puzzle is a duplicate of the March 31 puzzle. New KenKen puzzles will resume in the April 14 issue. Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions. To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com or call 1-844-NYT-NEWS (1-844-698-6397). Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com or faxed to (212) 556-3622. For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.

Supported by NATIONAL An article on Friday about the psychology of personal space misstated when former Vice President Joe Biden released a video on the importance of respecting it. It was Wednesday, not Thursday. ARTS A theater review on Thursday about John Doyle’s production of “The Cradle Will Rock” misstated the name of the opera company featured in a live recording of a previous production of the play. It is Opera Saratoga, not Opera Sarasota. SCIENCE An article on Tuesday about a plague that kills frogs, using information provided by a researcher, misstated the extent of the spread of a fungus that kills frogs. It has spread to Madagascar; it is not the case that the island country remains free of the fungus. MAGAZINE The cover article this weekend about Rupert Murdoch’s media empire describes incorrectly the Fox News host Greta Van Susteren’s departure from the Fox network. Van Susteren was preparing to leave when Murdoch canceled her show; she was not fired. And the article misstates the given name of a media analyst. She is Claire Enders, not Alice. The article also describes incorrectly the islands of Nauru and Manus. Nauru is an independent nation and Manus is part of Papua New Guinea. Neither is part of Australia. CROSSWORD Because of a production error, this weekend’s KenKen puzzle is a duplicate of the March 31 puzzle. New KenKen puzzles will resume in the April 14 issue. Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions. To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com or call 1-844-NYT-NEWS (1-844-698-6397). Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com or faxed to (212) 556-3622. For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.Supported by By Michael M. Grynbaum Even in its heyday, “The Apprentice” never earned ratings like this. President Trump’s appearance in network prime time on Tuesday — a nine-minute speech from the Oval Office on border security that mostly recycled his usual talking points — drew roughly 40 million television viewers, according to statistics released on Wednesday by Nielsen. That audience fell short of Mr. Trump’s State of the Union address last January, which drew about 45.6 million viewers, and past landmark presidential moments, like Barack Obama’s announcement of the death of Osama bin Laden in 2011, which reached 56.5 million people. But Mr. Trump’s appearance edged Mr. Obama’s 2016 State of the Union address (31.3 million), a 2014 speech that Mr. Obama delivered about the Islamic State (34.1 million) and, for good measure, the first-season finale of “The Apprentice” in 2004 (28 million). The decision by broadcast networks to pre-empt programming for Mr. Trump, who requested time to discuss the government shutdown, touched off a vigorous debate. The speech itself made little news, and critics questioned why network executives had agreed to grant Mr. Trump such a large platform. Executives said they believed that the shutdown, and its adverse affects on millions of Americans, were inherently newsworthy. Mr. Trump told a group of news anchors at a private lunch on Tuesday that he hadn’t been inclined to give the address and that his public-relations blitz on border security was “not going to change a damn thing.” Viewers still tuned in, including nearly 16 million across the three big cable news channels — Fox News, CNN and MSNBC — a major jump in their usual weeknight audience. An additional 24 million watched special bulletins on the four major broadcast networks, which cut into entertainment fare like the CBS procedural “FBI.” Fox News’s coverage attracted the biggest audience of any channel, with about 8.2 million people watching Mr. Trump’s speech. Among the broadcast networks, CBS averaged about eight million viewers, followed by NBC (about seven million) and ABC (about 4.4 million). NBC won among adults ages 25 to 54, the audience most important to advertisers. The Nielsen measurement does not include Americans who watched online livestreams of Mr. Trump’s remarks. It was Mr. Trump’s first formal Oval Office address, and he thanked supporters afterward on Twitter “for soooo many nice comments.” “A very interesting experience!” the president wrote. 

Supported by By Michael M. Grynbaum Even in its heyday, “The Apprentice” never earned ratings like this. President Trump’s appearance in network prime time on Tuesday — a nine-minute speech from the Oval Office on border security that mostly recycled his usual talking points — drew roughly 40 million television viewers, according to statistics released on Wednesday by Nielsen. That audience fell short of Mr. Trump’s State of the Union address last January, which drew about 45.6 million viewers, and past landmark presidential moments, like Barack Obama’s announcement of the death of Osama bin Laden in 2011, which reached 56.5 million people. But Mr. Trump’s appearance edged Mr. Obama’s 2016 State of the Union address (31.3 million), a 2014 speech that Mr. Obama delivered about the Islamic State (34.1 million) and, for good measure, the first-season finale of “The Apprentice” in 2004 (28 million). The decision by broadcast networks to pre-empt programming for Mr. Trump, who requested time to discuss the government shutdown, touched off a vigorous debate. The speech itself made little news, and critics questioned why network executives had agreed to grant Mr. Trump such a large platform. Executives said they believed that the shutdown, and its adverse affects on millions of Americans, were inherently newsworthy. Mr. Trump told a group of news anchors at a private lunch on Tuesday that he hadn’t been inclined to give the address and that his public-relations blitz on border security was “not going to change a damn thing.” Viewers still tuned in, including nearly 16 million across the three big cable news channels — Fox News, CNN and MSNBC — a major jump in their usual weeknight audience. An additional 24 million watched special bulletins on the four major broadcast networks, which cut into entertainment fare like the CBS procedural “FBI.” Fox News’s coverage attracted the biggest audience of any channel, with about 8.2 million people watching Mr. Trump’s speech. Among the broadcast networks, CBS averaged about eight million viewers, followed by NBC (about seven million) and ABC (about 4.4 million). NBC won among adults ages 25 to 54, the audience most important to advertisers. The Nielsen measurement does not include Americans who watched online livestreams of Mr. Trump’s remarks. It was Mr. Trump’s first formal Oval Office address, and he thanked supporters afterward on Twitter “for soooo many nice comments.” “A very interesting experience!” the president wrote. Supported by By Annie Karni and Maggie Haberman WASHINGTON — The case was closed for President Trump on March 24, the day Attorney General William P. Barr delivered to Congress his four-page summary of the special counsel’s 300-plus page report. “No Collusion, No Obstruction, Complete and Total EXONERATION,” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter that day. And in the weeks that followed, the president’s message of vindication and revenge on his political antagonists has only intensified, as he has expressed no interest in reading the full report and leveled charges of treason against Democratic lawmakers. Mr. Barr’s letter effectively emboldened Mr. Trump, aides said, even as they prepare for new details to emerge from a redacted version of the report — expected this week — that could renew questions about the president’s fitness for office, and even as some of them cringe at Mr. Trump’s choice of the word “exonerate.” (Privately, they admit, they would prefer he use the word “vindicate.”) But Mr. Trump’s mood has been lighter since the report was filed, people close to him said, even though neither he nor his White House lawyers have seen the full document, or at this point plan to do so before it is released to Congress and to the public. People close to Mr. Trump said they have noticed an increase in his confidence after he spent months feeling weighed down by a loss of control. “When they began to go after people he knew personally, who had worked for him for years, I think it gnawed at him, and I think he felt helpless,” said Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker and a confidant of Mr. Trump’s. But since Mr. Barr issued his letter, the president has felt liberated and has been testing his bounds. He has poked fun at Joseph R. Biden Jr., the former vice president considering a presidential run, for his handsy approach to politics, despite his own troubled history with women. He has floated the idea of a pardon for Kevin McAleenan, now his acting homeland security secretary, if he encountered any legal problems in shutting the southwestern border. And he has heightened his attacks on the press beyond his normal refrain of “fake news,” falsely claiming that journalists are “knowingly” bending the truth. Now, as Mr. Barr prepares to submit a redacted version of the report, Mr. Trump’s plan of attack, aides said, is to act as if the report itself is extraneous to Mr. Barr’s brief letter. “The bottom line: The result is no collusion, no obstruction, and that’s the way it is,” the president told reporters on Thursday. He said that Democrats “know it’s all a big scam, a big hoax” and that he believed what they were doing was “actually treason.” Days earlier, en route to Texas, Mr. Trump told reporters: “I don’t care about the Mueller report. I’ve been totally exonerated.” Mr. Trump is purposefully escalating his language, people who know him said, expressly to enliven his base of supporters and to enrage his political rivals and the news media. He has revived an idea that his administration rejected — sending immigrant detainees to so-called sanctuary cities — in part, people close to him said, to distract from the report. “The president clearly feels vindicated now that the Mueller report is completed,” said Eric Bolling, a former Fox News host, who recently taped a radio interview with Mr. Trump. “He will continue to remind the American people he was correct about there being no evidence of collusion with Russia.” Other outside surrogates have been echoing Mr. Trump’s line — that the narrative has already been established and it is too late for new facts to change that — even though members of the special counsel’s team have expressed concern that Mr. Barr’s letter did not accurately portray the contents of the report. “The facts are that there was no collusion between the 2016 Trump campaign and Russia, no obstruction of justice and President Trump has been fully vindicated,” said Boris Epshteyn, a former White House aide who now serves as the chief political commentator for Sinclair Broadcast Group. “No amount of spin by the opponents is going to change that.” But critics said the strategy is classic Trump — effective with a narrow audience, but ultimately self-limiting. “He will probably have succeeded in setting the narrative for his core supporters and hardening their attitudes, but at the expense of anyone else believing him when the report comes out and inevitably undermines what he’s been claiming,” said Matthew Miller, a Justice Department spokesman under former President Barack Obama. “The same things that solidify his base just prevent him from expanding beyond it at all.” Neal K. Katyal, who served as acting solicitor general in the Obama administration, said that such an approach could backfire. “Whatever Trump may have thought when he claimed total exoneration two weeks ago, subsequent events strongly suggest that claim will fall flat on its face,” he said. “And because Trump claimed total exoneration from the report, he created massive public pressure for the full report to be released.” Inside the White House, there is only a bare-bones plan in place for how to handle the release of the redacted report, people familiar with the matter said. Emmet T. Flood, the White House counsel, is expected to spend the day reading the report and to brief the president on its findings. The White House has not asked to read the report in advance, and aides are planning to speed read. They intend to all but skip the sections related to potential criminal conspiracy, and instead zoom in on two outstanding questions that Mr. Trump himself wants to ignore: why Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, was not able to conclude whether Mr. Trump obstructed justice, and what the attorney general meant when he wrote in his letter that “much” of the president’s conduct was public — meaning some of it was not. But many acknowledge they are still operating largely in the dark, with guesswork about what the report will reveal about Mr. Trump’s behavior in office. Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer, Jay Sekulow, would not disclose how the legal team plans to address the report, but he said it would be similar to how the White House responded after Mr. Barr sent his summary to Congress. “Our goal is to respond as quick as we can; given the length of the report, it may take some time to respond,” Mr. Sekulow said. “But we have a plan in place to respond in a professional manner as quickly and appropriately as possible.” Mr. Trump’s top aides and some relatives have also been eager for their own vindication. After months of being mocked by reporters for his seemingly off-script moments, Rudolph W. Giuliani, one of the president’s lawyers, recently texted an article in The Federalist titled “Rudy Giuliani Knew Exactly What He Was Doing” to a wide list of journalists. Jared Kushner, the president’s son-in-law and a senior White House adviser, who was believed to have been a focus of investigators, made a rare appearance on Fox News last week and insisted he never had any real concern. “I was never worried, because I never thought the notion that we did that,” Mr. Kushner said, referring to whether the campaign conspired with Russia to win the 2016 presidential election. “We ran a great campaign. The president had a great message, and that’s why we won.” Mr. Kushner, who faced difficulties getting a security clearance and was ultimately granted one on the president’s orders, added, “Over the last few years that I’ve been here, I’ve been accused of all different types of things, and all of those things have turned out to be false.” The White House press secretary, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, appearing on “Fox News Sunday,” reinforced the idea that Mr. Trump has been emboldened by Mr. Barr’s summary, pushing back when the show’s host, Chris Wallace, asked, “How are you going to deal with some evidence that’s going to come out in this report that clearly is going to be damaging to the president?” “I don’t think it is going to be damaging,” Ms. Sanders said. “We consider this to be case closed.” Annie Karni reported from Washington, and Maggie Haberman from New York. Chris Cameron contributed reporting from Washington. video 

Supported by By Annie Karni and Maggie Haberman WASHINGTON — The case was closed for President Trump on March 24, the day Attorney General William P. Barr delivered to Congress his four-page summary of the special counsel’s 300-plus page report. “No Collusion, No Obstruction, Complete and Total EXONERATION,” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter that day. And in the weeks that followed, the president’s message of vindication and revenge on his political antagonists has only intensified, as he has expressed no interest in reading the full report and leveled charges of treason against Democratic lawmakers. Mr. Barr’s letter effectively emboldened Mr. Trump, aides said, even as they prepare for new details to emerge from a redacted version of the report — expected this week — that could renew questions about the president’s fitness for office, and even as some of them cringe at Mr. Trump’s choice of the word “exonerate.” (Privately, they admit, they would prefer he use the word “vindicate.”) But Mr. Trump’s mood has been lighter since the report was filed, people close to him said, even though neither he nor his White House lawyers have seen the full document, or at this point plan to do so before it is released to Congress and to the public. People close to Mr. Trump said they have noticed an increase in his confidence after he spent months feeling weighed down by a loss of control. “When they began to go after people he knew personally, who had worked for him for years, I think it gnawed at him, and I think he felt helpless,” said Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker and a confidant of Mr. Trump’s. But since Mr. Barr issued his letter, the president has felt liberated and has been testing his bounds. He has poked fun at Joseph R. Biden Jr., the former vice president considering a presidential run, for his handsy approach to politics, despite his own troubled history with women. He has floated the idea of a pardon for Kevin McAleenan, now his acting homeland security secretary, if he encountered any legal problems in shutting the southwestern border. And he has heightened his attacks on the press beyond his normal refrain of “fake news,” falsely claiming that journalists are “knowingly” bending the truth. Now, as Mr. Barr prepares to submit a redacted version of the report, Mr. Trump’s plan of attack, aides said, is to act as if the report itself is extraneous to Mr. Barr’s brief letter. “The bottom line: The result is no collusion, no obstruction, and that’s the way it is,” the president told reporters on Thursday. He said that Democrats “know it’s all a big scam, a big hoax” and that he believed what they were doing was “actually treason.” Days earlier, en route to Texas, Mr. Trump told reporters: “I don’t care about the Mueller report. I’ve been totally exonerated.” Mr. Trump is purposefully escalating his language, people who know him said, expressly to enliven his base of supporters and to enrage his political rivals and the news media. He has revived an idea that his administration rejected — sending immigrant detainees to so-called sanctuary cities — in part, people close to him said, to distract from the report. “The president clearly feels vindicated now that the Mueller report is completed,” said Eric Bolling, a former Fox News host, who recently taped a radio interview with Mr. Trump. “He will continue to remind the American people he was correct about there being no evidence of collusion with Russia.” Other outside surrogates have been echoing Mr. Trump’s line — that the narrative has already been established and it is too late for new facts to change that — even though members of the special counsel’s team have expressed concern that Mr. Barr’s letter did not accurately portray the contents of the report. “The facts are that there was no collusion between the 2016 Trump campaign and Russia, no obstruction of justice and President Trump has been fully vindicated,” said Boris Epshteyn, a former White House aide who now serves as the chief political commentator for Sinclair Broadcast Group. “No amount of spin by the opponents is going to change that.” But critics said the strategy is classic Trump — effective with a narrow audience, but ultimately self-limiting. “He will probably have succeeded in setting the narrative for his core supporters and hardening their attitudes, but at the expense of anyone else believing him when the report comes out and inevitably undermines what he’s been claiming,” said Matthew Miller, a Justice Department spokesman under former President Barack Obama. “The same things that solidify his base just prevent him from expanding beyond it at all.” Neal K. Katyal, who served as acting solicitor general in the Obama administration, said that such an approach could backfire. “Whatever Trump may have thought when he claimed total exoneration two weeks ago, subsequent events strongly suggest that claim will fall flat on its face,” he said. “And because Trump claimed total exoneration from the report, he created massive public pressure for the full report to be released.” Inside the White House, there is only a bare-bones plan in place for how to handle the release of the redacted report, people familiar with the matter said. Emmet T. Flood, the White House counsel, is expected to spend the day reading the report and to brief the president on its findings. The White House has not asked to read the report in advance, and aides are planning to speed read. They intend to all but skip the sections related to potential criminal conspiracy, and instead zoom in on two outstanding questions that Mr. Trump himself wants to ignore: why Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, was not able to conclude whether Mr. Trump obstructed justice, and what the attorney general meant when he wrote in his letter that “much” of the president’s conduct was public — meaning some of it was not. But many acknowledge they are still operating largely in the dark, with guesswork about what the report will reveal about Mr. Trump’s behavior in office. Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer, Jay Sekulow, would not disclose how the legal team plans to address the report, but he said it would be similar to how the White House responded after Mr. Barr sent his summary to Congress. “Our goal is to respond as quick as we can; given the length of the report, it may take some time to respond,” Mr. Sekulow said. “But we have a plan in place to respond in a professional manner as quickly and appropriately as possible.” Mr. Trump’s top aides and some relatives have also been eager for their own vindication. After months of being mocked by reporters for his seemingly off-script moments, Rudolph W. Giuliani, one of the president’s lawyers, recently texted an article in The Federalist titled “Rudy Giuliani Knew Exactly What He Was Doing” to a wide list of journalists. Jared Kushner, the president’s son-in-law and a senior White House adviser, who was believed to have been a focus of investigators, made a rare appearance on Fox News last week and insisted he never had any real concern. “I was never worried, because I never thought the notion that we did that,” Mr. Kushner said, referring to whether the campaign conspired with Russia to win the 2016 presidential election. “We ran a great campaign. The president had a great message, and that’s why we won.” Mr. Kushner, who faced difficulties getting a security clearance and was ultimately granted one on the president’s orders, added, “Over the last few years that I’ve been here, I’ve been accused of all different types of things, and all of those things have turned out to be false.” The White House press secretary, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, appearing on “Fox News Sunday,” reinforced the idea that Mr. Trump has been emboldened by Mr. Barr’s summary, pushing back when the show’s host, Chris Wallace, asked, “How are you going to deal with some evidence that’s going to come out in this report that clearly is going to be damaging to the president?” “I don’t think it is going to be damaging,” Ms. Sanders said. “We consider this to be case closed.” Annie Karni reported from Washington, and Maggie Haberman from New York. Chris Cameron contributed reporting from Washington. video Supported by By Sarah Mervosh The special counsel’s report confirmed this week that Seth Rich, a young Democratic National Committee employee whose unsolved killing became grist for a right-wing conspiracy theory, was not the source of thousands of internal D.N.C. emails that WikiLeaks released during the 2016 presidential race, officially debunking a notion that had persisted without support for years. Tucked amid hundreds of pages of the report’s main findings, the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, took aim at WikiLeaks and its founder, Julian Assange, for falsely implying that Mr. Rich was somehow involved in the dissemination of the emails, an act that aided President Trump’s campaign. “WikiLeaks and Assange made several public statements apparently designed to obscure the source of the materials that WikiLeaks was releasing,” according to the report, which showed that WikiLeaks corresponded with the true source of the leaked emails — Russian hackers — after Mr. Rich’s death. The confirmation comes after years of anguish for Mr. Rich’s family, who fought attempts to politicize and spread misinformation about his killing, which is believed to have happened during a bungled robbery attempt. The theory linking Mr. Rich to the email leak took root in conservative circles and was cited by prominent conservatives like Newt Gingrich and right-wing commentators like Rush Limbaugh, Sean Hannity and Alex Jones of Infowars. WikiLeaks offered a $20,000 reward for information about Mr. Rich’s killing, fueling speculation that he was the source. Fox News also published an article, which the network later retracted, suggesting that Mr. Rich was killed in retaliation for having leaked the emails. In a statement, Mr. Rich’s brother, Aaron Rich, responded to the special counsel’s report, saying it provided “hard facts that demonstrate this conspiracy is false.” “I hope that the people who pushed, fueled, spread, ran headlines, articles, interviews, talk and opinion shows, or in any way used my family’s tragedy to advance their political agendas — despite our pleas that what they were saying was not based on any facts — will take responsibility for the unimaginable pain they have caused us,” he said. Mr. Rich was 27 when he died after being shot on the streets of Washington on July 10, 2016. On July 14, WikiLeaks received an encrypted file from Russian hackers, according to the report. The organization published thousands of internal D.N.C. emails later that month, just days ahead of the Democratic convention. “That chronology is damning,” Mike Gottlieb, a lawyer for Aaron Rich, said, pointing out that Mr. Rich had already been killed when the file was sent. In statements beginning that summer, Mr. Assange and WikiLeaks “implied falsely” that Mr. Rich had been the source of the emails, the special counsel’s report said. In addition to the $20,000 reward, Mr. Assange said in an interview that he was interested in Mr. Rich’s death because “we’re very interested in anything that might be a threat to alleged WikiLeaks sources,” according to the report. Even after intelligence officials announced that Russia was behind the email hacking, Mr. Assange continued to deny Russian involvement and told a congressman that the D.N.C. hack was an “inside job,” according to the report. “Assange did untold damage to a grieving family in order to try and hide his work with Russian intelligence,” Brad Bauman, a former spokesman for Mr. Rich’s family, said in a statement after the release of the report. “He is a monster, not a journalist,” he added. Mr. Assange, whose release of secret government documents has spurred debate about press freedom issues, spent seven years holed up in the Ecuadorean Embassy in Britain before he was arrested this month on a charge of conspiring to hack into a Pentagon computer network in 2010. The charge is not related to WikiLeaks’ role in Russia’s operations to sabotage the election. Though Mr. Rich’s killing remains unsolved, the special counsel’s findings could begin to ease the pain for his family, who have described the anguish of having to watch his life and death be treated like a “political football.” His parents, Joel and Mary Rich, sued Fox News last year, claiming that the network’s coverage helped fuel damaging rumors about their son. A judge, while expressing sympathy for the family, dismissed the case because the parents had not been personally defamed by the story, despite the fact that it included “false statements or misrepresentations.” The judge noted that Mr. Rich could not be defamed by the story under New York law because he was dead. Aaron Rich is also suing for defamation over theories that falsely implicate him, purporting that he helped steal the data and cover up his brother’s killing. He accepted an apology and retraction from The Washington Times last year as part of a settlement. Mr. Gottlieb, his lawyer, said that while it was gratifying for his client to see the Mueller report lay to rest any lingering conspiracy theories, Mr. Rich was still grappling with the loss of his brother, who was the best man at his wedding. “The picture of Seth and Aaron at Aaron’s wedding is one a bunch of conspiracy theorists have used as memes,” he said. “Aaron has been called a traitor,” Mr. Gottlieb added. “He is being called every imaginable awful name you can think of and he’s never had the opportunity to grieve.” In his statement, Aaron Rich vowed to continue fighting. “We will continue to pursue justice for Seth’s murderers,” he said, “as well as those who used his murder to advance their personal or political agendas.” Follow Sarah Mervosh on Twitter: @smervosh.    

Supported by By Sarah Mervosh The special counsel’s report confirmed this week that Seth Rich, a young Democratic National Committee employee whose unsolved killing became grist for a right-wing conspiracy theory, was not the source of thousands of internal D.N.C. emails that WikiLeaks released during the 2016 presidential race, officially debunking a notion that had persisted without support for years. Tucked amid hundreds of pages of the report’s main findings, the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, took aim at WikiLeaks and its founder, Julian Assange, for falsely implying that Mr. Rich was somehow involved in the dissemination of the emails, an act that aided President Trump’s campaign. “WikiLeaks and Assange made several public statements apparently designed to obscure the source of the materials that WikiLeaks was releasing,” according to the report, which showed that WikiLeaks corresponded with the true source of the leaked emails — Russian hackers — after Mr. Rich’s death. The confirmation comes after years of anguish for Mr. Rich’s family, who fought attempts to politicize and spread misinformation about his killing, which is believed to have happened during a bungled robbery attempt. The theory linking Mr. Rich to the email leak took root in conservative circles and was cited by prominent conservatives like Newt Gingrich and right-wing commentators like Rush Limbaugh, Sean Hannity and Alex Jones of Infowars. WikiLeaks offered a $20,000 reward for information about Mr. Rich’s killing, fueling speculation that he was the source. Fox News also published an article, which the network later retracted, suggesting that Mr. Rich was killed in retaliation for having leaked the emails. In a statement, Mr. Rich’s brother, Aaron Rich, responded to the special counsel’s report, saying it provided “hard facts that demonstrate this conspiracy is false.” “I hope that the people who pushed, fueled, spread, ran headlines, articles, interviews, talk and opinion shows, or in any way used my family’s tragedy to advance their political agendas — despite our pleas that what they were saying was not based on any facts — will take responsibility for the unimaginable pain they have caused us,” he said. Mr. Rich was 27 when he died after being shot on the streets of Washington on July 10, 2016. On July 14, WikiLeaks received an encrypted file from Russian hackers, according to the report. The organization published thousands of internal D.N.C. emails later that month, just days ahead of the Democratic convention. “That chronology is damning,” Mike Gottlieb, a lawyer for Aaron Rich, said, pointing out that Mr. Rich had already been killed when the file was sent. In statements beginning that summer, Mr. Assange and WikiLeaks “implied falsely” that Mr. Rich had been the source of the emails, the special counsel’s report said. In addition to the $20,000 reward, Mr. Assange said in an interview that he was interested in Mr. Rich’s death because “we’re very interested in anything that might be a threat to alleged WikiLeaks sources,” according to the report. Even after intelligence officials announced that Russia was behind the email hacking, Mr. Assange continued to deny Russian involvement and told a congressman that the D.N.C. hack was an “inside job,” according to the report. “Assange did untold damage to a grieving family in order to try and hide his work with Russian intelligence,” Brad Bauman, a former spokesman for Mr. Rich’s family, said in a statement after the release of the report. “He is a monster, not a journalist,” he added. Mr. Assange, whose release of secret government documents has spurred debate about press freedom issues, spent seven years holed up in the Ecuadorean Embassy in Britain before he was arrested this month on a charge of conspiring to hack into a Pentagon computer network in 2010. The charge is not related to WikiLeaks’ role in Russia’s operations to sabotage the election. Though Mr. Rich’s killing remains unsolved, the special counsel’s findings could begin to ease the pain for his family, who have described the anguish of having to watch his life and death be treated like a “political football.” His parents, Joel and Mary Rich, sued Fox News last year, claiming that the network’s coverage helped fuel damaging rumors about their son. A judge, while expressing sympathy for the family, dismissed the case because the parents had not been personally defamed by the story, despite the fact that it included “false statements or misrepresentations.” The judge noted that Mr. Rich could not be defamed by the story under New York law because he was dead. Aaron Rich is also suing for defamation over theories that falsely implicate him, purporting that he helped steal the data and cover up his brother’s killing. He accepted an apology and retraction from The Washington Times last year as part of a settlement. Mr. Gottlieb, his lawyer, said that while it was gratifying for his client to see the Mueller report lay to rest any lingering conspiracy theories, Mr. Rich was still grappling with the loss of his brother, who was the best man at his wedding. “The picture of Seth and Aaron at Aaron’s wedding is one a bunch of conspiracy theorists have used as memes,” he said. “Aaron has been called a traitor,” Mr. Gottlieb added. “He is being called every imaginable awful name you can think of and he’s never had the opportunity to grieve.” In his statement, Aaron Rich vowed to continue fighting. “We will continue to pursue justice for Seth’s murderers,” he said, “as well as those who used his murder to advance their personal or political agendas.” Follow Sarah Mervosh on Twitter: @smervosh.    Supported by By Kaly Soto Welcome to the weekend. In the Northeast, spring was trying hard to begin. In the news, the jobs numbers looked good, and The Times took a deep dive into the Murdoch family. Take some time and catch up with some great journalism. Murdoch and his children have toppled governments on two continents and destabilized the most important democracy on earth. What do they want? [Also watch: “The Night Fox News and Trump Became One”] ____ It turned out the killer of a Ukrainian electrician was working for Russian intelligence agents. ____ Recent data — and interviews with a dozen teenagers on the front lines of politics — show a decided leftward lean. ____ ____ A police state reaches new heights. ____ Since a Saudi royal, most likely the crown prince, paid $450 million for “Salvator Mundi,” it has vanished from view, and museums hoping to show it say they don’t know where it is. ____ Going from George Bush to the choreographer Bob Fosse? Now that’s a ball change! ____ She faced constant sexual harassment in the corps. It was a side of the military neither of them wanted to see. ____ The Asian nation is a hot spot of biological diversity, but local and international conservation groups are struggling to halt what amounts to animal genocide. ____ The extremely loud and incredibly expensive renovations that have shattered a formerly quiet residential block in Manhattan. ____ It’s not just sex and sleep that change as you age. It’s supper. Follow me on Twitter (kalyTsoto) for more great reads.

Supported by By Kaly Soto Welcome to the weekend. In the Northeast, spring was trying hard to begin. In the news, the jobs numbers looked good, and The Times took a deep dive into the Murdoch family. Take some time and catch up with some great journalism. Murdoch and his children have toppled governments on two continents and destabilized the most important democracy on earth. What do they want? [Also watch: “The Night Fox News and Trump Became One”] ____ It turned out the killer of a Ukrainian electrician was working for Russian intelligence agents. ____ Recent data — and interviews with a dozen teenagers on the front lines of politics — show a decided leftward lean. ____ ____ A police state reaches new heights. ____ Since a Saudi royal, most likely the crown prince, paid $450 million for “Salvator Mundi,” it has vanished from view, and museums hoping to show it say they don’t know where it is. ____ Going from George Bush to the choreographer Bob Fosse? Now that’s a ball change! ____ She faced constant sexual harassment in the corps. It was a side of the military neither of them wanted to see. ____ The Asian nation is a hot spot of biological diversity, but local and international conservation groups are struggling to halt what amounts to animal genocide. ____ The extremely loud and incredibly expensive renovations that have shattered a formerly quiet residential block in Manhattan. ____ It’s not just sex and sleep that change as you age. It’s supper. Follow me on Twitter (kalyTsoto) for more great reads.Supported by His populist attacks on the priorities of the “ruling class” have set off a maelstrom. By Thomas B. Edsall Mr. Edsall contributes a weekly column from Washington, D.C. on politics, demographics and inequality. Competing notions of American national identity are coming to dominate American politics. On Jan. 2, a searing Tucker Carlson monologue on Fox News resonated across every corner of the conservative movement. “The goal for America is both simpler and more elusive than mere prosperity,” Carlson told his audience. “Dignity. Purpose. Self-control. Independence. Above all, deep relationships with other people.” President Trump is one of the most dedicated Fox viewers in the country. Carlson went on: Our leaders don’t care. We are ruled by mercenaries who feel no long-term obligation to the people they rule. They’re day traders. Substitute teachers. They’re just passing through. They have no skin in this game, and it shows. They can’t solve our problems. They don’t even bother to understand our problems. Carlson, who is in a ratings race with both his Fox colleague Sean Hannity and MSNBC’s Rachel Maddow, argued that many conservatives have scant understanding of the adversity faced by members of the working and lower middle class in America: The idea that families are being crushed by market forces seems never to occur to them. They refuse to consider it. Questioning markets feels like apostasy. Both sides miss the obvious point: Culture and economics are inseparably intertwined. Certain economic systems allow families to thrive. Thriving families make market economies possible. Carlson pointed specifically to problems faced by rural white America, the crucial base of Republican voters: “Stunning out of wedlock birthrates. High male unemployment. A terrifying drug epidemic.” How, Carlson asked, “did this happen?”  You’d think our ruling class would be interested in knowing the answer. But mostly they’re not. They don’t have to be interested. It’s easier to import foreign labor to take the place of native-born Americans who are slipping behind. Despite this failing of conservatism, Carlson contended that only the Republican Party can lead the country back to salvation: There’s no option at this point. But first, Republican leaders will have to acknowledge that market capitalism is not a religion. Market capitalism is a tool, like a staple gun or a toaster. You’d have to be a fool to worship it. Our system was created by human beings for the benefit of human beings. We do not exist to serve markets. Just the opposite. Any economic system that weakens and destroys families is not worth having. A system like that is the enemy of a healthy society. The Carlson monologue became an extended subject of debate, which my Times colleague Ross Douthat also examined. For example, in “The Right Should Reject Tucker Carlson’s Victimhood Populism,” David French, a senior writer at National Review, argued that “it is still true that your choices are far more important to your success than any government program or the actions of any nefarious banker or any malicious feminist.” “If an obscure senator gave this speech, he’d be famous overnight,” Kyle Smith, a critic at large for National Review, wrote the next day. “Carlson scores some major points, and like most great speeches this one can’t easily be dismissed as either left or right-wing.” Carlson touched nerves well outside conservative circles. I asked Dean Baker, co-founder of the liberal Center for Economic and Policy Research, for his response to the monologue. He replied: “It’s a bit scary to me how much of this I agree with.” Baker quibbled with some minor points, but ignoring these off the mark comments, he is absolutely right that the leadership of both parties has largely embraced an agenda that serves the rich with little concern for average workers. In addition to Carlson, one of the most engaged critics of the Republican establishment is Oren Cass, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute and the author of “The Once and Future Worker.” In his book, Cass faults both parties, but his condemnation of the Democratic Party is far harsher than his critique of the Republican Party: Republicans have generally trusted that free markets will benefit all participants, prized the higher output associated with an ‘efficient’ outcome, and expressed skepticism that political actors could identify and pursue better outcomes, even if any existed. Their labor-market policy could best be described as one of benign neglect. Democrats, in contrast, can sound committed to a more worker-centric model of growth, but rather than trusting the market too much, they trample it. The party’s actual agenda centers on the interests advanced by its coalition of labor unions, environmentalists, and identity groups. Its policies rely on an expectation that government mandates and programs will deliver what the market does not. This agenda inserts countless regulatory wedges that aim to improve the conditions of employment but in the process raise its cost, driving apart the players that the market is attempting to connect. In a Salon review of “The Once and Future Worker,” Samuel Hammond, director of welfare policy at the libertarian Niskanen Center — a Washington a think tank I described last week — writes: Indeed, far from the usual conservative manifesto, ‘The Once and Future Worker,’ is a scathing critique of globalization, open immigration, and the commoditization of labor — forces which Cass believes have ransacked working class fortunes across three decades of neoliberal hegemony. Cass is eager to place himself at the disposal of both parties. He was one of 13 ideologically ambidextrous authors of a joint Brookings-American Enterprise Institute report, “Work, Skills, Community: Restoring Opportunity for the Working Class.” The November 2018 study pointed to areas of concord between segments of the right and the left. The 13 authors found common ground on a set of proposals that call for both more spending and tougher work requirements. These proposals include expanding the earned-income tax credit to cover childless workers, including experimenting with a new wage subsidy; getting recipients of government subsidies back to work, including beneficiaries of means-tested government programs; and enlarging eligibility for the child and dependent care tax credit. While it is possible, in theory, that Carlson and Cass could support Democratic candidates, they sharply disagree with the Democratic Party on the highly salient issue of immigration. In his book, Cass writes: The United States should limit increases in its supply of unskilled immigrant labor. This new approach would require first and foremost that criteria for allowing entrance into the country emphasize education level — attainment of a college degree, in particular. In the case of undocumented immigrants, Cass’s policy would be to “require unskilled illegal immigrants to leave.” Carlson is more extreme. On Dec. 4, Carlson told viewers that “a new analysis of census data shows that sixty-three percent of noncitizens in the U.S. receive some kind of welfare benefits,” before adding: Every night, hundreds of thousands of our citizens, Americans, sleep outdoors on the street, they’re homeless. The country’s middle class is shrinking and dying younger. The third year in a row. Again, these are American citizens. Some of them probably think they should have first dibs on help from the government, but they’re not getting it. Later that month, Carlson escalated his claim that immigration was too costly for Americans: It’s indefensible, so nobody even tries to defend it. Instead, our leaders demand that you shut up and accept this. We have a moral obligation to admit the world’s poor, they tell us, even if it makes our own country poor and dirtier and more divided. These comments proved highly controversial, to say the least. According to Business Insider, 16 companies stopped advertising on “The Tucker Carlson Show.” Michael Massing, a New York-based writer who often reports on the intersection of media and politics, watched Carlson for several nights after the January monologue in an attempt to assess where Carlson really stood. In a Feb. 2 article in the Guardian, Massing wrote: Overall, his show continues to transmit Fox’s toxic blend of race-baiting and reality distortion, through which it has done so much to poison the American mind. What, then, to make of Carlson? Is he a cynic? A hypocrite? A headlong pursuer of ratings? Perhaps he’s best described as a charter member of the same ruling class that in his monologue he indicted for working so intently to divide and confuse the American people. In addition to the discrete conservative factions Cass and Carlson represent, there is another dissident wing of conservatism, represented by the Niskanen Center, which attempts to appeal to moderates and centrists of both parties. “Working within the broad and diverse intellectual tradition of liberalism, we are fashioning a new synthesis that closes the rift within that tradition that emerged over the question of socialism,” Brink Lindsey, the center’s vice president for policy, wrote in an essay seeking to explain the broad goals of the organization. Lindsey, in contrast to Cass, is far more critical of the contemporary right than of the left. Over the course of the 21st century, the conservative movement, and with it the Republican Party, has fallen ever more deeply under the sway of an illiberal and nihilistic populism — illiberal in its crude exploitation of religious, racial, and cultural divisions; nihilistic in its blithe indifference to governance and the established norms and institutions of representative self-government. This malignant development made possible the nomination and election of Donald Trump, whose two years in power have only accelerated conservatism’s and the GOP’s descent into the intellectual and moral gutter. Despite his severe view of the Republican Party, Lindsey contends that the goal of the Niskanen think tank is the “reimagining of the center-right”: It is our goal to make the case for a principled center-right in American politics today that is distinctly different from either movement conservatism or its degenerate, populist offshoot. One question, of course is, what kind of policy options a center-right think tank can offer to disaffected voters on matters involving race and immigration, subjects that help drive the very polarization they regret. One of Tucker Carlson’s own primary concerns is immigration — and, as a likely subtext, race. Carlson argues that capitalism is “not a religion but a tool like a toaster or staple gun.” He is focusing attention, in fact, on the godless capitalism that Will Wilkinson of the Niskanen Center, described in “How Godless Capitalism Made America Multicultural” — a problem that Wilkinson correctly points out affects “all wealthy, liberal-democratic countries.” Wilkinson explains: The project of fashioning an ethnoreligious American identity has always been in conflict with a dominant and defining American impulse: to get rich. The United States has always been a distinctly commercial republic with expansionary, imperial impulses. High demand for workers and settlers led early on to a variegated population that encouraged the idea, largely traceable to Tom Paine, that American national identity is civic and ideological rather than racial and ethnic. Contemporary political polarization reflects the intensification of the endless struggle to integrate America and, more recently, to assimilate millions of newcomers, some legal, some not. Wilkinson addresses this conundrum: Assimilation is an issue not because it isn’t happening, but because it is. The issue is that the post-1968 immigrants and their progeny are here at all. And their successful assimilation means that American culture, and American national identity, has already been updated and transformed. This process can be very hard for some people, especially white voters over 50 (a strong Trump constituency) to accept: Swift and dramatic cultural changes can leave us with the baffled feeling that the soil in which we laid down roots has somehow become foreign. Older people who have largely lost the capacity to easily assimilate to a new culture can feel that the rug has been pulled out from under them. The result, according to Wilkinson, to whom I will give the last word, is that rapid cultural change can make a truly common national identity hard to come by, if not impossible. It’s not clear to me how important it is to have one. But it does seem that a badly bifurcated cultural self-understanding can have very dramatic and potentially dangerous political consequences. David Cameron imperiled the integrity of the entire European Union by fundamentally misunderstanding the facts about the evolution of British national identity and putting it up for a vote. Donald Trump, you may have noticed, has called for a referendum on American national identity, and he’s getting one. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Thomas B. Edsall has been a contributor to The Times Opinion section since 2011. His column on strategic and demographic trends in American politics appears every Wednesday. He previously covered politics for The Washington Post.   @edsall 

Supported by His populist attacks on the priorities of the “ruling class” have set off a maelstrom. By Thomas B. Edsall Mr. Edsall contributes a weekly column from Washington, D.C. on politics, demographics and inequality. Competing notions of American national identity are coming to dominate American politics. On Jan. 2, a searing Tucker Carlson monologue on Fox News resonated across every corner of the conservative movement. “The goal for America is both simpler and more elusive than mere prosperity,” Carlson told his audience. “Dignity. Purpose. Self-control. Independence. Above all, deep relationships with other people.” President Trump is one of the most dedicated Fox viewers in the country. Carlson went on: Our leaders don’t care. We are ruled by mercenaries who feel no long-term obligation to the people they rule. They’re day traders. Substitute teachers. They’re just passing through. They have no skin in this game, and it shows. They can’t solve our problems. They don’t even bother to understand our problems. Carlson, who is in a ratings race with both his Fox colleague Sean Hannity and MSNBC’s Rachel Maddow, argued that many conservatives have scant understanding of the adversity faced by members of the working and lower middle class in America: The idea that families are being crushed by market forces seems never to occur to them. They refuse to consider it. Questioning markets feels like apostasy. Both sides miss the obvious point: Culture and economics are inseparably intertwined. Certain economic systems allow families to thrive. Thriving families make market economies possible. Carlson pointed specifically to problems faced by rural white America, the crucial base of Republican voters: “Stunning out of wedlock birthrates. High male unemployment. A terrifying drug epidemic.” How, Carlson asked, “did this happen?”  You’d think our ruling class would be interested in knowing the answer. But mostly they’re not. They don’t have to be interested. It’s easier to import foreign labor to take the place of native-born Americans who are slipping behind. Despite this failing of conservatism, Carlson contended that only the Republican Party can lead the country back to salvation: There’s no option at this point. But first, Republican leaders will have to acknowledge that market capitalism is not a religion. Market capitalism is a tool, like a staple gun or a toaster. You’d have to be a fool to worship it. Our system was created by human beings for the benefit of human beings. We do not exist to serve markets. Just the opposite. Any economic system that weakens and destroys families is not worth having. A system like that is the enemy of a healthy society. The Carlson monologue became an extended subject of debate, which my Times colleague Ross Douthat also examined. For example, in “The Right Should Reject Tucker Carlson’s Victimhood Populism,” David French, a senior writer at National Review, argued that “it is still true that your choices are far more important to your success than any government program or the actions of any nefarious banker or any malicious feminist.” “If an obscure senator gave this speech, he’d be famous overnight,” Kyle Smith, a critic at large for National Review, wrote the next day. “Carlson scores some major points, and like most great speeches this one can’t easily be dismissed as either left or right-wing.” Carlson touched nerves well outside conservative circles. I asked Dean Baker, co-founder of the liberal Center for Economic and Policy Research, for his response to the monologue. He replied: “It’s a bit scary to me how much of this I agree with.” Baker quibbled with some minor points, but ignoring these off the mark comments, he is absolutely right that the leadership of both parties has largely embraced an agenda that serves the rich with little concern for average workers. In addition to Carlson, one of the most engaged critics of the Republican establishment is Oren Cass, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute and the author of “The Once and Future Worker.” In his book, Cass faults both parties, but his condemnation of the Democratic Party is far harsher than his critique of the Republican Party: Republicans have generally trusted that free markets will benefit all participants, prized the higher output associated with an ‘efficient’ outcome, and expressed skepticism that political actors could identify and pursue better outcomes, even if any existed. Their labor-market policy could best be described as one of benign neglect. Democrats, in contrast, can sound committed to a more worker-centric model of growth, but rather than trusting the market too much, they trample it. The party’s actual agenda centers on the interests advanced by its coalition of labor unions, environmentalists, and identity groups. Its policies rely on an expectation that government mandates and programs will deliver what the market does not. This agenda inserts countless regulatory wedges that aim to improve the conditions of employment but in the process raise its cost, driving apart the players that the market is attempting to connect. In a Salon review of “The Once and Future Worker,” Samuel Hammond, director of welfare policy at the libertarian Niskanen Center — a Washington a think tank I described last week — writes: Indeed, far from the usual conservative manifesto, ‘The Once and Future Worker,’ is a scathing critique of globalization, open immigration, and the commoditization of labor — forces which Cass believes have ransacked working class fortunes across three decades of neoliberal hegemony. Cass is eager to place himself at the disposal of both parties. He was one of 13 ideologically ambidextrous authors of a joint Brookings-American Enterprise Institute report, “Work, Skills, Community: Restoring Opportunity for the Working Class.” The November 2018 study pointed to areas of concord between segments of the right and the left. The 13 authors found common ground on a set of proposals that call for both more spending and tougher work requirements. These proposals include expanding the earned-income tax credit to cover childless workers, including experimenting with a new wage subsidy; getting recipients of government subsidies back to work, including beneficiaries of means-tested government programs; and enlarging eligibility for the child and dependent care tax credit. While it is possible, in theory, that Carlson and Cass could support Democratic candidates, they sharply disagree with the Democratic Party on the highly salient issue of immigration. In his book, Cass writes: The United States should limit increases in its supply of unskilled immigrant labor. This new approach would require first and foremost that criteria for allowing entrance into the country emphasize education level — attainment of a college degree, in particular. In the case of undocumented immigrants, Cass’s policy would be to “require unskilled illegal immigrants to leave.” Carlson is more extreme. On Dec. 4, Carlson told viewers that “a new analysis of census data shows that sixty-three percent of noncitizens in the U.S. receive some kind of welfare benefits,” before adding: Every night, hundreds of thousands of our citizens, Americans, sleep outdoors on the street, they’re homeless. The country’s middle class is shrinking and dying younger. The third year in a row. Again, these are American citizens. Some of them probably think they should have first dibs on help from the government, but they’re not getting it. Later that month, Carlson escalated his claim that immigration was too costly for Americans: It’s indefensible, so nobody even tries to defend it. Instead, our leaders demand that you shut up and accept this. We have a moral obligation to admit the world’s poor, they tell us, even if it makes our own country poor and dirtier and more divided. These comments proved highly controversial, to say the least. According to Business Insider, 16 companies stopped advertising on “The Tucker Carlson Show.” Michael Massing, a New York-based writer who often reports on the intersection of media and politics, watched Carlson for several nights after the January monologue in an attempt to assess where Carlson really stood. In a Feb. 2 article in the Guardian, Massing wrote: Overall, his show continues to transmit Fox’s toxic blend of race-baiting and reality distortion, through which it has done so much to poison the American mind. What, then, to make of Carlson? Is he a cynic? A hypocrite? A headlong pursuer of ratings? Perhaps he’s best described as a charter member of the same ruling class that in his monologue he indicted for working so intently to divide and confuse the American people. In addition to the discrete conservative factions Cass and Carlson represent, there is another dissident wing of conservatism, represented by the Niskanen Center, which attempts to appeal to moderates and centrists of both parties. “Working within the broad and diverse intellectual tradition of liberalism, we are fashioning a new synthesis that closes the rift within that tradition that emerged over the question of socialism,” Brink Lindsey, the center’s vice president for policy, wrote in an essay seeking to explain the broad goals of the organization. Lindsey, in contrast to Cass, is far more critical of the contemporary right than of the left. Over the course of the 21st century, the conservative movement, and with it the Republican Party, has fallen ever more deeply under the sway of an illiberal and nihilistic populism — illiberal in its crude exploitation of religious, racial, and cultural divisions; nihilistic in its blithe indifference to governance and the established norms and institutions of representative self-government. This malignant development made possible the nomination and election of Donald Trump, whose two years in power have only accelerated conservatism’s and the GOP’s descent into the intellectual and moral gutter. Despite his severe view of the Republican Party, Lindsey contends that the goal of the Niskanen think tank is the “reimagining of the center-right”: It is our goal to make the case for a principled center-right in American politics today that is distinctly different from either movement conservatism or its degenerate, populist offshoot. One question, of course is, what kind of policy options a center-right think tank can offer to disaffected voters on matters involving race and immigration, subjects that help drive the very polarization they regret. One of Tucker Carlson’s own primary concerns is immigration — and, as a likely subtext, race. Carlson argues that capitalism is “not a religion but a tool like a toaster or staple gun.” He is focusing attention, in fact, on the godless capitalism that Will Wilkinson of the Niskanen Center, described in “How Godless Capitalism Made America Multicultural” — a problem that Wilkinson correctly points out affects “all wealthy, liberal-democratic countries.” Wilkinson explains: The project of fashioning an ethnoreligious American identity has always been in conflict with a dominant and defining American impulse: to get rich. The United States has always been a distinctly commercial republic with expansionary, imperial impulses. High demand for workers and settlers led early on to a variegated population that encouraged the idea, largely traceable to Tom Paine, that American national identity is civic and ideological rather than racial and ethnic. Contemporary political polarization reflects the intensification of the endless struggle to integrate America and, more recently, to assimilate millions of newcomers, some legal, some not. Wilkinson addresses this conundrum: Assimilation is an issue not because it isn’t happening, but because it is. The issue is that the post-1968 immigrants and their progeny are here at all. And their successful assimilation means that American culture, and American national identity, has already been updated and transformed. This process can be very hard for some people, especially white voters over 50 (a strong Trump constituency) to accept: Swift and dramatic cultural changes can leave us with the baffled feeling that the soil in which we laid down roots has somehow become foreign. Older people who have largely lost the capacity to easily assimilate to a new culture can feel that the rug has been pulled out from under them. The result, according to Wilkinson, to whom I will give the last word, is that rapid cultural change can make a truly common national identity hard to come by, if not impossible. It’s not clear to me how important it is to have one. But it does seem that a badly bifurcated cultural self-understanding can have very dramatic and potentially dangerous political consequences. David Cameron imperiled the integrity of the entire European Union by fundamentally misunderstanding the facts about the evolution of British national identity and putting it up for a vote. Donald Trump, you may have noticed, has called for a referendum on American national identity, and he’s getting one. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Thomas B. Edsall has been a contributor to The Times Opinion section since 2011. His column on strategic and demographic trends in American politics appears every Wednesday. He previously covered politics for The Washington Post.   @edsall 

      By JONATHAN MAHLER and 
    
JIM RUTENBERG

APRIL 3, 2019
 
Murdoch and his children have toppled governments on two continents and destabilized the most important democracy on Earth. What do they want?
 

          
            Part 1: Imperial Reach
            
        
        Murdoch and his children have toppled governments on two continents and destabilized the most important democracy on Earth. What do they want?
          
       By JONATHAN MAHLER and JIM RUTENBERG APRIL 3, 2019 Rupert Murdoch was lying on the floor of his cabin, unable to move. It was January 2018, and Murdoch and his fourth wife, Jerry Hall, were spending the holidays cruising the Caribbean on his elder son Lachlan’s yacht. Lachlan had personally overseen the design of the 140-foot sloop — named Sarissa after a long and especially dangerous spear used by the armies of ancient Macedonia — ensuring that it would be suitable for family vacations while also remaining competitive in superyacht regattas. The cockpit could be transformed into a swimming pool. The ceiling in the children’s cabin became an illuminated facsimile of the nighttime sky, with separate switches for the Northern and Southern Hemispheres. A detachable board for practicing rock climbing, a passion of Lachlan’s, could be set up on the deck. But it was not the easiest environment for an 86-year-old man to negotiate. Murdoch tripped on his way to the bathroom in the middle of the night. Murdoch had fallen a couple of other times in recent years, once on the stairs while exiting a stage, another time on a carpet in a San Francisco hotel. The family prevented word from getting out on both occasions, but the incidents were concerning. This one seemed far more serious. Murdoch was stretchered off the Sarissa and flown to a hospital in Los Angeles. The doctors quickly spotted broken vertebrae, which required immediate surgery, as well as a spinal hematoma, increasing the risk of paralysis or even death. Hall called his adult children in a panic, urging them to come to California prepared to make peace with their father. Few private citizens have ever been more central to the state of world affairs than the man lying in that hospital bed, awaiting his children’s arrival. As the head of a sprawling global media empire, he commanded multiple television networks, a global news service, a major publishing house and a Hollywood movie studio. His newspapers and television networks had been instrumental in amplifying the nativist revolt that was reshaping governments not just in the United States but also across the planet. His 24-hour news-and-opinion network, the Fox News Channel, had by then fused with President Trump and his base of hard-core supporters, giving Murdoch an unparalleled degree of influence over the world’s most powerful democracy. In Britain, his London-based tabloid, The Sun, had recently led the historic Brexit crusade to drive the country out of the European Union — and, in the chaos that ensued, helped deliver Theresa May to 10 Downing Street. In Australia, where Murdoch’s power is most undiluted, his outlets had led an effort to repeal the country’s carbon tax — a first for any nation — and pushed out a series of prime ministers whose agenda didn’t comport with his own. And he was in the midst of the biggest deal of his life: Only a few weeks before his fall on Lachlan’s yacht, he shook hands on a London rooftop with Robert A. Iger, the chief executive of the Walt Disney Company, consummating a preliminary agreement to sell his TV and film studio, 21st Century Fox, to Disney for $52.4 billion. But control of this sprawling empire was suddenly up in the air. The four grown children had differing claims to the throne. The 61-year-old Prudence, the only child of Murdoch’s first marriage, to the Australian model Patricia Booker (whom he divorced in 1965), lived in Sydney and London and kept some distance from the family business. But the three children from Murdoch’s second marriage, to Anna Mann (whom he divorced in 1999), had spent at least parts of their lives jockeying to succeed their father. Elisabeth (50), Lachlan (47) and James (46) all grew up in the business. As children, they sat around the family’s breakfast table on Fifth Avenue, listening to their father’s tutorials on the morning papers: how the articles were selected and laid out, how many ad pages there were. All of them had imagined that his ever-growing company might one day belong to them. As friends of the Murdochs liked to say, Murdoch didn’t raise children; he raised future media moguls. It had made for fraught family dynamics, with competing ambitions and ever-shifting alliances. Murdoch was largely responsible for this state of affairs: He had long avoided naming one of his children as his successor, deferring an announcement that might create still more friction within his family, not to mention bringing into focus his own mortality. Instead, Murdoch tried to manage the tensions, arranging for group therapy with his children and their spouses with a counselor in London who specialized in working with dynastic families. There was even a therapeutic retreat to the Murdoch ranch in Australia. But these sessions provided just another forum for power games and manipulation. [Read 6 takeaways from this story.] Over the years, Lachlan and James had traded roles, more than once, as heir apparent and jilted son. It was no secret to those close to the family that Murdoch had always favored Lachlan. (“But I love all of my children,” Murdoch would say when people close to him pointed out his clear preference for Lachlan.) But it was James who spent the first decades of the 21st century helping reposition the company for the digital future — exploiting new markets around the world, expanding online offerings, embracing broadband and streaming technology — while his older brother was mostly off running his own businesses in Australia after a bitter split from their father. When Lachlan finally agreed to return to the United States in 2015, Murdoch gave him and James dueling senior titles: All the company’s divisions would report jointly to them. It was an awkward arrangement, not only because they were both putatively in charge of a single empire. James and Lachlan were very different people, with very different politics, and they were pushing the company toward very different futures: James toward a globalized, multiplatform news-and-entertainment brand that would seem sensible to any attendee of Davos or reader of The Economist; Lachlan toward something that was at once out of the past and increasingly of the moment — an unabashedly nationalist, far-right and hugely profitable political propaganda machine. Only one of Murdoch’s adult children would win the ultimate prize of running the world’s most powerful media empire, but all four of them would ultimately have an equal say in the direction of its future: Murdoch had structured both of his companies, 21st Century Fox and News Corp, so that the Murdoch Family Trust held a controlling interest in them. He held four of the trust’s eight votes, while each of his adult children had only one. He could never be outvoted. But he had also stipulated that once he was gone, his votes would disappear and all the decision-making power would revert to the children. This meant that his death could set off a power struggle that would dwarf anything the family had seen while he was alive and very possibly reorder the political landscape across the English-speaking world. As the children hurried to their father’s bedside in Los Angeles, it seemed as if that moment had finally arrived. Media power has historically accrued slowly, over the course of generations, which is one reason it tends to be concentrated in dynastic families. The Graham family owned The Washington Post for 80 years before selling it to Amazon’s founder, Jeff Bezos. William R. Hearst III still presides over the Hearst Corporation, whose roots can be traced to his great-grandfather, the mining-baron-turned-United-States-senator George Hearst. The New York Times has been controlled by the Ochs-Sulzberger family for more than a century. The Murdoch empire is a relatively young one by comparison, but it would be hard to argue that there is a more powerful media family on earth. The right-wing populist wave that looked like a fleeting cultural phenomenon a few years ago has turned into the defining political movement of the times, disrupting the world order of the last half-century. The Murdoch empire did not cause this wave. But more than any single media company, it enabled it, promoted it and profited from it. Across the English-speaking world, the family’s outlets have helped elevate marginal demagogues, mainstream ethnonationalism and politicize the very notion of truth. The results have been striking. It may not have been the family’s mission to destabilize democracies around the world, but that has been its most consequential legacy. Over the last six months, we have spoken to more than 150 people across three continents about the Murdochs and their empire — some who know the family intimately, some who have helped them achieve their aims, some who have fought against them with varying degrees of success. (Most of these people insisted on anonymity to share intimate details about the family and its business so as not to risk retribution.) The media tend to pay a lot of attention to the media: Fox News is covered almost as closely as the White House and often in the same story. The Murdochs themselves are an enduring object of cultural fascination: “Ink,” a play about Rupert’s rise, is opening soon on Broadway. The second season of HBO’s “Succession,” whose fictional media family, the Roys, bears a striking resemblance to the Murdochs, airs this summer. But what we as reporters had not fully appreciated until now is the extent to which these two stories — one of an illiberal, right-wing reaction sweeping the globe, the other of a dynastic media family — are really one. To see Fox News as an arm of the Trump White House risks missing the larger picture. It may be more accurate to say that the White House — just like the prime ministers’ offices in Britain and Australia — is just one tool among many that this family uses to exert influence over world events. What do the Murdochs want? Family dynamics are complex, too, and media dynasties are animated by different factors — workaday business imperatives, the desire to pass on wealth, an old-fashioned sense of civic duty. But the Murdochs’ global operations suggest a different dynastic orientation, one centered on empire building in the original sense of the term: territorial conquest. Murdoch began with a small regional paper in Australia, inherited from his father. He quickly expanded the business into a national and then an international force, in part by ruthlessly using his platform to help elect his preferred candidates and then ruthlessly using those candidates to help extend his reach. Murdoch’s news empire is a monument to decades’ worth of transactional relationships with elected officials. Murdoch has said that he “never asked a prime minister for anything.” But press barons don’t have to ask when their media outlets can broadcast their desires. Politicians know what Murdoch wants, and they know what he can deliver: the base, their voters — power. The Murdoch approach to empire building has reached its apotheosis in the Trump era. Murdoch had long dreamed of having a close relationship with an American president. On the surface, he and Trump have very little in common: One is a global citizen with homes around the world, a voracious reader with at least some sense of self-awareness. (Murdoch was photographed last year on the beach reading “Utopia for Realists,” by Rutger Bregman, the Dutch historian who later told Tucker Carlson in an interview that Carlson was a “millionaire funded by billionaires.”) The other is a proudly crass American who vacations at his own country clubs, dines on fast food and watches a lot of TV. But they are each a son of an aspiring empire builder, and their respective dynasties shared the same core value — growth through territorial conquest — and employed the same methods to achieve it, leveraging political relationships to gain power and influence. In Trump’s case, these relationships helped him secure zoning exemptions, tax abatements and global licensing deals; in Murdoch’s case, they allowed him to influence and evade antimonopoly and foreign-ownership rules. Murdoch has carefully built an image during his six decades in media as a pragmatist who will support liberal governments when it suits him. Yet his various news outlets have inexorably pushed the flow of history to the right across the Anglosphere, whether they were advocating for the United States and its allies to go to war in Iraq in 2003, undermining global efforts to combat climate change or vilifying people of color at home or from abroad as dangerous threats to a white majority. Even as his empire grew — traversing oceans, countries and media — Murdoch saw to it that it would always remain a family business. Underpinning it was a worldview that the government was the enemy of an independent media and a business model that depended nonetheless on government intervention to advance his interests and undermine those of his competitors. The Murdoch dynasty draws no lines among politics, money and power; they all work together seamlessly in service of the overarching goal of imperial expansion. It would be impossible for an empire as sprawling as Murdoch’s to be completely culturally and ideologically consistent. He is a businessman who wants to satisfy his customers. His assets also include entertainment companies, sports networks and moderate broadsheets. Murdoch embodies these same contradictions. He’s an immigrant stoking nationalism, a billionaire championing populism and a father who never saw any reason to keep his family separate from his business, and in fact had deliberately merged the two. Most dynasties break apart eventually, as decision-making power is dispersed across individuals and generations with different attitudes about their family business and the world in general. No one knows this better than Murdoch, who in 2007 took over Dow Jones, publisher of The Wall Street Journal, by exploiting divisions within the Bancroft family, which had run the paper for more than a century. Murdoch thought he had protected himself from a similar fate by keeping a controlling interest in his empire; no one could take it away from him. The challenge would be holding it together. To understand how the Murdoch empire works, it is essential to return to its origins. On the day in 1931 that Rupert Murdoch was born, his father, Keith Murdoch, was in the midst of his first campaign to elect a prime minister from his newsroom in Australia. As a young newspaperman, Keith gained fame by evading military censors to report on the slaughter of his countrymen during the British-led Gallipoli campaign of World War I. He leveraged that fame to become a powerful executive at the Melbourne Herald and Weekly Times news company, a position that he in turn leveraged to punish his enemies and reward his allies: The candidate he was supporting for prime minister, Joseph Lyons, earlier helped Keith overcome regulatory restrictions to start a radio station for his company in Adelaide, according to the historian Tom Roberts’s 2015 biography of Murdoch’s father, “Before Rupert.” Lyons won, and as Keith saw it, Australia’s new leader served at his pleasure: “I put him there,” he reportedly said when the two later squabbled. “And I’ll put him out.” As Keith was creating one of the country’s first national news chains, a regional Australian newspaper editorialized about the danger of his ambitions, warning, Roberts wrote, that he was creating “a press dictatorship for all Australia with Murdoch-inspired leaders and Murdoch-trained reporters.” Bound up with Keith’s business interests were ideological inclinations not just about how power should work but also about who should be allowed to exercise it: He was a member of the Eugenics Society of Victoria and in an editorial once wrote that the great question facing Britain was “will she, if needs be, fight — for a White Australia?” Keith never built a true media empire. He did own two regional newspapers, one of which had to be sold to pay off his death duties when he died suddenly in 1952. That left only the 75,000-circulation News of Adelaide for his 21-year-old son, who was finishing his degree at Oxford. But Rupert Murdoch had already received something much more valuable from his father: an extended tutorial in how to use media holdings to extract favors from politicians. His first order of business was to establish a proper Murdoch-owned empire in Australia. After buying a couple of additional local papers, he founded the country’s first national general-interest newspaper, The Australian, which gave him a powerful platform to help elect governments that eased national regulations designed to limit the size of media companies. He would eventually take control of nearly two-thirds of the national newspaper market. With the construction of his Australian media empire underway, Murdoch moved on to Britain and Fleet Street, using his newest acquisitions, The News of the World and The Sun, to successfully promote Margaret Thatcher’s candidacy for prime minister. Once elected, her government declined to refer his acquisition of The Times of London to antimonopoly regulators, giving him the country’s leading establishment broadsheet to go with his mass-circulation tabloids. Television was next. After Murdoch lost the bidding for the British government’s sole satellite broadcasting license, Thatcher again came to his rescue, looking the other way when he started a rival service, Sky Television, which beamed programming into Britain from Luxembourg. The bigger Murdoch’s empire became, the more power he had to clear away obstacles to further its expansion. His influence became an uncomfortable fact of British political life, and Murdoch seemed to revel in it. “It’s The Sun Wot Won It,” The Sun declared on its front page in 1992, after helping send the Tory leader John Major to 10 Downing Street by relentlessly smearing the character of his opponent, Neil Kinnock. (“Nightmare on Kinnock Street,” The Sun headlined a savage nine-page package that included a satirical endorsement from the ghost of Joseph Stalin.) Murdoch could switch parties when it suited his purposes and ably supported Britain’s “New Labor” movement in the 1990s: Conservatives at the time had proposed regulations that would have forced him to scale back his newspaper operations in order to expand further into TV. Murdoch used the same playbook in the United States. In 1980, he met Roy Cohn — the former adviser to Senator Joseph McCarthy and a Trump mentor — who introduced him to Gov. Ronald Reagan’s inner circle. It was a group that included Roger Stone Jr., another Trump confidant and the head of Reagan’s New York operations, who said in a later interview that he helped Murdoch weaponize his latest tabloid purchase, The New York Post, on Reagan’s behalf in the 1980 election. Reagan’s team credited Murdoch with delivering him the state that year — Murdoch gave Stone an Election Day printing plate from The Post over a celebratory meal at the 21 Club — and his administration subsequently facilitated Murdoch’s entry into the American television market, quickly approving his application for American citizenship so he could buy TV stations too. The Reagan administration later waived a prohibition against owning a television station and a newspaper in the same market, allowing Murdoch to hold onto his big metro dailies, The New York Post and The Boston Herald, even as he moved into TV in both cities. The administration of George H.W. Bush suspended rules that forbade broadcast networks to own prime-time shows or to profit from them. That move allowed Murdoch to build the nation’s fourth broadcast network by rapidly filling out his schedule with shows from his newly acquired 20th Century Fox studio — “The Simpsons,” “21 Jump Street” — while also earning substantial profits from the production unit’s syndicated rerun hits like “M*A*S*H” and “L.A. Law.” Maybe more than any media mogul of his generation, Murdoch exploited the seismic changes transforming the industry during the waning years of the 20th century (another lesson from Keith, an early adopter of radio and newsreels). These changes were driven by technology: It was now possible to transmit endless amounts of content all over the world in an instant. But they were also driven by regulatory changes, in particular the liberation of TV and radio operators from the government guidelines that ruled the public airwaves. The Reagan administration’s elimination of the Fairness Doctrine, which had for decades required broadcasters to present both sides of any major public-policy debate, spawned a new generation of right-wing radio personalities who were free to provide a different sort of opinion programming to a large, latent conservative audience that was mistrustful of the media in general. It was only a matter of time until similar programming started migrating to the burgeoning medium of 24-hour-a-day cable television. And it was of course Murdoch who imported it. Murdoch had watched enviously as his younger rival, Ted Turner, built his own cable news network, CNN. In 1996, he and Roger Ailes, a former media adviser for Nixon and George H.W. Bush, started their conservative competitor, Fox News, which catered to those Americans whose political preferences had gone unaddressed on television news. Another political favor was crucial. When Time Warner, which owned CNN, refused to carry the new network on its cable system in New York, the city’s Republican mayor, Rudolph W. Giuliani — another future Trump adviser and a lion in the pages of The Post — publicly pressured the cable company as the two sides moved toward an eventual deal. A round-the-clock network with a virtual monopoly on conservative TV news, Fox conferred on Murdoch a whole new sort of influence that was enhanced by politically polarizing events like the Monica Lewinsky scandal and the post-Sept. 11 war in Iraq that marked its early years. If Murdoch’s papers were a blunt instrument, Fox’s influence was in some ways more subtle, but also far more profound: Hour after hour, day after day, it was shaping the realities of the millions of Americans who treated it as their primary news source. A 2007 study found that the introduction of the network on a particular cable system pushed local voters to the right: the Fox News Effect, as it became known. In a 2014 Pew Research poll, a majority of self-described conservatives said it was the only news network they trusted. Murdoch’s office above the Fox newsroom in Midtown Manhattan became a requisite stop on any serious Republican presidential candidate’s schedule. Fifty years and an untold number of deals after taking possession of The News of Adelaide, Murdoch had arrived at the pinnacle of global influence. “Republicans originally thought that Fox worked for us,” David Frum, a former speechwriter for George W. Bush, said in an interview with “Nightline.” “And now we’re discovering we work for Fox.” Murdoch’s success in building his empire inevitably raised the question of who would rule it after he was gone. As he grew older, he would often say privately that he didn’t want to become another Sumner Redstone, the aging media mogul who had refused to cede control of CBS and Viacom, even as he was losing the ability to speak or eat unassisted. But as he turned 75, and then 80, Murdoch, too, had declined to lay out a plan for the future of his empire. Initially he favored Lachlan, installing him as the general manager of one of his Australian newspaper chains at age 22 and overseeing his rise to the post of deputy chief operating officer of News Corp by age 33. But Lachlan’s rise was cut short after he clashed repeatedly with seasoned executives who viewed him as an entitled princeling. Furious at his father for siding against him in these disputes, Lachlan left the company — and the United States — in 2005, returning to the Murdochs’ ancestral homeland with a $100 million payout from the family trust. James, then the chief executive of British Sky Broadcasting — formerly Sky Television, later shortened to Sky — took over the mantle of heir apparent. But by the summer of 2015, Murdoch, now 84, had changed his mind: James was out, and Lachlan was once again next in line. The news was delivered to James not by his father but by Lachlan and the company’s president, Chase Carey, over lunch in Manhattan: Lachlan was moving back to the United States to take over the business. James would report to him. James was livid. The two brothers and their father had explicitly discussed succession not even two years earlier. James was supposed to take over, and Lachlan would never assume more than a symbolic role. As James saw it, he had not only been promised the job; he had earned it. He had devoted years of his life to trying to build the company — moving his family to Hong Kong and London, making monthly trips to Mumbai to push the family’s satellite-TV businesses into emerging technology and new markets — while his brother was off in Australia spearfishing and making dubious investments. Angry and appalled, James threatened to quit, heading straight from lunch to the airport for a flight to Indonesia. With a clipped, near-British accent and a penchant for wearing bluejeans and espadrilles, James reads as an archetype of today’s global power elite. Years ago, he was the family rebel, piercing his ears, dyeing his hair and having a light bulb tattooed on his right arm. As an undergraduate at Harvard, James flirted with becoming a medieval historian and joined the staff of The Harvard Lampoon before dropping out in 1995 to follow the Grateful Dead and start an independent hip-hop label, Rawkus Records, whose artists included Talib Kweli and Mos Def. A year later, his father bought Rawkus and brought James into News Corp, ending his short-lived foray outside the family business. In 2000, James married Kathryn Hufschmid, a fashion-marketing executive and part-time model from Oregon, whom he met on a mutual friend’s yacht bound for Fiji and whose more liberal politics made her an outlier in the Murdoch family. She argued frequently with her father-in-law over Fox’s politics. The constant sparring grew tiresome for Murdoch, who worried that Kathryn had too much influence over his younger son. He would often suggest to James that the two of them just go out to dinner alone when they needed to discuss something, according to a person close to Murdoch. Even inside his father’s empire, James continued to view himself in idealistic terms, as the one best suited to drag the sprawling, often backward-thinking company into the future, whether that meant making all of its offices carbon-neutral, leading investments in digitally oriented businesses like Hulu or moderating the wilder impulses of Fox News. A self-described political centrist, James saw the network as one of the biggest obstacles to his efforts to diversify and expand the company. In a meeting of senior executives, one attendee recalled, he said he wanted to change the image of the Murdoch empire so that it was no longer viewed as a company “defined by a single product with a charismatic founder.” Lachlan identified closely with that charismatic founder. His trajectory was very different from James’s. He shared his father’s attachment to Australia, both to his family’s long history inside the country and to its hypermasculine, rough-hewed culture. When he was younger, he worked as a jackeroo, herding and vaccinating sheep and lambs in rural Australia, and culled kangaroos from the family’s ranch in Cavan with a shotgun. (His father stuck to clay pigeons.) After graduating from Princeton, Lachlan returned to Australia to work in the family business, becoming an instant celebrity, known for wearing outback boots with his suits, riding a Kawasaki motorcycle to work, showing off his armband tattoo while rock climbing and courting the Australian model Sarah O’Hare, whom he married in 1999. Lachlan doesn’t speak publicly about his politics, but his employees in Australia found that he took a hard line on many issues. Chris Mitchell, the longtime editor of The Australian, recalled in his 2016 memoir, “Making Headlines,” that “Lachlan’s conservatism is more vigorous than that of any Australian politician” and that his views were usually to the right of his father’s. Lachlan once presented himself at one of the family’s papers to express displeasure with its decision to run an editorial in support of same-sex marriage, according to three people who knew about the interaction at the time. (Lachlan said through a representative that he had no recollection of the incident and that he supports same-sex marriage.) According to people close to him, Lachlan questions what he sees as the exorbitant cost of addressing climate change and believes that the debate over global warming is getting too much attention. Lachlan viewed his brother as a good executive, but he felt that he was the one who had taken risks and proved himself in Australia. It was true that some of his investments had failed — he’d bought a TV network, Ten, that went into receivership after losing $232 million in six months — but others, including a group of Top-100 and easy-listening radio stations, were earning tens of millions of dollars a year. Murdoch had been trying for years to coax Lachlan back from Australia. Murdoch’s 2013 divorce from his third wife, Wendi Murdoch, helped change Lachlan’s mind. He and James had tried to talk their father out of marrying Wendi over a 1999 dinner at the Manhattan restaurant Babbo — she was the rare subject on which the two sons agreed — and both of them had grown even less fond of her in the years that followed. James and at least one other company executive had heard from senior foreign officials that they believed she was a Chinese intelligence asset. And family members felt that she treated their father terribly, calling him “old” and “stupid.” (A spokesman for Wendi Murdoch denied these claims.) Apart from Wendi, the sons were at odds about almost everything. They were not only fighting over control of their father’s empire; they were fighting over one of his homes, a 8,651-square-foot Spanish-style mansion in Beverly Hills. Murdoch bought the house furnished in the 1980s from the music mogul Jules Stein, and his sons had a sentimental attachment to it, having spent a lot of time there as children. According to six people close to the family, James and Lachlan were upset to learn that their father had put the house on the market and had a $35 million offer on it from Leonardo DiCaprio. The brothers briefly discussed buying the house together; whoever happened to be in L.A. at any given moment could use it. James finally agreed to buy the house himself at a discounted price of $30 million, though after he and Kathryn did so, they learned that it needed four new retaining walls, costing them millions of dollars more. Lachlan was upset that his brother had gotten the house. As a gift, Murdoch gave him some of the antique furniture inside, even though James and Kathryn thought they had bought it furnished. While James was overseas, ready to quit, his father and brother came up with a compromise: All of 21st Century Fox’s divisions would report to both of them. James would be chief executive, while Lachlan would share the more exalted title of co-chairman with his father. The announcement would be carefully worded to suggest that they were coequals, to protect James from the public humiliation, even though Lachlan was technically the senior executive. Their salaries were identical, roughly $20 million a year to start. Each would have access to corporate planes for professional and personal use. James would be based in the company’s corporate offices in Midtown Manhattan, Lachlan on the other side of the country, in the vast chairman’s office formerly occupied by his father in Building 88 on the 21st Century Fox lot, which he decorated with a picture of the Cavan ranch and a 1979 black-and-white photograph of Murdoch standing in front of a New York Post printing press. James warily agreed to the terms, but the question of succession was not fully resolved. The news coverage of their promotions made no distinction between the seniority of their respective positions: Publicly at least, James was still seen as the heir apparent. When the dust finally settled, the two sons sat down for an interview with The Hollywood Reporter headlined, “The New Age of Murdochs.” Lachlan described the transition as “seamless.” In early 2015, Murdoch got a call from Ivanka Trump, proposing lunch with her and her father. They met soon after in the corporate dining room of the Fox News building in Midtown Manhattan. Ivanka’s husband, Jared Kushner, came, too. Just as the first course was being served, Trump told Murdoch that he was going to run for president. Murdoch didn’t even look up from his soup, according to three people who independently shared the story. “You have to be prepared to be rapped up badly,” Murdoch replied, using an expression for taking some knocks. Murdoch was deeply entwined with the Trump family. Trump had aggressively cultivated The Post during his rise to celebrity in New York in the late ’70s and ’80s. Kushner became close to Murdoch after he purchased The New York Observer in 2006. An improbable friendship blossomed between the octogenarian mogul and the 30-something publishing parvenu, with Murdoch and Wendi even taking Kushner and Ivanka on vacation in the Caribbean on Murdoch’s yacht. After Murdoch’s divorce in 2013, Kushner, who was also in the real estate business, helped him find a decorator for his new bachelor apartment. Ivanka was one of five individuals designated to oversee the trust for Murdoch and Wendi’s two daughters, which held $300 million in stock in News Corp and 21st Century Fox. (She relinquished her role as a trustee in 2016.) Murdoch recognized Trump’s appeal as a tabloid character and ratings driver, but he did not see him as a serious person, let alone a credible candidate for president. “He’s a [expletive] idiot,” Murdoch would say when asked about Trump, three people close to him told us (Through a spokeswoman, Murdoch denied that he ever used this phrase to describe Trump.). Roger Ailes, the longtime head of Fox News, was no more generous, at least when Trump was out of earshot. Ailes was close to Trump, too: Their alliance dated back to Rudolph Giuliani’s 1989 New York mayoral campaign, for which Ailes worked as a media adviser and Trump as a fund-raising figurehead. It was Ailes who, in 2011, gave Trump his regular Monday-morning slot on “Fox & Friends,” which Trump used to advance his “birther” campaign. Still, Ailes ranted indignantly about the notion of a Trump presidency, saying that he wasn’t remotely worthy of the Oval Office, a person close to him at the time told us. Fox News’s initial resistance to promoting his candidacy came as an unpleasant surprise to Trump, who had assumed that his relationships with Murdoch and Ailes would ensure positive coverage. Ailes had even written Trump an email asking what he could do to help him. (After scrawling an enthusiastic note on top, Trump sent a printout of that email to his campaign manager, Corey Lewandowski.) During the campaign’s early months, it fell mostly to Ailes to manage the network’s tumultuous relationship with Trump, who complained constantly that Fox favored Ted Cruz and Marco Rubio. Trump was driven into a near-weekly rage by the Fox News host Bret Baier’s Friday-night segment, “Candidate Casino.” Opening with a graphic of a spinning roulette wheel and Vegas-style lights, Baier and his round table of political analysts would place bets on the probable party nominees. Even though Trump was winning in most of the polls, Baier’s parlor of experts regularly placed him toward the bottom of the pack. It was especially galling to Trump because he and Baier had golfed together, and Baier had briefly been a member at the Trump International Golf Club in West Palm Beach. (Baier dropped his membership when it became clear that Trump was likely to run for the presidency.) After the Fox contributor and Weekly Standard editor Stephen F. Hayes called Trump “a clown,” Trump faxed Baier a copy of his résumé, with a note scrawled across it in black marker: “Tell Hayes no clown could have done all this!” Trump even complained about Fox while appearing on Fox, ticking off, during a live interview with Sean Hannity, the contributors who should be fired because they were “biased” against him. Trump wasn’t without leverage in his relationship with Fox. The Murdoch formula was to deliver the enthusiasm of reactionary readers and viewers to chosen candidates, but Trump was already generating plenty of enthusiasm on his own. His hard-core supporters made up Fox’s core audience, and his social media accounts gave him a direct connection to them. If these supporters had to choose between Trump and Fox, Ailes might not like the results. At the same time, a new crop of right-wing outlets — Breitbart, Gateway Pundit, One America News, Sinclair — were embracing his candidacy, and mainstream broadcasters were no less aware of what he could do for their ratings. “I can go on the ‘Today’ show in my pajamas, and five million people will watch,” he warned Ailes, a former Trump campaign official recalled. After the Fox News anchor Megyn Kelly asked Trump, during the first Republican primary debate in the summer of 2015, to defend his comments about women — “You’ve called women you don’t like fat pigs, dogs, slobs and disgusting animals” — Trump demanded that Ailes force her to publicly apologize, according to the former Trump campaign official. (She didn’t.) Six months later, on the eve of another Republican debate in Des Moines, which Trump was boycotting because Kelly was once again moderating, Ailes tried desperately to persuade Trump to change his mind. His hopes were dashed when Trump called him from the tarmac in Iowa to refuse, having just watched the Fox News contributor Charles Krauthammer mock him on the network. Without Trump, the event drew just half the viewership of Fox’s first debate. Kushner was privately lobbying Murdoch to reconsider his attitude toward his father-in-law, showing him videos of the candidate’s overflowing campaign rallies on his iPhone. Even as Trump gained momentum, Murdoch continued to look for alternatives. Over the summer of 2015, he wrote a personal check for $200,000 to the super PAC of Gov. John Kasich, the relatively moderate Republican from Ohio, according to Federal Election Commission filings. Aware of her father-in-law’s dim view of Trump, James’s wife, Kathryn, tried to broker a meeting between Murdoch and Hillary Clinton. Having worked for the Clinton Climate Initiative, she knew both the Clintons and their inner circle of advisers and hoped Murdoch might consider an endorsement, or at least commit to staying neutral. The idea was not so far-fetched. Murdoch had, after all, backed Tony Blair, a Clinton-style Labor Party centrist, and had once even hosted a Senate fund-raiser for Hillary. Murdoch felt he didn’t need his daughter-in-law’s help. In fact, he called Clinton personally, leaving a message at her campaign headquarters. Clinton called back almost immediately but declined his invitation to meet with him. (A spokesman for Clinton did not respond to a request for comment.) During the primaries, Trump honed his political identity, railing against military intervention, free trade and immigration. They were all positions that directly contradicted Murdoch’s own, more neoconservative views. Murdoch had enthusiastically supported the Iraq War, evangelized for open immigration policies — even urging Australia to avoid the “self defeating” anti-immigration debate in the United States — and endorsed international trade agreements like the Trans-Pacific Partnership. His attitude toward Trump’s emergent ideology was often captured on the unremittingly anti-Trump editorial page of The Wall Street Journal. The page’s editor, Paul Gigot, was in frequent contact with his paper’s owner, according to sources familiar with the conversations. And yet Murdoch was in a sense responsible for unleashing the forces that were now propelling Trump’s rise. During the Obama years, Fox News had found ratings and profits with its wall-to-wall coverage of raucous Tea Party rallies and the opinion shows that advanced the campaign to delegitimize the country’s first African-American president. As the Republican nominating process progressed, this populist, anti-establishment energy was unmistakably coalescing around Trump. By March 2016, Donald Trump, the man Murdoch had so quickly dismissed a year earlier, was now the clear front-runner, and Murdoch was taking his first tentative steps toward embracing him. “If he becomes inevitable, party would be mad not to unify,” he tweeted. Across the Atlantic, a similar right-wing wave was threatening to drive Britain out of the European Union. Murdoch had a hand in that as well. His most influential tabloid, The Sun, had long been advocating for an exit from the E.U., and so had Murdoch himself, distilling his opposition to the E.U. into a single quote to Anthony Hilton, a columnist at The Evening Standard: “When I go into Downing Street, they do what I say; when I go to Brussels, they take no notice.” (Murdoch subsequently denied saying this; Hilton stood by the quote.) Prime Minister John Major told a judicial inquiry that in 1997 Murdoch said that he could not support him if he didn’t change his stance toward Europe, which the prime minister took as a demand for an E.U. referendum. (Murdoch denied this, too.) As the summer of 2016 approached, that referendum was finally coming. The idea of Britain’s splitting from the E.U. had always seemed more like a nativist fever dream than a realistic political goal. But in 2016, Brexit proponents could scan the globe and see cause for optimism. Not only was Trump’s campaign surging in the United States, but reactionary nationalism was also gaining supporters worldwide: In Austria’s presidential elections, the candidate of the Freedom Party, founded by former Nazi officers, narrowly lost in a runoff. The Philippines had just elected as president Rodrigo Duterte, following a campaign during which he inveighed against the country’s business and political elites and promised to kill so many criminals that the fish in Manila Bay would “grow fat” from feeding on their dead bodies. Hungary’s prime minister, Viktor Orban, had already built his own version of a border wall, miles of barbed wire aimed at turning back what he later called “Muslim invaders.” In the weeks leading up to the vote, The Sun led the London tabloids in hammering the case for leaving the European Union. It cast Brexit as a choice between the “arrogant europhiles” and the country’s working class, while railing against “mass immigration which keeps wages low and puts catastrophic pressure on our schools, hospitals, roads and housing stock.” It still looked like a long shot, and Murdoch’s other British newspaper, the more sober Times, had encouraged its wealthier and more politically moderate readers to vote in favor of remaining in the European Union. But The Sun was where Murdoch’s heart — and influence — lay. How much influence he still wielded in British politics was an open question. Murdoch had effectively been chased out of London five years earlier in the wake of the biggest crisis of his career: the revelations that his News of the World tabloid had, in search of dirt, been systematically hacking into the phones of politicians, celebrities, royals and even a 13-year-old schoolgirl. The scandal that followed, itself fit for tabloid headlines, would permanently alter the course of both the family and its empire. One of Murdoch’s executives, Rebekah Brooks, a virtual seventh child to Murdoch, was arrested, tried and acquitted. Andy Coulson, a former Murdoch editor who had gone to work for Prime Minister David Cameron, was sent to prison for encouraging his reporters to engage in illegal practices. In a futile effort at damage control, the company spent millions of dollars settling claims from hacking victims. Murdoch and James, who was running the company’s European and Asian operations from London at the time, were grilled in a public hearing before Parliament. James denied knowing that the phone-hacking was widespread but was publicly confronted with an email he was sent in 2008 alerting him to the potential severity of the problem. (He said that he had not reviewed “the full email chain.”) It was a corporate scandal, but because of the nature of this corporation, it was also a family matter. James blamed his father for having allowed the freebooting, anything-goes culture to take root at the paper and for forcing him to absorb so much of the blame for the scandal, when the hacking itself took place before he took charge. As James saw it, his father was angry that he wouldn’t conduct a cover-up; James went so far as to tell some members of the board that he was concerned about Murdoch’s mental health. For his part, Murdoch blamed James for surrounding himself with feckless, sycophantic advisers who failed to neutralize the crisis when it still could have been contained. Elisabeth, having long been out of the succession mix, reinserted herself, urging her father to fire James and replace him with her, four people familiar with the conversations told us. (Through a spokesperson, Elisabeth denied that she encouraged her brother’s firing or asked for his job.) Murdoch agreed to fire James but reversed his decision before it became public. Lachlan used the opportunity to play the family savior in a time of crisis, calling his father from Bangkok — en route to Britain from Australia — to urge him not to do anything rash. He swept into the company’s London offices looking tan, fit and rested, despite the daylong flight from Australia. His presence appeared to be an instant comfort to his father. The public shaming did not end with the scandal — a worldwide news event for months — or the interrogation by Parliament. A judicial inquiry investigated the practices of the British press, with Murdoch’s papers front and center. The resulting document, the Leveson Report, depicted a country in which a single family had amassed so much power that it had come to feel that the rules did not apply to them. “Sometimes the very greatest power is exercised without having to ask,” the report said. In their discussions with Murdoch, “politicians knew that the prize was personal and political support in his mass-circulation newspapers.” By the time the Leveson Report was released in 2012, Murdoch had shut down The News of the World and was keeping a low profile in Britain. Several factors accounted for his return in 2016, including his recent marriage to his fourth wife, Jerry Hall. They met in Australia, where Hall was playing Mrs. Robinson in a stage adaptation of “The Graduate.” Hall had a teenage son in London, and she and Murdoch were spending a lot of time in the 26-room house that she owned with her former partner, Mick Jagger. Now back in the city where he once wooed Margaret Thatcher, Murdoch used Britain’s largest tabloid to rally readers to vote to leave the European Union. The Sun’s cover on the day of the Brexit referendum was a picture of corporate synergy: “Independence Day: Britain’s Resurgence,” it read, over a mock version of the poster for the 21st Century Fox movie “Independence Day: Resurgence,” which opened in Britain that day. Murdoch flew in to London from Cannes for the vote and soon visited the newsroom of the anti-Brexit Times to gloat, joking to his reporters about their glum faces. Later, he likened the country’s decision to leave the European Union to “a prison break” and celebrated the vote with Nigel Farage, a leading architect of Brexit (and a future Fox News contributor), at a garden party at the London mansion of the Russian oligarch Evgeny Lebedev. The referendum represented the realization of a long-deferred dream for Murdoch. But it also returned him to a position of influence in British politics that seemed inconceivable just a few years earlier. Not only had The Sun played a critical role in delivering the Brexit vote, but in the ensuing political upheaval, it had swung behind Theresa May, helping ensure her election as prime minister. Once in office, she found time for a private meeting with Murdoch on one of her first foreign trips: a less-than-36-hour visit to New York to address the United Nations. Days after the vote, Trump, who had seemed to be struggling with the basic principles of Brexit in an interview with The Sun a few weeks earlier, visited Scotland for a victory lap of his own: “I said this was going to happen, and I think that it’s a great thing.” He, too, found time for Murdoch, inviting him and Jerry Hall to dinner with Kushner and Ivanka at his golf course in Aberdeen. Photographers captured them riding off in a golf cart, with Trump at the wheel and Murdoch lounging in the back. The summer of 2016 was a good time to be a network with a dedicated audience of right-wing viewers. And yet the future of Fox News had never seemed more uncertain: Murdoch’s flagship network was now backing a Republican presidential nominee who not only represented a radical departure from the party’s traditional platform but who also seemed destined to lose in a few months. What’s more, that network’s lodestar, Roger Ailes, had just been forced out following multiple claims of sexual harassment. It was James and Lachlan who teamed up to push Ailes out, over the initial objections of their father. Ailes was another rare subject on which the two sons agreed, though they disliked him for different reasons. Lachlan had clashed repeatedly with Ailes early in his career in New York. He told friends that he reached his breaking point with his father in 2005 when he learned that Murdoch had said to Ailes, “Don’t worry about the boy.” For his part, James saw Ailes as a boorish showman who embodied many of the most retrograde impulses of the network’s opinion programming: its nativism; its paranoiac attitude toward Muslims and undocumented immigrants; its embrace of conspiracy; and, maybe most of all, its climate-change denialism. James saw in Ailes’s exit an opportunity to push the network in a new direction. He wanted to bring in an experienced news executive who would reposition it as a more responsible, if still conservative, outlet — one whose hosts would no longer be free to vent without adhering to basic standards of accuracy, fairness and, as he saw it, decency. One candidate he had in mind was David Rhodes. Then the president of CBS News, Rhodes was a former Fox News executive, as well as the brother of Ben Rhodes, a foreign-policy adviser for Obama. Both Murdoch and Lachlan dismissed the idea. They wanted continuity, not change. Like his father, Lachlan considered the idea of meddling with such an important profit driver a form of madness. Rather than replace Ailes with a new executive, Murdoch moved into his office and took over the job himself, a short-term solution intended to reassure both shareholders and talent. He was soon back in the newsroom, attending meetings and visiting sets — “my retirement job,” he called it — and was having more fun than he’d had in years. Having once dismissed Trump’s candidacy, Murdoch now threw himself wholly behind it. During the final stretch of the campaign, Fox cut back appearances by anti-Trump analysts and contributors and added pro-Trump ones, while also ramping up its attacks on Hillary Clinton. Sean Hannity built shows around the same sorts of false claims that were circulating on far-right internet sites and suspected Russian social media accounts, suggesting that Clinton was suffering from a possibly life-threatening illness and that one of her Secret Service agents was carrying a diazepam pen, which is commonly used to treat seizures. (It was actually a flashlight.) One anti-Clinton segment was built around an appearance by Jeff Rovin, who had for years been the editor in chief of The Weekly World News, the supermarket tabloid best known for claiming that Hillary Clinton was possessed by Satan and had carried on an affair with a space alien named P’Lod. Other Murdoch outlets were swinging behind Trump, too: At The Wall Street Journal’s editorial page, Trump critics felt increasing pressure to moderate their positions. (The Journal’s news side, by contrast, broke the first story about The National Enquirer’s role in Trump’s efforts to buy the silence of women claiming affairs with him.) With Clinton taking on an air of inevitability, James and Kathryn invited Kushner and Ivanka to a small dinner salon they were hosting at their Upper East Side townhouse with a guest speaker: Adm. James Stavridis, a Democrat who had been talked about as a possible vice-presidential pick for Clinton. James and Kathryn knew Kushner and Ivanka socially and considered the invitation a gesture of empathy, a person who attended the dinner told us. They had endured their own public humiliation during the hacking scandal in London and wanted to show solidarity with the couple, and they also let them know that they would be welcomed back into polite Manhattan society after Trump lost. As the early returns came in on election night, Kathryn received a text message from her father-in-law, who was in the Fox newsroom: “Looks like your girl’s going to win.” Continue reading Part 2, when Trump’s presidency cements Murdoch’s global influence — and the bitter struggle between his sons threatens to tear the company apart. April 3, 2019 April 3, 2019 April 3, 2019 Jonathan Mahler is a staff writer for the magazine who has previously written about the relationship between CNN and Donald Trump. Jim Rutenberg is the Times media columnist and a writer at large for the magazine, writing about media and political organizations. Photo illustrations by Joan Wong Photo illustrations by Joan Wong



      By JONATHAN MAHLER and 
    
JIM RUTENBERG

APRIL 3, 2019
 
Murdoch and his children have toppled governments on two continents and destabilized the most important democracy on Earth. What do they want?
 

          
            Part 1: Imperial Reach
            
        
        Murdoch and his children have toppled governments on two continents and destabilized the most important democracy on Earth. What do they want?
          
       By JONATHAN MAHLER and JIM RUTENBERG APRIL 3, 2019 Rupert Murdoch was lying on the floor of his cabin, unable to move. It was January 2018, and Murdoch and his fourth wife, Jerry Hall, were spending the holidays cruising the Caribbean on his elder son Lachlan’s yacht. Lachlan had personally overseen the design of the 140-foot sloop — named Sarissa after a long and especially dangerous spear used by the armies of ancient Macedonia — ensuring that it would be suitable for family vacations while also remaining competitive in superyacht regattas. The cockpit could be transformed into a swimming pool. The ceiling in the children’s cabin became an illuminated facsimile of the nighttime sky, with separate switches for the Northern and Southern Hemispheres. A detachable board for practicing rock climbing, a passion of Lachlan’s, could be set up on the deck. But it was not the easiest environment for an 86-year-old man to negotiate. Murdoch tripped on his way to the bathroom in the middle of the night. Murdoch had fallen a couple of other times in recent years, once on the stairs while exiting a stage, another time on a carpet in a San Francisco hotel. The family prevented word from getting out on both occasions, but the incidents were concerning. This one seemed far more serious. Murdoch was stretchered off the Sarissa and flown to a hospital in Los Angeles. The doctors quickly spotted broken vertebrae, which required immediate surgery, as well as a spinal hematoma, increasing the risk of paralysis or even death. Hall called his adult children in a panic, urging them to come to California prepared to make peace with their father. Few private citizens have ever been more central to the state of world affairs than the man lying in that hospital bed, awaiting his children’s arrival. As the head of a sprawling global media empire, he commanded multiple television networks, a global news service, a major publishing house and a Hollywood movie studio. His newspapers and television networks had been instrumental in amplifying the nativist revolt that was reshaping governments not just in the United States but also across the planet. His 24-hour news-and-opinion network, the Fox News Channel, had by then fused with President Trump and his base of hard-core supporters, giving Murdoch an unparalleled degree of influence over the world’s most powerful democracy. In Britain, his London-based tabloid, The Sun, had recently led the historic Brexit crusade to drive the country out of the European Union — and, in the chaos that ensued, helped deliver Theresa May to 10 Downing Street. In Australia, where Murdoch’s power is most undiluted, his outlets had led an effort to repeal the country’s carbon tax — a first for any nation — and pushed out a series of prime ministers whose agenda didn’t comport with his own. And he was in the midst of the biggest deal of his life: Only a few weeks before his fall on Lachlan’s yacht, he shook hands on a London rooftop with Robert A. Iger, the chief executive of the Walt Disney Company, consummating a preliminary agreement to sell his TV and film studio, 21st Century Fox, to Disney for $52.4 billion. But control of this sprawling empire was suddenly up in the air. The four grown children had differing claims to the throne. The 61-year-old Prudence, the only child of Murdoch’s first marriage, to the Australian model Patricia Booker (whom he divorced in 1965), lived in Sydney and London and kept some distance from the family business. But the three children from Murdoch’s second marriage, to Anna Mann (whom he divorced in 1999), had spent at least parts of their lives jockeying to succeed their father. Elisabeth (50), Lachlan (47) and James (46) all grew up in the business. As children, they sat around the family’s breakfast table on Fifth Avenue, listening to their father’s tutorials on the morning papers: how the articles were selected and laid out, how many ad pages there were. All of them had imagined that his ever-growing company might one day belong to them. As friends of the Murdochs liked to say, Murdoch didn’t raise children; he raised future media moguls. It had made for fraught family dynamics, with competing ambitions and ever-shifting alliances. Murdoch was largely responsible for this state of affairs: He had long avoided naming one of his children as his successor, deferring an announcement that might create still more friction within his family, not to mention bringing into focus his own mortality. Instead, Murdoch tried to manage the tensions, arranging for group therapy with his children and their spouses with a counselor in London who specialized in working with dynastic families. There was even a therapeutic retreat to the Murdoch ranch in Australia. But these sessions provided just another forum for power games and manipulation. [Read 6 takeaways from this story.] Over the years, Lachlan and James had traded roles, more than once, as heir apparent and jilted son. It was no secret to those close to the family that Murdoch had always favored Lachlan. (“But I love all of my children,” Murdoch would say when people close to him pointed out his clear preference for Lachlan.) But it was James who spent the first decades of the 21st century helping reposition the company for the digital future — exploiting new markets around the world, expanding online offerings, embracing broadband and streaming technology — while his older brother was mostly off running his own businesses in Australia after a bitter split from their father. When Lachlan finally agreed to return to the United States in 2015, Murdoch gave him and James dueling senior titles: All the company’s divisions would report jointly to them. It was an awkward arrangement, not only because they were both putatively in charge of a single empire. James and Lachlan were very different people, with very different politics, and they were pushing the company toward very different futures: James toward a globalized, multiplatform news-and-entertainment brand that would seem sensible to any attendee of Davos or reader of The Economist; Lachlan toward something that was at once out of the past and increasingly of the moment — an unabashedly nationalist, far-right and hugely profitable political propaganda machine. Only one of Murdoch’s adult children would win the ultimate prize of running the world’s most powerful media empire, but all four of them would ultimately have an equal say in the direction of its future: Murdoch had structured both of his companies, 21st Century Fox and News Corp, so that the Murdoch Family Trust held a controlling interest in them. He held four of the trust’s eight votes, while each of his adult children had only one. He could never be outvoted. But he had also stipulated that once he was gone, his votes would disappear and all the decision-making power would revert to the children. This meant that his death could set off a power struggle that would dwarf anything the family had seen while he was alive and very possibly reorder the political landscape across the English-speaking world. As the children hurried to their father’s bedside in Los Angeles, it seemed as if that moment had finally arrived. Media power has historically accrued slowly, over the course of generations, which is one reason it tends to be concentrated in dynastic families. The Graham family owned The Washington Post for 80 years before selling it to Amazon’s founder, Jeff Bezos. William R. Hearst III still presides over the Hearst Corporation, whose roots can be traced to his great-grandfather, the mining-baron-turned-United-States-senator George Hearst. The New York Times has been controlled by the Ochs-Sulzberger family for more than a century. The Murdoch empire is a relatively young one by comparison, but it would be hard to argue that there is a more powerful media family on earth. The right-wing populist wave that looked like a fleeting cultural phenomenon a few years ago has turned into the defining political movement of the times, disrupting the world order of the last half-century. The Murdoch empire did not cause this wave. But more than any single media company, it enabled it, promoted it and profited from it. Across the English-speaking world, the family’s outlets have helped elevate marginal demagogues, mainstream ethnonationalism and politicize the very notion of truth. The results have been striking. It may not have been the family’s mission to destabilize democracies around the world, but that has been its most consequential legacy. Over the last six months, we have spoken to more than 150 people across three continents about the Murdochs and their empire — some who know the family intimately, some who have helped them achieve their aims, some who have fought against them with varying degrees of success. (Most of these people insisted on anonymity to share intimate details about the family and its business so as not to risk retribution.) The media tend to pay a lot of attention to the media: Fox News is covered almost as closely as the White House and often in the same story. The Murdochs themselves are an enduring object of cultural fascination: “Ink,” a play about Rupert’s rise, is opening soon on Broadway. The second season of HBO’s “Succession,” whose fictional media family, the Roys, bears a striking resemblance to the Murdochs, airs this summer. But what we as reporters had not fully appreciated until now is the extent to which these two stories — one of an illiberal, right-wing reaction sweeping the globe, the other of a dynastic media family — are really one. To see Fox News as an arm of the Trump White House risks missing the larger picture. It may be more accurate to say that the White House — just like the prime ministers’ offices in Britain and Australia — is just one tool among many that this family uses to exert influence over world events. What do the Murdochs want? Family dynamics are complex, too, and media dynasties are animated by different factors — workaday business imperatives, the desire to pass on wealth, an old-fashioned sense of civic duty. But the Murdochs’ global operations suggest a different dynastic orientation, one centered on empire building in the original sense of the term: territorial conquest. Murdoch began with a small regional paper in Australia, inherited from his father. He quickly expanded the business into a national and then an international force, in part by ruthlessly using his platform to help elect his preferred candidates and then ruthlessly using those candidates to help extend his reach. Murdoch’s news empire is a monument to decades’ worth of transactional relationships with elected officials. Murdoch has said that he “never asked a prime minister for anything.” But press barons don’t have to ask when their media outlets can broadcast their desires. Politicians know what Murdoch wants, and they know what he can deliver: the base, their voters — power. The Murdoch approach to empire building has reached its apotheosis in the Trump era. Murdoch had long dreamed of having a close relationship with an American president. On the surface, he and Trump have very little in common: One is a global citizen with homes around the world, a voracious reader with at least some sense of self-awareness. (Murdoch was photographed last year on the beach reading “Utopia for Realists,” by Rutger Bregman, the Dutch historian who later told Tucker Carlson in an interview that Carlson was a “millionaire funded by billionaires.”) The other is a proudly crass American who vacations at his own country clubs, dines on fast food and watches a lot of TV. But they are each a son of an aspiring empire builder, and their respective dynasties shared the same core value — growth through territorial conquest — and employed the same methods to achieve it, leveraging political relationships to gain power and influence. In Trump’s case, these relationships helped him secure zoning exemptions, tax abatements and global licensing deals; in Murdoch’s case, they allowed him to influence and evade antimonopoly and foreign-ownership rules. Murdoch has carefully built an image during his six decades in media as a pragmatist who will support liberal governments when it suits him. Yet his various news outlets have inexorably pushed the flow of history to the right across the Anglosphere, whether they were advocating for the United States and its allies to go to war in Iraq in 2003, undermining global efforts to combat climate change or vilifying people of color at home or from abroad as dangerous threats to a white majority. Even as his empire grew — traversing oceans, countries and media — Murdoch saw to it that it would always remain a family business. Underpinning it was a worldview that the government was the enemy of an independent media and a business model that depended nonetheless on government intervention to advance his interests and undermine those of his competitors. The Murdoch dynasty draws no lines among politics, money and power; they all work together seamlessly in service of the overarching goal of imperial expansion. It would be impossible for an empire as sprawling as Murdoch’s to be completely culturally and ideologically consistent. He is a businessman who wants to satisfy his customers. His assets also include entertainment companies, sports networks and moderate broadsheets. Murdoch embodies these same contradictions. He’s an immigrant stoking nationalism, a billionaire championing populism and a father who never saw any reason to keep his family separate from his business, and in fact had deliberately merged the two. Most dynasties break apart eventually, as decision-making power is dispersed across individuals and generations with different attitudes about their family business and the world in general. No one knows this better than Murdoch, who in 2007 took over Dow Jones, publisher of The Wall Street Journal, by exploiting divisions within the Bancroft family, which had run the paper for more than a century. Murdoch thought he had protected himself from a similar fate by keeping a controlling interest in his empire; no one could take it away from him. The challenge would be holding it together. To understand how the Murdoch empire works, it is essential to return to its origins. On the day in 1931 that Rupert Murdoch was born, his father, Keith Murdoch, was in the midst of his first campaign to elect a prime minister from his newsroom in Australia. As a young newspaperman, Keith gained fame by evading military censors to report on the slaughter of his countrymen during the British-led Gallipoli campaign of World War I. He leveraged that fame to become a powerful executive at the Melbourne Herald and Weekly Times news company, a position that he in turn leveraged to punish his enemies and reward his allies: The candidate he was supporting for prime minister, Joseph Lyons, earlier helped Keith overcome regulatory restrictions to start a radio station for his company in Adelaide, according to the historian Tom Roberts’s 2015 biography of Murdoch’s father, “Before Rupert.” Lyons won, and as Keith saw it, Australia’s new leader served at his pleasure: “I put him there,” he reportedly said when the two later squabbled. “And I’ll put him out.” As Keith was creating one of the country’s first national news chains, a regional Australian newspaper editorialized about the danger of his ambitions, warning, Roberts wrote, that he was creating “a press dictatorship for all Australia with Murdoch-inspired leaders and Murdoch-trained reporters.” Bound up with Keith’s business interests were ideological inclinations not just about how power should work but also about who should be allowed to exercise it: He was a member of the Eugenics Society of Victoria and in an editorial once wrote that the great question facing Britain was “will she, if needs be, fight — for a White Australia?” Keith never built a true media empire. He did own two regional newspapers, one of which had to be sold to pay off his death duties when he died suddenly in 1952. That left only the 75,000-circulation News of Adelaide for his 21-year-old son, who was finishing his degree at Oxford. But Rupert Murdoch had already received something much more valuable from his father: an extended tutorial in how to use media holdings to extract favors from politicians. His first order of business was to establish a proper Murdoch-owned empire in Australia. After buying a couple of additional local papers, he founded the country’s first national general-interest newspaper, The Australian, which gave him a powerful platform to help elect governments that eased national regulations designed to limit the size of media companies. He would eventually take control of nearly two-thirds of the national newspaper market. With the construction of his Australian media empire underway, Murdoch moved on to Britain and Fleet Street, using his newest acquisitions, The News of the World and The Sun, to successfully promote Margaret Thatcher’s candidacy for prime minister. Once elected, her government declined to refer his acquisition of The Times of London to antimonopoly regulators, giving him the country’s leading establishment broadsheet to go with his mass-circulation tabloids. Television was next. After Murdoch lost the bidding for the British government’s sole satellite broadcasting license, Thatcher again came to his rescue, looking the other way when he started a rival service, Sky Television, which beamed programming into Britain from Luxembourg. The bigger Murdoch’s empire became, the more power he had to clear away obstacles to further its expansion. His influence became an uncomfortable fact of British political life, and Murdoch seemed to revel in it. “It’s The Sun Wot Won It,” The Sun declared on its front page in 1992, after helping send the Tory leader John Major to 10 Downing Street by relentlessly smearing the character of his opponent, Neil Kinnock. (“Nightmare on Kinnock Street,” The Sun headlined a savage nine-page package that included a satirical endorsement from the ghost of Joseph Stalin.) Murdoch could switch parties when it suited his purposes and ably supported Britain’s “New Labor” movement in the 1990s: Conservatives at the time had proposed regulations that would have forced him to scale back his newspaper operations in order to expand further into TV. Murdoch used the same playbook in the United States. In 1980, he met Roy Cohn — the former adviser to Senator Joseph McCarthy and a Trump mentor — who introduced him to Gov. Ronald Reagan’s inner circle. It was a group that included Roger Stone Jr., another Trump confidant and the head of Reagan’s New York operations, who said in a later interview that he helped Murdoch weaponize his latest tabloid purchase, The New York Post, on Reagan’s behalf in the 1980 election. Reagan’s team credited Murdoch with delivering him the state that year — Murdoch gave Stone an Election Day printing plate from The Post over a celebratory meal at the 21 Club — and his administration subsequently facilitated Murdoch’s entry into the American television market, quickly approving his application for American citizenship so he could buy TV stations too. The Reagan administration later waived a prohibition against owning a television station and a newspaper in the same market, allowing Murdoch to hold onto his big metro dailies, The New York Post and The Boston Herald, even as he moved into TV in both cities. The administration of George H.W. Bush suspended rules that forbade broadcast networks to own prime-time shows or to profit from them. That move allowed Murdoch to build the nation’s fourth broadcast network by rapidly filling out his schedule with shows from his newly acquired 20th Century Fox studio — “The Simpsons,” “21 Jump Street” — while also earning substantial profits from the production unit’s syndicated rerun hits like “M*A*S*H” and “L.A. Law.” Maybe more than any media mogul of his generation, Murdoch exploited the seismic changes transforming the industry during the waning years of the 20th century (another lesson from Keith, an early adopter of radio and newsreels). These changes were driven by technology: It was now possible to transmit endless amounts of content all over the world in an instant. But they were also driven by regulatory changes, in particular the liberation of TV and radio operators from the government guidelines that ruled the public airwaves. The Reagan administration’s elimination of the Fairness Doctrine, which had for decades required broadcasters to present both sides of any major public-policy debate, spawned a new generation of right-wing radio personalities who were free to provide a different sort of opinion programming to a large, latent conservative audience that was mistrustful of the media in general. It was only a matter of time until similar programming started migrating to the burgeoning medium of 24-hour-a-day cable television. And it was of course Murdoch who imported it. Murdoch had watched enviously as his younger rival, Ted Turner, built his own cable news network, CNN. In 1996, he and Roger Ailes, a former media adviser for Nixon and George H.W. Bush, started their conservative competitor, Fox News, which catered to those Americans whose political preferences had gone unaddressed on television news. Another political favor was crucial. When Time Warner, which owned CNN, refused to carry the new network on its cable system in New York, the city’s Republican mayor, Rudolph W. Giuliani — another future Trump adviser and a lion in the pages of The Post — publicly pressured the cable company as the two sides moved toward an eventual deal. A round-the-clock network with a virtual monopoly on conservative TV news, Fox conferred on Murdoch a whole new sort of influence that was enhanced by politically polarizing events like the Monica Lewinsky scandal and the post-Sept. 11 war in Iraq that marked its early years. If Murdoch’s papers were a blunt instrument, Fox’s influence was in some ways more subtle, but also far more profound: Hour after hour, day after day, it was shaping the realities of the millions of Americans who treated it as their primary news source. A 2007 study found that the introduction of the network on a particular cable system pushed local voters to the right: the Fox News Effect, as it became known. In a 2014 Pew Research poll, a majority of self-described conservatives said it was the only news network they trusted. Murdoch’s office above the Fox newsroom in Midtown Manhattan became a requisite stop on any serious Republican presidential candidate’s schedule. Fifty years and an untold number of deals after taking possession of The News of Adelaide, Murdoch had arrived at the pinnacle of global influence. “Republicans originally thought that Fox worked for us,” David Frum, a former speechwriter for George W. Bush, said in an interview with “Nightline.” “And now we’re discovering we work for Fox.” Murdoch’s success in building his empire inevitably raised the question of who would rule it after he was gone. As he grew older, he would often say privately that he didn’t want to become another Sumner Redstone, the aging media mogul who had refused to cede control of CBS and Viacom, even as he was losing the ability to speak or eat unassisted. But as he turned 75, and then 80, Murdoch, too, had declined to lay out a plan for the future of his empire. Initially he favored Lachlan, installing him as the general manager of one of his Australian newspaper chains at age 22 and overseeing his rise to the post of deputy chief operating officer of News Corp by age 33. But Lachlan’s rise was cut short after he clashed repeatedly with seasoned executives who viewed him as an entitled princeling. Furious at his father for siding against him in these disputes, Lachlan left the company — and the United States — in 2005, returning to the Murdochs’ ancestral homeland with a $100 million payout from the family trust. James, then the chief executive of British Sky Broadcasting — formerly Sky Television, later shortened to Sky — took over the mantle of heir apparent. But by the summer of 2015, Murdoch, now 84, had changed his mind: James was out, and Lachlan was once again next in line. The news was delivered to James not by his father but by Lachlan and the company’s president, Chase Carey, over lunch in Manhattan: Lachlan was moving back to the United States to take over the business. James would report to him. James was livid. The two brothers and their father had explicitly discussed succession not even two years earlier. James was supposed to take over, and Lachlan would never assume more than a symbolic role. As James saw it, he had not only been promised the job; he had earned it. He had devoted years of his life to trying to build the company — moving his family to Hong Kong and London, making monthly trips to Mumbai to push the family’s satellite-TV businesses into emerging technology and new markets — while his brother was off in Australia spearfishing and making dubious investments. Angry and appalled, James threatened to quit, heading straight from lunch to the airport for a flight to Indonesia. With a clipped, near-British accent and a penchant for wearing bluejeans and espadrilles, James reads as an archetype of today’s global power elite. Years ago, he was the family rebel, piercing his ears, dyeing his hair and having a light bulb tattooed on his right arm. As an undergraduate at Harvard, James flirted with becoming a medieval historian and joined the staff of The Harvard Lampoon before dropping out in 1995 to follow the Grateful Dead and start an independent hip-hop label, Rawkus Records, whose artists included Talib Kweli and Mos Def. A year later, his father bought Rawkus and brought James into News Corp, ending his short-lived foray outside the family business. In 2000, James married Kathryn Hufschmid, a fashion-marketing executive and part-time model from Oregon, whom he met on a mutual friend’s yacht bound for Fiji and whose more liberal politics made her an outlier in the Murdoch family. She argued frequently with her father-in-law over Fox’s politics. The constant sparring grew tiresome for Murdoch, who worried that Kathryn had too much influence over his younger son. He would often suggest to James that the two of them just go out to dinner alone when they needed to discuss something, according to a person close to Murdoch. Even inside his father’s empire, James continued to view himself in idealistic terms, as the one best suited to drag the sprawling, often backward-thinking company into the future, whether that meant making all of its offices carbon-neutral, leading investments in digitally oriented businesses like Hulu or moderating the wilder impulses of Fox News. A self-described political centrist, James saw the network as one of the biggest obstacles to his efforts to diversify and expand the company. In a meeting of senior executives, one attendee recalled, he said he wanted to change the image of the Murdoch empire so that it was no longer viewed as a company “defined by a single product with a charismatic founder.” Lachlan identified closely with that charismatic founder. His trajectory was very different from James’s. He shared his father’s attachment to Australia, both to his family’s long history inside the country and to its hypermasculine, rough-hewed culture. When he was younger, he worked as a jackeroo, herding and vaccinating sheep and lambs in rural Australia, and culled kangaroos from the family’s ranch in Cavan with a shotgun. (His father stuck to clay pigeons.) After graduating from Princeton, Lachlan returned to Australia to work in the family business, becoming an instant celebrity, known for wearing outback boots with his suits, riding a Kawasaki motorcycle to work, showing off his armband tattoo while rock climbing and courting the Australian model Sarah O’Hare, whom he married in 1999. Lachlan doesn’t speak publicly about his politics, but his employees in Australia found that he took a hard line on many issues. Chris Mitchell, the longtime editor of The Australian, recalled in his 2016 memoir, “Making Headlines,” that “Lachlan’s conservatism is more vigorous than that of any Australian politician” and that his views were usually to the right of his father’s. Lachlan once presented himself at one of the family’s papers to express displeasure with its decision to run an editorial in support of same-sex marriage, according to three people who knew about the interaction at the time. (Lachlan said through a representative that he had no recollection of the incident and that he supports same-sex marriage.) According to people close to him, Lachlan questions what he sees as the exorbitant cost of addressing climate change and believes that the debate over global warming is getting too much attention. Lachlan viewed his brother as a good executive, but he felt that he was the one who had taken risks and proved himself in Australia. It was true that some of his investments had failed — he’d bought a TV network, Ten, that went into receivership after losing $232 million in six months — but others, including a group of Top-100 and easy-listening radio stations, were earning tens of millions of dollars a year. Murdoch had been trying for years to coax Lachlan back from Australia. Murdoch’s 2013 divorce from his third wife, Wendi Murdoch, helped change Lachlan’s mind. He and James had tried to talk their father out of marrying Wendi over a 1999 dinner at the Manhattan restaurant Babbo — she was the rare subject on which the two sons agreed — and both of them had grown even less fond of her in the years that followed. James and at least one other company executive had heard from senior foreign officials that they believed she was a Chinese intelligence asset. And family members felt that she treated their father terribly, calling him “old” and “stupid.” (A spokesman for Wendi Murdoch denied these claims.) Apart from Wendi, the sons were at odds about almost everything. They were not only fighting over control of their father’s empire; they were fighting over one of his homes, a 8,651-square-foot Spanish-style mansion in Beverly Hills. Murdoch bought the house furnished in the 1980s from the music mogul Jules Stein, and his sons had a sentimental attachment to it, having spent a lot of time there as children. According to six people close to the family, James and Lachlan were upset to learn that their father had put the house on the market and had a $35 million offer on it from Leonardo DiCaprio. The brothers briefly discussed buying the house together; whoever happened to be in L.A. at any given moment could use it. James finally agreed to buy the house himself at a discounted price of $30 million, though after he and Kathryn did so, they learned that it needed four new retaining walls, costing them millions of dollars more. Lachlan was upset that his brother had gotten the house. As a gift, Murdoch gave him some of the antique furniture inside, even though James and Kathryn thought they had bought it furnished. While James was overseas, ready to quit, his father and brother came up with a compromise: All of 21st Century Fox’s divisions would report to both of them. James would be chief executive, while Lachlan would share the more exalted title of co-chairman with his father. The announcement would be carefully worded to suggest that they were coequals, to protect James from the public humiliation, even though Lachlan was technically the senior executive. Their salaries were identical, roughly $20 million a year to start. Each would have access to corporate planes for professional and personal use. James would be based in the company’s corporate offices in Midtown Manhattan, Lachlan on the other side of the country, in the vast chairman’s office formerly occupied by his father in Building 88 on the 21st Century Fox lot, which he decorated with a picture of the Cavan ranch and a 1979 black-and-white photograph of Murdoch standing in front of a New York Post printing press. James warily agreed to the terms, but the question of succession was not fully resolved. The news coverage of their promotions made no distinction between the seniority of their respective positions: Publicly at least, James was still seen as the heir apparent. When the dust finally settled, the two sons sat down for an interview with The Hollywood Reporter headlined, “The New Age of Murdochs.” Lachlan described the transition as “seamless.” In early 2015, Murdoch got a call from Ivanka Trump, proposing lunch with her and her father. They met soon after in the corporate dining room of the Fox News building in Midtown Manhattan. Ivanka’s husband, Jared Kushner, came, too. Just as the first course was being served, Trump told Murdoch that he was going to run for president. Murdoch didn’t even look up from his soup, according to three people who independently shared the story. “You have to be prepared to be rapped up badly,” Murdoch replied, using an expression for taking some knocks. Murdoch was deeply entwined with the Trump family. Trump had aggressively cultivated The Post during his rise to celebrity in New York in the late ’70s and ’80s. Kushner became close to Murdoch after he purchased The New York Observer in 2006. An improbable friendship blossomed between the octogenarian mogul and the 30-something publishing parvenu, with Murdoch and Wendi even taking Kushner and Ivanka on vacation in the Caribbean on Murdoch’s yacht. After Murdoch’s divorce in 2013, Kushner, who was also in the real estate business, helped him find a decorator for his new bachelor apartment. Ivanka was one of five individuals designated to oversee the trust for Murdoch and Wendi’s two daughters, which held $300 million in stock in News Corp and 21st Century Fox. (She relinquished her role as a trustee in 2016.) Murdoch recognized Trump’s appeal as a tabloid character and ratings driver, but he did not see him as a serious person, let alone a credible candidate for president. “He’s a [expletive] idiot,” Murdoch would say when asked about Trump, three people close to him told us (Through a spokeswoman, Murdoch denied that he ever used this phrase to describe Trump.). Roger Ailes, the longtime head of Fox News, was no more generous, at least when Trump was out of earshot. Ailes was close to Trump, too: Their alliance dated back to Rudolph Giuliani’s 1989 New York mayoral campaign, for which Ailes worked as a media adviser and Trump as a fund-raising figurehead. It was Ailes who, in 2011, gave Trump his regular Monday-morning slot on “Fox & Friends,” which Trump used to advance his “birther” campaign. Still, Ailes ranted indignantly about the notion of a Trump presidency, saying that he wasn’t remotely worthy of the Oval Office, a person close to him at the time told us. Fox News’s initial resistance to promoting his candidacy came as an unpleasant surprise to Trump, who had assumed that his relationships with Murdoch and Ailes would ensure positive coverage. Ailes had even written Trump an email asking what he could do to help him. (After scrawling an enthusiastic note on top, Trump sent a printout of that email to his campaign manager, Corey Lewandowski.) During the campaign’s early months, it fell mostly to Ailes to manage the network’s tumultuous relationship with Trump, who complained constantly that Fox favored Ted Cruz and Marco Rubio. Trump was driven into a near-weekly rage by the Fox News host Bret Baier’s Friday-night segment, “Candidate Casino.” Opening with a graphic of a spinning roulette wheel and Vegas-style lights, Baier and his round table of political analysts would place bets on the probable party nominees. Even though Trump was winning in most of the polls, Baier’s parlor of experts regularly placed him toward the bottom of the pack. It was especially galling to Trump because he and Baier had golfed together, and Baier had briefly been a member at the Trump International Golf Club in West Palm Beach. (Baier dropped his membership when it became clear that Trump was likely to run for the presidency.) After the Fox contributor and Weekly Standard editor Stephen F. Hayes called Trump “a clown,” Trump faxed Baier a copy of his résumé, with a note scrawled across it in black marker: “Tell Hayes no clown could have done all this!” Trump even complained about Fox while appearing on Fox, ticking off, during a live interview with Sean Hannity, the contributors who should be fired because they were “biased” against him. Trump wasn’t without leverage in his relationship with Fox. The Murdoch formula was to deliver the enthusiasm of reactionary readers and viewers to chosen candidates, but Trump was already generating plenty of enthusiasm on his own. His hard-core supporters made up Fox’s core audience, and his social media accounts gave him a direct connection to them. If these supporters had to choose between Trump and Fox, Ailes might not like the results. At the same time, a new crop of right-wing outlets — Breitbart, Gateway Pundit, One America News, Sinclair — were embracing his candidacy, and mainstream broadcasters were no less aware of what he could do for their ratings. “I can go on the ‘Today’ show in my pajamas, and five million people will watch,” he warned Ailes, a former Trump campaign official recalled. After the Fox News anchor Megyn Kelly asked Trump, during the first Republican primary debate in the summer of 2015, to defend his comments about women — “You’ve called women you don’t like fat pigs, dogs, slobs and disgusting animals” — Trump demanded that Ailes force her to publicly apologize, according to the former Trump campaign official. (She didn’t.) Six months later, on the eve of another Republican debate in Des Moines, which Trump was boycotting because Kelly was once again moderating, Ailes tried desperately to persuade Trump to change his mind. His hopes were dashed when Trump called him from the tarmac in Iowa to refuse, having just watched the Fox News contributor Charles Krauthammer mock him on the network. Without Trump, the event drew just half the viewership of Fox’s first debate. Kushner was privately lobbying Murdoch to reconsider his attitude toward his father-in-law, showing him videos of the candidate’s overflowing campaign rallies on his iPhone. Even as Trump gained momentum, Murdoch continued to look for alternatives. Over the summer of 2015, he wrote a personal check for $200,000 to the super PAC of Gov. John Kasich, the relatively moderate Republican from Ohio, according to Federal Election Commission filings. Aware of her father-in-law’s dim view of Trump, James’s wife, Kathryn, tried to broker a meeting between Murdoch and Hillary Clinton. Having worked for the Clinton Climate Initiative, she knew both the Clintons and their inner circle of advisers and hoped Murdoch might consider an endorsement, or at least commit to staying neutral. The idea was not so far-fetched. Murdoch had, after all, backed Tony Blair, a Clinton-style Labor Party centrist, and had once even hosted a Senate fund-raiser for Hillary. Murdoch felt he didn’t need his daughter-in-law’s help. In fact, he called Clinton personally, leaving a message at her campaign headquarters. Clinton called back almost immediately but declined his invitation to meet with him. (A spokesman for Clinton did not respond to a request for comment.) During the primaries, Trump honed his political identity, railing against military intervention, free trade and immigration. They were all positions that directly contradicted Murdoch’s own, more neoconservative views. Murdoch had enthusiastically supported the Iraq War, evangelized for open immigration policies — even urging Australia to avoid the “self defeating” anti-immigration debate in the United States — and endorsed international trade agreements like the Trans-Pacific Partnership. His attitude toward Trump’s emergent ideology was often captured on the unremittingly anti-Trump editorial page of The Wall Street Journal. The page’s editor, Paul Gigot, was in frequent contact with his paper’s owner, according to sources familiar with the conversations. And yet Murdoch was in a sense responsible for unleashing the forces that were now propelling Trump’s rise. During the Obama years, Fox News had found ratings and profits with its wall-to-wall coverage of raucous Tea Party rallies and the opinion shows that advanced the campaign to delegitimize the country’s first African-American president. As the Republican nominating process progressed, this populist, anti-establishment energy was unmistakably coalescing around Trump. By March 2016, Donald Trump, the man Murdoch had so quickly dismissed a year earlier, was now the clear front-runner, and Murdoch was taking his first tentative steps toward embracing him. “If he becomes inevitable, party would be mad not to unify,” he tweeted. Across the Atlantic, a similar right-wing wave was threatening to drive Britain out of the European Union. Murdoch had a hand in that as well. His most influential tabloid, The Sun, had long been advocating for an exit from the E.U., and so had Murdoch himself, distilling his opposition to the E.U. into a single quote to Anthony Hilton, a columnist at The Evening Standard: “When I go into Downing Street, they do what I say; when I go to Brussels, they take no notice.” (Murdoch subsequently denied saying this; Hilton stood by the quote.) Prime Minister John Major told a judicial inquiry that in 1997 Murdoch said that he could not support him if he didn’t change his stance toward Europe, which the prime minister took as a demand for an E.U. referendum. (Murdoch denied this, too.) As the summer of 2016 approached, that referendum was finally coming. The idea of Britain’s splitting from the E.U. had always seemed more like a nativist fever dream than a realistic political goal. But in 2016, Brexit proponents could scan the globe and see cause for optimism. Not only was Trump’s campaign surging in the United States, but reactionary nationalism was also gaining supporters worldwide: In Austria’s presidential elections, the candidate of the Freedom Party, founded by former Nazi officers, narrowly lost in a runoff. The Philippines had just elected as president Rodrigo Duterte, following a campaign during which he inveighed against the country’s business and political elites and promised to kill so many criminals that the fish in Manila Bay would “grow fat” from feeding on their dead bodies. Hungary’s prime minister, Viktor Orban, had already built his own version of a border wall, miles of barbed wire aimed at turning back what he later called “Muslim invaders.” In the weeks leading up to the vote, The Sun led the London tabloids in hammering the case for leaving the European Union. It cast Brexit as a choice between the “arrogant europhiles” and the country’s working class, while railing against “mass immigration which keeps wages low and puts catastrophic pressure on our schools, hospitals, roads and housing stock.” It still looked like a long shot, and Murdoch’s other British newspaper, the more sober Times, had encouraged its wealthier and more politically moderate readers to vote in favor of remaining in the European Union. But The Sun was where Murdoch’s heart — and influence — lay. How much influence he still wielded in British politics was an open question. Murdoch had effectively been chased out of London five years earlier in the wake of the biggest crisis of his career: the revelations that his News of the World tabloid had, in search of dirt, been systematically hacking into the phones of politicians, celebrities, royals and even a 13-year-old schoolgirl. The scandal that followed, itself fit for tabloid headlines, would permanently alter the course of both the family and its empire. One of Murdoch’s executives, Rebekah Brooks, a virtual seventh child to Murdoch, was arrested, tried and acquitted. Andy Coulson, a former Murdoch editor who had gone to work for Prime Minister David Cameron, was sent to prison for encouraging his reporters to engage in illegal practices. In a futile effort at damage control, the company spent millions of dollars settling claims from hacking victims. Murdoch and James, who was running the company’s European and Asian operations from London at the time, were grilled in a public hearing before Parliament. James denied knowing that the phone-hacking was widespread but was publicly confronted with an email he was sent in 2008 alerting him to the potential severity of the problem. (He said that he had not reviewed “the full email chain.”) It was a corporate scandal, but because of the nature of this corporation, it was also a family matter. James blamed his father for having allowed the freebooting, anything-goes culture to take root at the paper and for forcing him to absorb so much of the blame for the scandal, when the hacking itself took place before he took charge. As James saw it, his father was angry that he wouldn’t conduct a cover-up; James went so far as to tell some members of the board that he was concerned about Murdoch’s mental health. For his part, Murdoch blamed James for surrounding himself with feckless, sycophantic advisers who failed to neutralize the crisis when it still could have been contained. Elisabeth, having long been out of the succession mix, reinserted herself, urging her father to fire James and replace him with her, four people familiar with the conversations told us. (Through a spokesperson, Elisabeth denied that she encouraged her brother’s firing or asked for his job.) Murdoch agreed to fire James but reversed his decision before it became public. Lachlan used the opportunity to play the family savior in a time of crisis, calling his father from Bangkok — en route to Britain from Australia — to urge him not to do anything rash. He swept into the company’s London offices looking tan, fit and rested, despite the daylong flight from Australia. His presence appeared to be an instant comfort to his father. The public shaming did not end with the scandal — a worldwide news event for months — or the interrogation by Parliament. A judicial inquiry investigated the practices of the British press, with Murdoch’s papers front and center. The resulting document, the Leveson Report, depicted a country in which a single family had amassed so much power that it had come to feel that the rules did not apply to them. “Sometimes the very greatest power is exercised without having to ask,” the report said. In their discussions with Murdoch, “politicians knew that the prize was personal and political support in his mass-circulation newspapers.” By the time the Leveson Report was released in 2012, Murdoch had shut down The News of the World and was keeping a low profile in Britain. Several factors accounted for his return in 2016, including his recent marriage to his fourth wife, Jerry Hall. They met in Australia, where Hall was playing Mrs. Robinson in a stage adaptation of “The Graduate.” Hall had a teenage son in London, and she and Murdoch were spending a lot of time in the 26-room house that she owned with her former partner, Mick Jagger. Now back in the city where he once wooed Margaret Thatcher, Murdoch used Britain’s largest tabloid to rally readers to vote to leave the European Union. The Sun’s cover on the day of the Brexit referendum was a picture of corporate synergy: “Independence Day: Britain’s Resurgence,” it read, over a mock version of the poster for the 21st Century Fox movie “Independence Day: Resurgence,” which opened in Britain that day. Murdoch flew in to London from Cannes for the vote and soon visited the newsroom of the anti-Brexit Times to gloat, joking to his reporters about their glum faces. Later, he likened the country’s decision to leave the European Union to “a prison break” and celebrated the vote with Nigel Farage, a leading architect of Brexit (and a future Fox News contributor), at a garden party at the London mansion of the Russian oligarch Evgeny Lebedev. The referendum represented the realization of a long-deferred dream for Murdoch. But it also returned him to a position of influence in British politics that seemed inconceivable just a few years earlier. Not only had The Sun played a critical role in delivering the Brexit vote, but in the ensuing political upheaval, it had swung behind Theresa May, helping ensure her election as prime minister. Once in office, she found time for a private meeting with Murdoch on one of her first foreign trips: a less-than-36-hour visit to New York to address the United Nations. Days after the vote, Trump, who had seemed to be struggling with the basic principles of Brexit in an interview with The Sun a few weeks earlier, visited Scotland for a victory lap of his own: “I said this was going to happen, and I think that it’s a great thing.” He, too, found time for Murdoch, inviting him and Jerry Hall to dinner with Kushner and Ivanka at his golf course in Aberdeen. Photographers captured them riding off in a golf cart, with Trump at the wheel and Murdoch lounging in the back. The summer of 2016 was a good time to be a network with a dedicated audience of right-wing viewers. And yet the future of Fox News had never seemed more uncertain: Murdoch’s flagship network was now backing a Republican presidential nominee who not only represented a radical departure from the party’s traditional platform but who also seemed destined to lose in a few months. What’s more, that network’s lodestar, Roger Ailes, had just been forced out following multiple claims of sexual harassment. It was James and Lachlan who teamed up to push Ailes out, over the initial objections of their father. Ailes was another rare subject on which the two sons agreed, though they disliked him for different reasons. Lachlan had clashed repeatedly with Ailes early in his career in New York. He told friends that he reached his breaking point with his father in 2005 when he learned that Murdoch had said to Ailes, “Don’t worry about the boy.” For his part, James saw Ailes as a boorish showman who embodied many of the most retrograde impulses of the network’s opinion programming: its nativism; its paranoiac attitude toward Muslims and undocumented immigrants; its embrace of conspiracy; and, maybe most of all, its climate-change denialism. James saw in Ailes’s exit an opportunity to push the network in a new direction. He wanted to bring in an experienced news executive who would reposition it as a more responsible, if still conservative, outlet — one whose hosts would no longer be free to vent without adhering to basic standards of accuracy, fairness and, as he saw it, decency. One candidate he had in mind was David Rhodes. Then the president of CBS News, Rhodes was a former Fox News executive, as well as the brother of Ben Rhodes, a foreign-policy adviser for Obama. Both Murdoch and Lachlan dismissed the idea. They wanted continuity, not change. Like his father, Lachlan considered the idea of meddling with such an important profit driver a form of madness. Rather than replace Ailes with a new executive, Murdoch moved into his office and took over the job himself, a short-term solution intended to reassure both shareholders and talent. He was soon back in the newsroom, attending meetings and visiting sets — “my retirement job,” he called it — and was having more fun than he’d had in years. Having once dismissed Trump’s candidacy, Murdoch now threw himself wholly behind it. During the final stretch of the campaign, Fox cut back appearances by anti-Trump analysts and contributors and added pro-Trump ones, while also ramping up its attacks on Hillary Clinton. Sean Hannity built shows around the same sorts of false claims that were circulating on far-right internet sites and suspected Russian social media accounts, suggesting that Clinton was suffering from a possibly life-threatening illness and that one of her Secret Service agents was carrying a diazepam pen, which is commonly used to treat seizures. (It was actually a flashlight.) One anti-Clinton segment was built around an appearance by Jeff Rovin, who had for years been the editor in chief of The Weekly World News, the supermarket tabloid best known for claiming that Hillary Clinton was possessed by Satan and had carried on an affair with a space alien named P’Lod. Other Murdoch outlets were swinging behind Trump, too: At The Wall Street Journal’s editorial page, Trump critics felt increasing pressure to moderate their positions. (The Journal’s news side, by contrast, broke the first story about The National Enquirer’s role in Trump’s efforts to buy the silence of women claiming affairs with him.) With Clinton taking on an air of inevitability, James and Kathryn invited Kushner and Ivanka to a small dinner salon they were hosting at their Upper East Side townhouse with a guest speaker: Adm. James Stavridis, a Democrat who had been talked about as a possible vice-presidential pick for Clinton. James and Kathryn knew Kushner and Ivanka socially and considered the invitation a gesture of empathy, a person who attended the dinner told us. They had endured their own public humiliation during the hacking scandal in London and wanted to show solidarity with the couple, and they also let them know that they would be welcomed back into polite Manhattan society after Trump lost. As the early returns came in on election night, Kathryn received a text message from her father-in-law, who was in the Fox newsroom: “Looks like your girl’s going to win.” Continue reading Part 2, when Trump’s presidency cements Murdoch’s global influence — and the bitter struggle between his sons threatens to tear the company apart. April 3, 2019 April 3, 2019 April 3, 2019 Jonathan Mahler is a staff writer for the magazine who has previously written about the relationship between CNN and Donald Trump. Jim Rutenberg is the Times media columnist and a writer at large for the magazine, writing about media and political organizations. Photo illustrations by Joan Wong Photo illustrations by Joan WongSupported by By Annie Karni, Katie Rogers and Maggie Haberman WASHINGTON — There was no golf. There were no meetings. There were no activities, other than a rare visit to church. So President Trump did what he could do: He tweeted. Since his election, Mr. Trump has averaged about 16 tweets per weekend, according to a New York Times analysis of his tweets as collected by the Trump Twitter Archive website. But last weekend proved to be an unusually active 48 hours online for Mr. Trump: From Friday morning to Sunday evening, Mr. Trump tweeted over 50 times, counting the retweets that amplified supporters who have limited public reach on their own. Ensconced in the White House, Mr. Trump saw enemies everywhere, and his tweets reflected that, stoking new tensions and nursing past grievances. He took on “Saturday Night Live,” which on March 16 aired a rerun from Christmas, and suggested that the Federal Communications Commission “look into” late-night shows and examine them for anti-Trump bias. He accused Senator John McCain, who died of brain cancer last year, of collaborating with Democrats and claimed that Mr. McCain, a former prisoner of war, was “last in his class” at the Naval Academy. (Mr. McCain actually graduated fifth from the bottom.) And he defended Tucker Carlson and Jeanine Pirro, the Fox News opinion hosts who have been under fire for making bigoted statements, encouraging Fox executives to “stay strong” in the face of criticism. Mr. Trump’s advisers have shared with him data showing that even his supporters do not like the tweet storms, and have advised him to act more “presidential” as his re-election campaign draws nearer. At rallies, even die-hard Trump fans who arrive early dressed in “MAGA” gear admit that while they are willing to overlook the president’s online musings, they would prefer seeing fewer of them. Mr. Trump often likes to buck the advice he gets, and it was clear over the weekend that he was trusting his gut again, and going his own way. “Stop working soooo hard on being politically correct, which will only bring you down, and continue to fight for our Country,” he said in a tweet on Sunday that appeared to be directed at Fox executives who had temporarily removed Ms. Pirro from her Saturday night slot after she suggested that Representative Ilhan Omar, Democrat of Minnesota and one of the first two Muslim women elected to Congress, may practice Shariah law. “The losers all want what you have, don’t give it to them. Be strong & prosper, be weak & die!” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter. He also singled out two weekend Fox News anchors, Arthel Neville and Leland Vittert, who are less opinionated than the late-night hosts who double as the president’s personal friends and informal advisers, asking rhetorically whether they were “trained by CNN prior to their ratings collapse.” Later on Sunday, he shared a homemade meme from a little-known Twitter user, who goes by the handle @LonewolfnDuke, which depicted him as “an American president having to fight an American government to protect American citizens.” But it was unclear what had provoked the president’s flurry of activity, and even advisers were searching for the normal cues that set him off: White House officials performing poorly on the Sunday show circuit, or the president’s delayed distillation of negative coverage from the week before. Mr. Trump on Friday was rebuked by Senate Republicans, 12 of whom voted with Democrats against a national emergency to build a border wall. But the border barely figured into Mr. Trump’s weekend tweets, which appeared to be driven more by idle hands and an empty weekend schedule. People who spoke with Mr. Trump on the phone over the weekend said he seemed to be in good spirits. Others who communicated with him said he had spent some time railing privately against Andrew G. McCabe, the former deputy F.B.I. director. But they also said he appeared to be a little aimless, and the outpouring seemed to be more driven by a lack of structure. Mr. Trump had skipped his regular weekend trip to Mar-a-Lago, his Florida estate, because of a family commitment that kept him grounded in Washington. There was a four-hour lull in Mr. Trump’s online activity on Sunday, when he left the White House to visit St. John’s Church for St. Patrick’s Day. But for the most part, the president — bored, agitated or both — appeared to spend the weekend online. Mr. Trump shared with his 59.1 million followers a report circulating on right-wing sites that Minnesota Democrats had grown unhappy with Ms. Omar, and accused a “Democrat” union leader in Ohio of standing in the way of putting an idling General Motors plant in the state back into operation. Jack Posobiec, a Trump supporter known for advancing conspiracy theories on Twitter, including “Pizzagate,” marveled that his messages were being retweeted by the leader of the free world. The president shared two tweets initially sent by Mr. Posobiec, one a local news article about an MS-13 gang stabbing, and another criticizing CNN over a segment examining the links between Mr. Trump and white nationalism. “I realize the president’s just reading my Twitter account going through the tweets,” Mr. Posobiec said in a 13-minute video he posted analyzing the experience. “Let’s see what else he’s up to today.” As is often the case, there was a correlation between what appeared on Mr. Trump’s Twitter feed and the programming on Fox News. The weekend tour into conspiracy theories kicked off on Friday, when Mr. Trump elevated a nascent movement that calls itself “Jexodus,” the brainchild of a conservative Jewish activist that describes itself as a group of “proud Jewish millennials tired of living in bondage to leftist politics.” “The ‘Jexodus’ movement encourages Jewish people to leave the Democrat Party,” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter, although there is no evidence to suggest that Jewish voters have been deserting the party. But Mr. Trump appeared to be reacting to an appearance on “Fox & Friends” by the group’s spokeswoman, Elizabeth Pipko, a former model and Trump 2016 campaign staff member. Brian Ott, who studies the effects of rhetoric at Texas Tech University and is the author of a book studying Mr. Trump’s tweets, said the president appeared to have become less concerned with the consequences of his messaging. “Not only is it already getting worse,” Dr. Ott said, “I don’t think we’ve even seen the tip of the iceberg yet. As these investigations begin to close in on him, really his only play is to stoke vitriol and violence.” Tweeting has also become a normal part of how the president circumvents the news media and his own advisers to communicate to the public what is on his mind. But the weekend whirlwind was so unusual that it created its own mini news cycle, with targets using their own platforms to respond and aides fielding questions from reporters about the president’s mental state. Kellyanne Conway, counselor to the president, defended him on Monday morning after her husband, George Conway, spent the weekend raising concerns about “Narcissistic Personality Disorder” and said on Twitter that Mr. Trump’s “condition is getting worse.” “No, I don’t share those concerns,” Ms. Conway told reporters outside the White House. Meghan McCain, a host of “The View” and the daughter of Mr. McCain, said the attacks — which included a presidential retweet of a woman who claimed that “Millions of Americans truly LOVE President Trump, not McCain” — only made her feel bad for Mr. Trump’s family. “I can’t imagine having a father that does this on the weekends,” Ms. McCain said.   

Supported by By Annie Karni, Katie Rogers and Maggie Haberman WASHINGTON — There was no golf. There were no meetings. There were no activities, other than a rare visit to church. So President Trump did what he could do: He tweeted. Since his election, Mr. Trump has averaged about 16 tweets per weekend, according to a New York Times analysis of his tweets as collected by the Trump Twitter Archive website. But last weekend proved to be an unusually active 48 hours online for Mr. Trump: From Friday morning to Sunday evening, Mr. Trump tweeted over 50 times, counting the retweets that amplified supporters who have limited public reach on their own. Ensconced in the White House, Mr. Trump saw enemies everywhere, and his tweets reflected that, stoking new tensions and nursing past grievances. He took on “Saturday Night Live,” which on March 16 aired a rerun from Christmas, and suggested that the Federal Communications Commission “look into” late-night shows and examine them for anti-Trump bias. He accused Senator John McCain, who died of brain cancer last year, of collaborating with Democrats and claimed that Mr. McCain, a former prisoner of war, was “last in his class” at the Naval Academy. (Mr. McCain actually graduated fifth from the bottom.) And he defended Tucker Carlson and Jeanine Pirro, the Fox News opinion hosts who have been under fire for making bigoted statements, encouraging Fox executives to “stay strong” in the face of criticism. Mr. Trump’s advisers have shared with him data showing that even his supporters do not like the tweet storms, and have advised him to act more “presidential” as his re-election campaign draws nearer. At rallies, even die-hard Trump fans who arrive early dressed in “MAGA” gear admit that while they are willing to overlook the president’s online musings, they would prefer seeing fewer of them. Mr. Trump often likes to buck the advice he gets, and it was clear over the weekend that he was trusting his gut again, and going his own way. “Stop working soooo hard on being politically correct, which will only bring you down, and continue to fight for our Country,” he said in a tweet on Sunday that appeared to be directed at Fox executives who had temporarily removed Ms. Pirro from her Saturday night slot after she suggested that Representative Ilhan Omar, Democrat of Minnesota and one of the first two Muslim women elected to Congress, may practice Shariah law. “The losers all want what you have, don’t give it to them. Be strong & prosper, be weak & die!” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter. He also singled out two weekend Fox News anchors, Arthel Neville and Leland Vittert, who are less opinionated than the late-night hosts who double as the president’s personal friends and informal advisers, asking rhetorically whether they were “trained by CNN prior to their ratings collapse.” Later on Sunday, he shared a homemade meme from a little-known Twitter user, who goes by the handle @LonewolfnDuke, which depicted him as “an American president having to fight an American government to protect American citizens.” But it was unclear what had provoked the president’s flurry of activity, and even advisers were searching for the normal cues that set him off: White House officials performing poorly on the Sunday show circuit, or the president’s delayed distillation of negative coverage from the week before. Mr. Trump on Friday was rebuked by Senate Republicans, 12 of whom voted with Democrats against a national emergency to build a border wall. But the border barely figured into Mr. Trump’s weekend tweets, which appeared to be driven more by idle hands and an empty weekend schedule. People who spoke with Mr. Trump on the phone over the weekend said he seemed to be in good spirits. Others who communicated with him said he had spent some time railing privately against Andrew G. McCabe, the former deputy F.B.I. director. But they also said he appeared to be a little aimless, and the outpouring seemed to be more driven by a lack of structure. Mr. Trump had skipped his regular weekend trip to Mar-a-Lago, his Florida estate, because of a family commitment that kept him grounded in Washington. There was a four-hour lull in Mr. Trump’s online activity on Sunday, when he left the White House to visit St. John’s Church for St. Patrick’s Day. But for the most part, the president — bored, agitated or both — appeared to spend the weekend online. Mr. Trump shared with his 59.1 million followers a report circulating on right-wing sites that Minnesota Democrats had grown unhappy with Ms. Omar, and accused a “Democrat” union leader in Ohio of standing in the way of putting an idling General Motors plant in the state back into operation. Jack Posobiec, a Trump supporter known for advancing conspiracy theories on Twitter, including “Pizzagate,” marveled that his messages were being retweeted by the leader of the free world. The president shared two tweets initially sent by Mr. Posobiec, one a local news article about an MS-13 gang stabbing, and another criticizing CNN over a segment examining the links between Mr. Trump and white nationalism. “I realize the president’s just reading my Twitter account going through the tweets,” Mr. Posobiec said in a 13-minute video he posted analyzing the experience. “Let’s see what else he’s up to today.” As is often the case, there was a correlation between what appeared on Mr. Trump’s Twitter feed and the programming on Fox News. The weekend tour into conspiracy theories kicked off on Friday, when Mr. Trump elevated a nascent movement that calls itself “Jexodus,” the brainchild of a conservative Jewish activist that describes itself as a group of “proud Jewish millennials tired of living in bondage to leftist politics.” “The ‘Jexodus’ movement encourages Jewish people to leave the Democrat Party,” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter, although there is no evidence to suggest that Jewish voters have been deserting the party. But Mr. Trump appeared to be reacting to an appearance on “Fox & Friends” by the group’s spokeswoman, Elizabeth Pipko, a former model and Trump 2016 campaign staff member. Brian Ott, who studies the effects of rhetoric at Texas Tech University and is the author of a book studying Mr. Trump’s tweets, said the president appeared to have become less concerned with the consequences of his messaging. “Not only is it already getting worse,” Dr. Ott said, “I don’t think we’ve even seen the tip of the iceberg yet. As these investigations begin to close in on him, really his only play is to stoke vitriol and violence.” Tweeting has also become a normal part of how the president circumvents the news media and his own advisers to communicate to the public what is on his mind. But the weekend whirlwind was so unusual that it created its own mini news cycle, with targets using their own platforms to respond and aides fielding questions from reporters about the president’s mental state. Kellyanne Conway, counselor to the president, defended him on Monday morning after her husband, George Conway, spent the weekend raising concerns about “Narcissistic Personality Disorder” and said on Twitter that Mr. Trump’s “condition is getting worse.” “No, I don’t share those concerns,” Ms. Conway told reporters outside the White House. Meghan McCain, a host of “The View” and the daughter of Mr. McCain, said the attacks — which included a presidential retweet of a woman who claimed that “Millions of Americans truly LOVE President Trump, not McCain” — only made her feel bad for Mr. Trump’s family. “I can’t imagine having a father that does this on the weekends,” Ms. McCain said.   Supported by Best of Late Night By Giovanni Russonello Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox. Trevor Noah celebrated the court conviction of Joaquín Guzmán Loera, the Mexican drug kingpin known as El Chapo, but wondered about the safety of the jurors who handed down the verdict. Noah quoted from a Fox News report saying that the jury had spent 34 hours deliberating. “I liked that part where they said 34 hours of deliberations. No, it was five minutes of deliberations, and 33 hours and 55 minutes of booking flights out of the country, getting their names changed and scheduling plastic surgery.” — TREVOR NOAH “They’re always going to find Mexican drug lord El Chapo guilty. He’s Mexican drug lord El Chapo. That’s like asking, ‘What does Chance the Rapper do for a living?’ He raps. It’s right there in his name.” — TREVOR NOAH “Today a jury in New York convicted Mexican drug lord El Chapo, and now he’s facing life in prison. I’ll have a joke about this after I’m 100 percent sure he’s spending his life.” — JIMMY FALLON Noah poked fun at President Trump for promoting a touched-up version of a campaign mantra during a speech in El Paso on Tuesday. When the crowd chanted, “Build the wall,” the president admonished: “You really mean ‘Finish that wall,’ because we’ve built a lot of it.” Noah was not convinced. “They’ve built a lot of it? Wait, what? So now we’re doing ‘Finish the Wall’? I don’t know how much actual work they’re doing on the border, but I guess in Trump’s chant world they’re making a lot of progress. Yeah. ‘Build the Wall! Finish the Wall! Cool, We Built the Wall! Build Another Wall! On Top of the Old Wall! Double-Decker Wall!’” — TREVOR NOAH Jimmy Kimmel suggested that to figure out whether Mr. Trump will approve a bipartisan border-security deal, he would look to Fox News. “Republicans and Democrats last night did the unthinkable and reached a deal to keep the government open. Now it’s up to Sean Hannity and Ann Coulter to decide if the president will sign it.” — JIMMY KIMMEL “If there weren’t enough embarrassing stories coming out of Virginia, a man there was arrested for projecting porn onto his garage door. I guess he thought it was too on-the-nose to project it onto the tool shed.” — STEPHEN COLBERT “Amazon announced today it will launch a dedicated Coachella Music Festival page on its site, where customers can shop for festival needs. That story again: Amazon sells drugs now.” — SETH MEYERS Conan O’Brien announced that he’s going to Australia next week — and it’s at least partly because he’s scared of Hugh Jackman. James Corden’s game Flinch is good, clean, cruel fun. His victims this time are the actresses Priyanka Chopra Jonas and Rebel Wilson. Noah and Colbert will chat on “The Late Show” on Wednesday. Selecting a strong Democratic candidate for 2020 will depend on finding someone compelling — or outrageous — enough to wrest screen time away from Trump, our media critic writes. Plus, Ideas for What to Watch Tonight: The 50 Best Movies on Netflix Right Now The 25 Best Films of the 21st Century The Best Movies on Amazon Prime Video Right Now

Supported by Best of Late Night By Giovanni Russonello Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox. Trevor Noah celebrated the court conviction of Joaquín Guzmán Loera, the Mexican drug kingpin known as El Chapo, but wondered about the safety of the jurors who handed down the verdict. Noah quoted from a Fox News report saying that the jury had spent 34 hours deliberating. “I liked that part where they said 34 hours of deliberations. No, it was five minutes of deliberations, and 33 hours and 55 minutes of booking flights out of the country, getting their names changed and scheduling plastic surgery.” — TREVOR NOAH “They’re always going to find Mexican drug lord El Chapo guilty. He’s Mexican drug lord El Chapo. That’s like asking, ‘What does Chance the Rapper do for a living?’ He raps. It’s right there in his name.” — TREVOR NOAH “Today a jury in New York convicted Mexican drug lord El Chapo, and now he’s facing life in prison. I’ll have a joke about this after I’m 100 percent sure he’s spending his life.” — JIMMY FALLON Noah poked fun at President Trump for promoting a touched-up version of a campaign mantra during a speech in El Paso on Tuesday. When the crowd chanted, “Build the wall,” the president admonished: “You really mean ‘Finish that wall,’ because we’ve built a lot of it.” Noah was not convinced. “They’ve built a lot of it? Wait, what? So now we’re doing ‘Finish the Wall’? I don’t know how much actual work they’re doing on the border, but I guess in Trump’s chant world they’re making a lot of progress. Yeah. ‘Build the Wall! Finish the Wall! Cool, We Built the Wall! Build Another Wall! On Top of the Old Wall! Double-Decker Wall!’” — TREVOR NOAH Jimmy Kimmel suggested that to figure out whether Mr. Trump will approve a bipartisan border-security deal, he would look to Fox News. “Republicans and Democrats last night did the unthinkable and reached a deal to keep the government open. Now it’s up to Sean Hannity and Ann Coulter to decide if the president will sign it.” — JIMMY KIMMEL “If there weren’t enough embarrassing stories coming out of Virginia, a man there was arrested for projecting porn onto his garage door. I guess he thought it was too on-the-nose to project it onto the tool shed.” — STEPHEN COLBERT “Amazon announced today it will launch a dedicated Coachella Music Festival page on its site, where customers can shop for festival needs. That story again: Amazon sells drugs now.” — SETH MEYERS Conan O’Brien announced that he’s going to Australia next week — and it’s at least partly because he’s scared of Hugh Jackman. James Corden’s game Flinch is good, clean, cruel fun. His victims this time are the actresses Priyanka Chopra Jonas and Rebel Wilson. Noah and Colbert will chat on “The Late Show” on Wednesday. Selecting a strong Democratic candidate for 2020 will depend on finding someone compelling — or outrageous — enough to wrest screen time away from Trump, our media critic writes. Plus, Ideas for What to Watch Tonight: The 50 Best Movies on Netflix Right Now The 25 Best Films of the 21st Century The Best Movies on Amazon Prime Video Right NowSupported by By The Associated Press NEW YORK — Between the Final Four, the week's most popular entertainment special and their usual solid shows, there was no stopping CBS this past week. The Nielsen company said CBS had the eight most-watched shows of last week, led by the men's national basketball semifinal that matched Texas Tech and Michigan State. The Academy of Country Music awards show also made it into Nielsen's top 10. "The Big Bang Theory" seems destined to go out on top, since it was the week's most popular scripted show as it heads into its final run before signing off in May. NBC's "This is Us" was seen by 8.2 million people live last week for its season finale. CBS averaged 8.6 million viewers in prime time. NBC was second with 4.6 million, ABC had 4.1 million, Fox had 2.5 million, Univision had 1.4 million, ION Television had 1.3 million, Telemundo had 1.1 million and the CW had 630,000. Fox News Channel was the week's most popular cable network, averaging 2.28 million viewers in prime time. MSNBC had 1.6 million, HGTV had 1.22 million, TBS had 1.08 million and ESPN had 1.05 million. ABC's "World News Tonight" topped the evening newscasts with an average of 8.1 million viewers. NBC's "Nightly News" was second with 7.6 million and the "CBS Evening News" had 5.7 million. For the week of April 1-7, the top 10 shows, their networks and viewerships: NCAA Men's Final Four: Texas Tech vs. Michigan St., CBS, 15.84 million; "Final Four Basketball Bridge," CBS, 13.77 million; "The Big Bang Theory," CBS, 12.23 million; "NCIS," CBS, 11.9 million; "Young Sheldon," CBS, 10.51 million; "ACM Awards," CBS, 9.92 million; "60 Minutes," CBS, 9.51 million; "FBI," CBS, 9.08 million; "The Voice," NBC, 8.52 million; "Chicago Fire," NBC, 8.25 million. ___ ABC is owned by The Walt Disney Co. CBS is owned by CBS Corp. CW is a joint venture of Warner Bros. Entertainment and CBS Corp. Fox is owned by 21st Century Fox. NBC and Telemundo are owned by Comcast Corp. ION Television is owned by ION Media Networks. ___ Online: http://www.nielsen.com

Supported by By The Associated Press NEW YORK — Between the Final Four, the week's most popular entertainment special and their usual solid shows, there was no stopping CBS this past week. The Nielsen company said CBS had the eight most-watched shows of last week, led by the men's national basketball semifinal that matched Texas Tech and Michigan State. The Academy of Country Music awards show also made it into Nielsen's top 10. "The Big Bang Theory" seems destined to go out on top, since it was the week's most popular scripted show as it heads into its final run before signing off in May. NBC's "This is Us" was seen by 8.2 million people live last week for its season finale. CBS averaged 8.6 million viewers in prime time. NBC was second with 4.6 million, ABC had 4.1 million, Fox had 2.5 million, Univision had 1.4 million, ION Television had 1.3 million, Telemundo had 1.1 million and the CW had 630,000. Fox News Channel was the week's most popular cable network, averaging 2.28 million viewers in prime time. MSNBC had 1.6 million, HGTV had 1.22 million, TBS had 1.08 million and ESPN had 1.05 million. ABC's "World News Tonight" topped the evening newscasts with an average of 8.1 million viewers. NBC's "Nightly News" was second with 7.6 million and the "CBS Evening News" had 5.7 million. For the week of April 1-7, the top 10 shows, their networks and viewerships: NCAA Men's Final Four: Texas Tech vs. Michigan St., CBS, 15.84 million; "Final Four Basketball Bridge," CBS, 13.77 million; "The Big Bang Theory," CBS, 12.23 million; "NCIS," CBS, 11.9 million; "Young Sheldon," CBS, 10.51 million; "ACM Awards," CBS, 9.92 million; "60 Minutes," CBS, 9.51 million; "FBI," CBS, 9.08 million; "The Voice," NBC, 8.52 million; "Chicago Fire," NBC, 8.25 million. ___ ABC is owned by The Walt Disney Co. CBS is owned by CBS Corp. CW is a joint venture of Warner Bros. Entertainment and CBS Corp. Fox is owned by 21st Century Fox. NBC and Telemundo are owned by Comcast Corp. ION Television is owned by ION Media Networks. ___ Online: http://www.nielsen.comSupported by Good Thursday morning. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today. _____________________ • After almost two years of subpoenas, indictments and search warrants, the results of Robert Mueller’s investigation will be made public today. The partially redacted report will tell us a lot about Russia’s 2016 election interference, possible contacts between Moscow and the Trump campaign and the still-contested issue of presidential obstruction. Here’s a full guide to what to expect. • Some of the report’s findings will not be news to President Trump. Justice Department officials have had numerous conversations with White House lawyers about the special counsel’s conclusions, which has aided the president’s legal team in preparing a rebuttal. • Julián Castro, the former housing secretary and San Antonio mayor, brings youth and diversity to the Democratic presidential field. But, overshadowed by some peers, he has failed to get traction in early polls. • There’s an unlikely new hot spot for Democratic candidates: Fox News. A network known for conservative commentary and staunch loyalty to the president is drawing Democratic candidates eager for a big platform with access to Trump voters. • Former Gov. Terry McAuliffe of Virginia, a prominent political fund-raiser and close friend of the Clintons, announced that he would not run for president in 2020. • The attorney general issued an order on Tuesday that could keep thousands of asylum-seeking migrants in jail while they wait for their requests to be evaluated by a judge. But what is asylum, and who can seek it? Here’s an explainer on the new restrictions. • Supporters of a new tax incentive meant to increase investment in struggling communities are worried that proposed regulations could steer money into real estate development instead of start-up businesses, which are more likely to create well-paying, long-term jobs. • The Democrats on the Federal Trade Commission want to penalize companies that falsely market products as American-made, while the Republicans don’t. Strangely, that seems to put the Democrats more in line with Mr. Trump. • There’s been a recent surge in state and private funding for gun research, as a result of high-profile mass shootings and donations from billionaires aimed at lifting academic studies and funding a new generation of researchers. _____________________ Today’s On Politics briefing was compiled by Isabella Grullón Paz in New York. Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.

Supported by Good Thursday morning. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today. _____________________ • After almost two years of subpoenas, indictments and search warrants, the results of Robert Mueller’s investigation will be made public today. The partially redacted report will tell us a lot about Russia’s 2016 election interference, possible contacts between Moscow and the Trump campaign and the still-contested issue of presidential obstruction. Here’s a full guide to what to expect. • Some of the report’s findings will not be news to President Trump. Justice Department officials have had numerous conversations with White House lawyers about the special counsel’s conclusions, which has aided the president’s legal team in preparing a rebuttal. • Julián Castro, the former housing secretary and San Antonio mayor, brings youth and diversity to the Democratic presidential field. But, overshadowed by some peers, he has failed to get traction in early polls. • There’s an unlikely new hot spot for Democratic candidates: Fox News. A network known for conservative commentary and staunch loyalty to the president is drawing Democratic candidates eager for a big platform with access to Trump voters. • Former Gov. Terry McAuliffe of Virginia, a prominent political fund-raiser and close friend of the Clintons, announced that he would not run for president in 2020. • The attorney general issued an order on Tuesday that could keep thousands of asylum-seeking migrants in jail while they wait for their requests to be evaluated by a judge. But what is asylum, and who can seek it? Here’s an explainer on the new restrictions. • Supporters of a new tax incentive meant to increase investment in struggling communities are worried that proposed regulations could steer money into real estate development instead of start-up businesses, which are more likely to create well-paying, long-term jobs. • The Democrats on the Federal Trade Commission want to penalize companies that falsely market products as American-made, while the Republicans don’t. Strangely, that seems to put the Democrats more in line with Mr. Trump. • There’s been a recent surge in state and private funding for gun research, as a result of high-profile mass shootings and donations from billionaires aimed at lifting academic studies and funding a new generation of researchers. _____________________ Today’s On Politics briefing was compiled by Isabella Grullón Paz in New York. Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.Supported by SUNDAY BUSINESS The Like a Boss column last Sunday about Robin Arzón, the vice president for fitness programming at Peloton, misspelled the surname of a television producer and writer. She is Shonda Rhimes, not Rimes. ARTS & LEISURE  An item in the Week Ahead column last Sunday misstated the location of the opening of the film “Peterloo.” It was New York and Los Angeles, not New York and London. BOOK REVIEW The New & Noteworthy column on March 3 referred incorrectly to Ross Gay’s poetry collection “Catalog of Unabashed Gratitude.” It is his third book, not his first. TRAVEL An article on March 17 about Lawrence Ferlinghetti’s San Francisco misstated the connection between Hotel Union Square and the writer Dashiell Hammett. Hammett lived and wrote in San Francisco; he did not write his novels in the hotel. • The 36 Hours column last Sunday, about Rio de Janeiro, included an outdated reference to the owner of the Bip-bip bar, Alfredo Jacinto Melo, known as Alfredinho. Mr. Melo died last month. SUNDAY REVIEW Frank Bruni’s column last Sunday misstated the age of the comedian Sandra Bernhard. She is 63, not 65. MAGAZINE The cover article this weekend about Rupert Murdoch’s media empire describes incorrectly the Fox News host Greta Van Susteren’s departure from the Fox network. Ms. Van Susteren was preparing to leave when Mr. Murdoch canceled her show; she was not fired. And the article misstates the given name of a media analyst. She is Claire Enders, not Alice. The article also describes incorrectly the islands of Nauru and Manus. Nauru is an independent nation, and Manus is part of Papua New Guinea. Neither is part of Australia. • An article on March 24 about the travel expert Rick Steves misstated the size of a bus he used in his early tours through Europe. It was a nine-seat minibus, not a nine-foot minibus. CROSSWORD Because of a production error, this weekend’s KenKen puzzle is a duplicate of the March 31 puzzle. New KenKen puzzles will resume in the April 14 issue. Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions. To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com or call 1-844-NYT-NEWS (1-844-698-6397). Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com or faxed to (212) 556-3622. For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.

Supported by SUNDAY BUSINESS The Like a Boss column last Sunday about Robin Arzón, the vice president for fitness programming at Peloton, misspelled the surname of a television producer and writer. She is Shonda Rhimes, not Rimes. ARTS & LEISURE  An item in the Week Ahead column last Sunday misstated the location of the opening of the film “Peterloo.” It was New York and Los Angeles, not New York and London. BOOK REVIEW The New & Noteworthy column on March 3 referred incorrectly to Ross Gay’s poetry collection “Catalog of Unabashed Gratitude.” It is his third book, not his first. TRAVEL An article on March 17 about Lawrence Ferlinghetti’s San Francisco misstated the connection between Hotel Union Square and the writer Dashiell Hammett. Hammett lived and wrote in San Francisco; he did not write his novels in the hotel. • The 36 Hours column last Sunday, about Rio de Janeiro, included an outdated reference to the owner of the Bip-bip bar, Alfredo Jacinto Melo, known as Alfredinho. Mr. Melo died last month. SUNDAY REVIEW Frank Bruni’s column last Sunday misstated the age of the comedian Sandra Bernhard. She is 63, not 65. MAGAZINE The cover article this weekend about Rupert Murdoch’s media empire describes incorrectly the Fox News host Greta Van Susteren’s departure from the Fox network. Ms. Van Susteren was preparing to leave when Mr. Murdoch canceled her show; she was not fired. And the article misstates the given name of a media analyst. She is Claire Enders, not Alice. The article also describes incorrectly the islands of Nauru and Manus. Nauru is an independent nation, and Manus is part of Papua New Guinea. Neither is part of Australia. • An article on March 24 about the travel expert Rick Steves misstated the size of a bus he used in his early tours through Europe. It was a nine-seat minibus, not a nine-foot minibus. CROSSWORD Because of a production error, this weekend’s KenKen puzzle is a duplicate of the March 31 puzzle. New KenKen puzzles will resume in the April 14 issue. Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions. To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com or call 1-844-NYT-NEWS (1-844-698-6397). Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com or faxed to (212) 556-3622. For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.Supported by Mitch McConnell’s show vote in the Senate on Tuesday rejected the plan, but Republicans may come to regret their mockery. By Sean McElwee Mr. McElwee is one of the founders of Data for Progress. Mitch McConnell, the Senate majority leader, brought the Green New Deal to a vote in the Senate on Tuesday. He defeated consideration of the plan 57-0, winning over three Democratic senators and one independent who caucuses with the Democrats. The rest of the Democratic caucus voted “present,” in an attempt to confound Mr. McConnell’s strategy, which was to tie down the Democratic Party to an ambitious proposal from its progressive wing. In his mind, this would clearly hurt the Democrats. President Trump thinks so too. “You look at this Green New Deal — it’s the most preposterous thing,” he told Fox Business last week “Now I don’t want to knock it too much right now because I really hope they keep going forward with it, frankly, because I think it’s going to be very easy to beat.” But is the Green New Deal really that toxic? My research suggests it’s not. To begin with, the idea of a Green New Deal did not come out of nowhere. For the past several years, environmental, labor and racial justice organizations have been working toward a new framework for climate policies aimed at ensuring that these policies address the needs of front-line communities, while ensuring that workers in fossil fuel industries still have economic opportunities. In Buffalo, local groups organized to keep the closure of a fossil fuel plant from harming the local economy. In California, groups pushed through SB 535, which dedicates funding from the state’s cap-and-trade program to low-income communities disproportionately affected by climate change. In New York, the Climate and Community Protection Act, a law that mandates emissions reductions and investments in affected communities is the product of a multiyear effort. These achievements all predate the Green New Deal, but they are rooted in a similar goal: to fight for clean air, clean water, decarbonization, racial justice and good jobs at the same time. One advantage of the Green New Deal framework is that it combines immediate concerns about pollution with more abstract discussions about carbon emissions. There are immense political benefits to this approach. Consider West Virginia, where the Republican establishment ran ads criticizing the coal baron Don Blankenship for contaminating local water. Pause for a moment: Among the most conservative voters in one of the most conservative states in the country, the winning message was clean water. My think tank, Data for Progress, commissioned a series of polls on the Green New Deal. Though Data for Progress is a liberal organization that is supportive of the Green New Deal, we don’t let that cloud our polling. We want accurate results, not convenient ones. (Our surveys show lower support for “Medicare for all” than those of most other organizations, for example.) We are also involved in the process: Last September, Data for Progress released a blueprint for the Green New Deal that has informed policy development. To get accurate results, we deploy several techniques. First, in our latest polling with Civis Analytics, a data science firm founded by alumni of the Obama campaign, we informed respondents that the Green New Deal is a Democratic proposal. Voters were told that the Green New Deal would “phase out the use of fossil fuels, with the government providing clean energy jobs for people who can’t find employment in the private sector. All jobs would pay at least $15 an hour, include health care benefits and collective bargaining rights.” Many commentators have argued that the Green New Deal would become unpopular when voters were informed of the cost, so we added that the plan would “be paid for by raising taxes on incomes over $200,000 dollars a year by 15 percentage points.” In addition, we provided arguments for and against the policy: “Democrats say this would improve the economy by giving people jobs, fight climate change and reduce pollution in the air and water. Republicans say this would cost many jobs in the energy sector, hurt the economy by raising taxes, and wouldn’t make much of a difference because of carbon emissions from China.” What we found suggests very little reason for Democrats to worry about backlash: Forty-six percent of likely voters supported the policy and 34 percent opposed it. (The rest were unsure.) Obama-Trump voters narrowly favored the policy (45 percent in support and 39 percent opposed), and moderates supported it 44 percent to 27 percent. Civis Analytics modeled two-way (that is, they excluded “don’t knows”) support in states and found that vulnerable Republican senators have reason to fear Mr. McConnell’s antics: In Colorado, Cory Gardner’s state, 60 percent of likely voters supported the Green New Deal, and in North Carolina, Thom Tillis’s state, 56 percent did. In Maine, where Susan Collins is likely to face a tough re-election battle, 57 percent of likely voters supported the Green New Deal and in Iowa, a wind-heavy state where Democrats hope to pick up a Senate seat, 54 percent did. We also asked YouGov Blue to survey the Green New Deal. Our YouGov survey asked, “Would you support or oppose a Green New Deal to end fossil fuel use in the United States and have the government create clean energy jobs? The plan would be paid for by raising taxes, including a tax on carbon emissions.” With this framing, 43 percent of registered voters expressed support, with 38 percent opposed and the rest unsure. Not all parts of the Green New Deal are popular. In our polling with Civis, a full shift to electric cars by 2030 and the phasing out of all power plants by 2035 were both underwater. And there is no doubt that some additional parts will lose support after facing a right-wing onslaught. On the other hand, policies like green jobs, drinking water infrastructure and reforestation were wildly popular. Clean water had net support in every state in the country, and reforestation is underwater in Wyoming only. In other words, there is no part in the country where at least some aspects of the Green New Deal will not be winning issues. New polling from 350 Action and Data for Progress conducted by YouGov Blue shows that rejecting fossil fuel money is popular (49 percent support their representatives refusing campaign contributions from fossil fuel PACs, with 19 percent opposed and the rest unsure). A “keep it in the ground” approach to energy policy that would phase out fossil fuel infrastructure in favor of renewable alternatives garnered even more support (56 percent in support, 26 percent opposed). “Climate policy might befuddle Democratic leadership, but the grass roots knows what’s up,” Julian Brave Noisecat, a policy analyst for 350 Action, told me. The core challenge the Green New Deal faces is not so much on the merits of the concept or even its political feasibility; it is that many of its Democratic supporters have met an aggressive and one-sided onslaught from the right with very little by way of response. According to data shared with The Times from Navigator, a progressive polling project, 37 percent of Republican viewers of Fox News had heard “a lot” about the Green New Deal, compared with 14 percent of all registered voters. Only 6 percent of non-Republican, non-Fox viewers had heard “a lot” about the Green New Deal, and 40 percent had heard nothing at all (compared with 14 percent of Republican viewers of Fox News). Across all registered voters who had heard about the Green New Deal, 32 percent reported seeing mostly negative coverage, 12 percent mostly positive, 42 percent a mix and the rest couldn’t recall. (Among Fox-viewing Republicans, it’s 68 percent, 4 percent, 24 percent and 4 percent.) We’re seeing in real time the impact of right-wing attacks. When asked simply, “Based on what you know, do you support or oppose the Green New Deal?,” 22 percent of respondents are in support, 29 percent are opposed and 49 percent are not sure. But 74 percent of Fox-viewing Republicans oppose the Green New Deal (65 percent strongly), and only 21 percent have not formed an opinion. Among people who are not Republicans and not Fox viewers, 32 percent support the Green New Deal, 8 percent oppose it and a whopping 61 percent have not formed an opinion. (Navigator polling shows that Fox News viewers are also far more likely to deny climate change.)  Though many components of the Green New Deal are popular, the Republican propaganda machine has already reshaped the narrative, and it has done so with virtually no coordinated pushback from progressives, or certainly nowhere near enough, a worrying pattern. Tuesday’s Senate vote, where Democrats were urged by their leaders to take no stance at all and vote present, however expedient, is indicative of the broader trend — a defensive crouch from Democrats in response to an onslaught from the right. The Green New Deal is the future of the Democratic Party: Among likely Democratic primary voters in our Civis polling, 71 percent supported the Green New Deal and 14 percent opposed it. Democrats should not be afraid to embrace it, and Republicans who mess with it — despite the temporary success of their aggressive tactics — will do so at their own risk.  Sean McElwee (@SeanMcElwee) is one of the founder of Data for Progress. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported by Mitch McConnell’s show vote in the Senate on Tuesday rejected the plan, but Republicans may come to regret their mockery. By Sean McElwee Mr. McElwee is one of the founders of Data for Progress. Mitch McConnell, the Senate majority leader, brought the Green New Deal to a vote in the Senate on Tuesday. He defeated consideration of the plan 57-0, winning over three Democratic senators and one independent who caucuses with the Democrats. The rest of the Democratic caucus voted “present,” in an attempt to confound Mr. McConnell’s strategy, which was to tie down the Democratic Party to an ambitious proposal from its progressive wing. In his mind, this would clearly hurt the Democrats. President Trump thinks so too. “You look at this Green New Deal — it’s the most preposterous thing,” he told Fox Business last week “Now I don’t want to knock it too much right now because I really hope they keep going forward with it, frankly, because I think it’s going to be very easy to beat.” But is the Green New Deal really that toxic? My research suggests it’s not. To begin with, the idea of a Green New Deal did not come out of nowhere. For the past several years, environmental, labor and racial justice organizations have been working toward a new framework for climate policies aimed at ensuring that these policies address the needs of front-line communities, while ensuring that workers in fossil fuel industries still have economic opportunities. In Buffalo, local groups organized to keep the closure of a fossil fuel plant from harming the local economy. In California, groups pushed through SB 535, which dedicates funding from the state’s cap-and-trade program to low-income communities disproportionately affected by climate change. In New York, the Climate and Community Protection Act, a law that mandates emissions reductions and investments in affected communities is the product of a multiyear effort. These achievements all predate the Green New Deal, but they are rooted in a similar goal: to fight for clean air, clean water, decarbonization, racial justice and good jobs at the same time. One advantage of the Green New Deal framework is that it combines immediate concerns about pollution with more abstract discussions about carbon emissions. There are immense political benefits to this approach. Consider West Virginia, where the Republican establishment ran ads criticizing the coal baron Don Blankenship for contaminating local water. Pause for a moment: Among the most conservative voters in one of the most conservative states in the country, the winning message was clean water. My think tank, Data for Progress, commissioned a series of polls on the Green New Deal. Though Data for Progress is a liberal organization that is supportive of the Green New Deal, we don’t let that cloud our polling. We want accurate results, not convenient ones. (Our surveys show lower support for “Medicare for all” than those of most other organizations, for example.) We are also involved in the process: Last September, Data for Progress released a blueprint for the Green New Deal that has informed policy development. To get accurate results, we deploy several techniques. First, in our latest polling with Civis Analytics, a data science firm founded by alumni of the Obama campaign, we informed respondents that the Green New Deal is a Democratic proposal. Voters were told that the Green New Deal would “phase out the use of fossil fuels, with the government providing clean energy jobs for people who can’t find employment in the private sector. All jobs would pay at least $15 an hour, include health care benefits and collective bargaining rights.” Many commentators have argued that the Green New Deal would become unpopular when voters were informed of the cost, so we added that the plan would “be paid for by raising taxes on incomes over $200,000 dollars a year by 15 percentage points.” In addition, we provided arguments for and against the policy: “Democrats say this would improve the economy by giving people jobs, fight climate change and reduce pollution in the air and water. Republicans say this would cost many jobs in the energy sector, hurt the economy by raising taxes, and wouldn’t make much of a difference because of carbon emissions from China.” What we found suggests very little reason for Democrats to worry about backlash: Forty-six percent of likely voters supported the policy and 34 percent opposed it. (The rest were unsure.) Obama-Trump voters narrowly favored the policy (45 percent in support and 39 percent opposed), and moderates supported it 44 percent to 27 percent. Civis Analytics modeled two-way (that is, they excluded “don’t knows”) support in states and found that vulnerable Republican senators have reason to fear Mr. McConnell’s antics: In Colorado, Cory Gardner’s state, 60 percent of likely voters supported the Green New Deal, and in North Carolina, Thom Tillis’s state, 56 percent did. In Maine, where Susan Collins is likely to face a tough re-election battle, 57 percent of likely voters supported the Green New Deal and in Iowa, a wind-heavy state where Democrats hope to pick up a Senate seat, 54 percent did. We also asked YouGov Blue to survey the Green New Deal. Our YouGov survey asked, “Would you support or oppose a Green New Deal to end fossil fuel use in the United States and have the government create clean energy jobs? The plan would be paid for by raising taxes, including a tax on carbon emissions.” With this framing, 43 percent of registered voters expressed support, with 38 percent opposed and the rest unsure. Not all parts of the Green New Deal are popular. In our polling with Civis, a full shift to electric cars by 2030 and the phasing out of all power plants by 2035 were both underwater. And there is no doubt that some additional parts will lose support after facing a right-wing onslaught. On the other hand, policies like green jobs, drinking water infrastructure and reforestation were wildly popular. Clean water had net support in every state in the country, and reforestation is underwater in Wyoming only. In other words, there is no part in the country where at least some aspects of the Green New Deal will not be winning issues. New polling from 350 Action and Data for Progress conducted by YouGov Blue shows that rejecting fossil fuel money is popular (49 percent support their representatives refusing campaign contributions from fossil fuel PACs, with 19 percent opposed and the rest unsure). A “keep it in the ground” approach to energy policy that would phase out fossil fuel infrastructure in favor of renewable alternatives garnered even more support (56 percent in support, 26 percent opposed). “Climate policy might befuddle Democratic leadership, but the grass roots knows what’s up,” Julian Brave Noisecat, a policy analyst for 350 Action, told me. The core challenge the Green New Deal faces is not so much on the merits of the concept or even its political feasibility; it is that many of its Democratic supporters have met an aggressive and one-sided onslaught from the right with very little by way of response. According to data shared with The Times from Navigator, a progressive polling project, 37 percent of Republican viewers of Fox News had heard “a lot” about the Green New Deal, compared with 14 percent of all registered voters. Only 6 percent of non-Republican, non-Fox viewers had heard “a lot” about the Green New Deal, and 40 percent had heard nothing at all (compared with 14 percent of Republican viewers of Fox News). Across all registered voters who had heard about the Green New Deal, 32 percent reported seeing mostly negative coverage, 12 percent mostly positive, 42 percent a mix and the rest couldn’t recall. (Among Fox-viewing Republicans, it’s 68 percent, 4 percent, 24 percent and 4 percent.) We’re seeing in real time the impact of right-wing attacks. When asked simply, “Based on what you know, do you support or oppose the Green New Deal?,” 22 percent of respondents are in support, 29 percent are opposed and 49 percent are not sure. But 74 percent of Fox-viewing Republicans oppose the Green New Deal (65 percent strongly), and only 21 percent have not formed an opinion. Among people who are not Republicans and not Fox viewers, 32 percent support the Green New Deal, 8 percent oppose it and a whopping 61 percent have not formed an opinion. (Navigator polling shows that Fox News viewers are also far more likely to deny climate change.)  Though many components of the Green New Deal are popular, the Republican propaganda machine has already reshaped the narrative, and it has done so with virtually no coordinated pushback from progressives, or certainly nowhere near enough, a worrying pattern. Tuesday’s Senate vote, where Democrats were urged by their leaders to take no stance at all and vote present, however expedient, is indicative of the broader trend — a defensive crouch from Democrats in response to an onslaught from the right. The Green New Deal is the future of the Democratic Party: Among likely Democratic primary voters in our Civis polling, 71 percent supported the Green New Deal and 14 percent opposed it. Democrats should not be afraid to embrace it, and Republicans who mess with it — despite the temporary success of their aggressive tactics — will do so at their own risk.  Sean McElwee (@SeanMcElwee) is one of the founder of Data for Progress. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Supported by By Edmund Lee President Trump reeled off a list of his favorite media personalities on Friday when asked who might have influenced his decision to declare a national emergency after Congress refused to give him money for a border wall. Sean Hannity, Rush Limbaugh, Tucker Carlson and Laura Ingraham — a powerful bloc of conservative voices who have railed against any budget compromise on wall funding — all received shout-outs in a Rose Garden news conference. “Sean Hannity has been a terrific, terrific supporter of what I do,” Mr. Trump said of the Fox News commentator. He praised Mr. Limbaugh for his ability to command an audience. “He can speak for three hours without a phone call,” Mr. Trump said. “Try doing that sometime. For three hours he speaks. He’s got one of the biggest audiences in the history of the world. I mean, this guy is unbelievable.” The president added that none of the favorites he mentioned, most of whom work for Fox News, drove his decisions: “They don’t decide policy,” he said. The question that got Mr. Trump to discuss his cable and radio cheering squad came from the NBC News reporter Kelly O’Donnell. It seemed apt after what had occurred in December, when the presidency seemed perhaps more entwined than usual with prominent figures in conservative media. At the time, Mr. Trump appeared willing to sign a continuing resolution to prevent a government shutdown, even without money for the wall. Then a few of his most influential supporters, including Mr. Hannity and Mr. Limbaugh, lasered in on the lack of wall funding and pleaded with Mr. Trump to refuse to sign the bill. He did exactly that, leading to a 35-day shutdown, the longest in the government’s history. This week, as the deadline on the temporary spending measure that ended the shutdown loomed, the president was willing to go ahead with a newly proposed budget, even though it had less money for a border wall than was on the table at one point last year. In contrast to December, Mr. Trump reached out to a synod of conservative commentators in an effort to assuage their concerns. His administration talked with Mr. Hannity and Lou Dobbs, the Fox Business Network host. The purpose was to politick the right-wing media with the message that Mr. Trump deserved support for the new bill because he had forced concessions. Here’s how President Trump’s border wall fits on the list of emergency declarations. He also would declare a national emergency as a way to get around Congress and provide dollars for the wall, a move conservatives championed. “We’re going to confront the national security crisis on our southern border, and we’re going to do it one way or the other,” Mr. Trump said in the Rose Garden. “It’s an invasion. We have an invasion of drugs and criminals coming into our country.” But not everyone in the right-wing punditocracy endorsed Mr. Trump. Ann Coulter, who was an early supporter of the president, has now become a thorn in his side. In December, she published a blistering column on her website calling Mr. Trump a “gigantic douchebag” for not having made headway on a border wall. This week, as many anticipated Mr. Trump’s willingness to approve the spending bill, she didn’t let up, saying on Twitter that the goal of the national emergency “is for Trump to scam the stupidest people in his base for 2 more years.” The president spoke of Ms. Coulter on Friday, but not in the most glowing terms. “I don’t know her,” the president said Friday. "I haven’t spoken to her in way over a year. But the press loves saying ‘Ann Coulter.’” He continued: “I have nothing against her. In fact, I like her for one reason. When they asked her, right at the beginning, who is going to win the election? She said, ‘Donald Trump.’ And the two people that asked her that question smiled. They said, ‘You’re kidding, aren’t you?’ ‘Nope, Donald Trump.’ So I like her.” A few seconds later, he added, “But she’s off the reservation, but anybody who knows her understands that.” After the news conference, Ms. Coulter tweeted: “He seems to think ‘the reservation’ is HIM, not his campaign promises.” Three minutes later, she posted another, this time about the constitutional provision allowing for the removal of a president from office: “No. 1 trending topic on Twitter: 25th Amendment.” Mr. Trump also cued up one of his old anti-press hits during the news conference. When Jim Acosta, the CNN reporter whose White House credentials he suspended late last year, asked about “critics who say you’re creating a national emergency in order to get your wall,” the president was ready. “Your question is a very political question, because you have an agenda,” he said. “You’re CNN. You’re fake news.”  OpinionThe Editorial Board

Supported by By Edmund Lee President Trump reeled off a list of his favorite media personalities on Friday when asked who might have influenced his decision to declare a national emergency after Congress refused to give him money for a border wall. Sean Hannity, Rush Limbaugh, Tucker Carlson and Laura Ingraham — a powerful bloc of conservative voices who have railed against any budget compromise on wall funding — all received shout-outs in a Rose Garden news conference. “Sean Hannity has been a terrific, terrific supporter of what I do,” Mr. Trump said of the Fox News commentator. He praised Mr. Limbaugh for his ability to command an audience. “He can speak for three hours without a phone call,” Mr. Trump said. “Try doing that sometime. For three hours he speaks. He’s got one of the biggest audiences in the history of the world. I mean, this guy is unbelievable.” The president added that none of the favorites he mentioned, most of whom work for Fox News, drove his decisions: “They don’t decide policy,” he said. The question that got Mr. Trump to discuss his cable and radio cheering squad came from the NBC News reporter Kelly O’Donnell. It seemed apt after what had occurred in December, when the presidency seemed perhaps more entwined than usual with prominent figures in conservative media. At the time, Mr. Trump appeared willing to sign a continuing resolution to prevent a government shutdown, even without money for the wall. Then a few of his most influential supporters, including Mr. Hannity and Mr. Limbaugh, lasered in on the lack of wall funding and pleaded with Mr. Trump to refuse to sign the bill. He did exactly that, leading to a 35-day shutdown, the longest in the government’s history. This week, as the deadline on the temporary spending measure that ended the shutdown loomed, the president was willing to go ahead with a newly proposed budget, even though it had less money for a border wall than was on the table at one point last year. In contrast to December, Mr. Trump reached out to a synod of conservative commentators in an effort to assuage their concerns. His administration talked with Mr. Hannity and Lou Dobbs, the Fox Business Network host. The purpose was to politick the right-wing media with the message that Mr. Trump deserved support for the new bill because he had forced concessions. Here’s how President Trump’s border wall fits on the list of emergency declarations. He also would declare a national emergency as a way to get around Congress and provide dollars for the wall, a move conservatives championed. “We’re going to confront the national security crisis on our southern border, and we’re going to do it one way or the other,” Mr. Trump said in the Rose Garden. “It’s an invasion. We have an invasion of drugs and criminals coming into our country.” But not everyone in the right-wing punditocracy endorsed Mr. Trump. Ann Coulter, who was an early supporter of the president, has now become a thorn in his side. In December, she published a blistering column on her website calling Mr. Trump a “gigantic douchebag” for not having made headway on a border wall. This week, as many anticipated Mr. Trump’s willingness to approve the spending bill, she didn’t let up, saying on Twitter that the goal of the national emergency “is for Trump to scam the stupidest people in his base for 2 more years.” The president spoke of Ms. Coulter on Friday, but not in the most glowing terms. “I don’t know her,” the president said Friday. "I haven’t spoken to her in way over a year. But the press loves saying ‘Ann Coulter.’” He continued: “I have nothing against her. In fact, I like her for one reason. When they asked her, right at the beginning, who is going to win the election? She said, ‘Donald Trump.’ And the two people that asked her that question smiled. They said, ‘You’re kidding, aren’t you?’ ‘Nope, Donald Trump.’ So I like her.” A few seconds later, he added, “But she’s off the reservation, but anybody who knows her understands that.” After the news conference, Ms. Coulter tweeted: “He seems to think ‘the reservation’ is HIM, not his campaign promises.” Three minutes later, she posted another, this time about the constitutional provision allowing for the removal of a president from office: “No. 1 trending topic on Twitter: 25th Amendment.” Mr. Trump also cued up one of his old anti-press hits during the news conference. When Jim Acosta, the CNN reporter whose White House credentials he suspended late last year, asked about “critics who say you’re creating a national emergency in order to get your wall,” the president was ready. “Your question is a very political question, because you have an agenda,” he said. “You’re CNN. You’re fake news.”  OpinionThe Editorial BoardSupported by American democracy is too resilient for Trump to destroy. By Nicholas Kristof Opinion Columnist In his testimony before Congress last week, Michael Cohen in effect warned of a coup: “Given my experience working for Mr. Trump, I fear that if he loses the election in 2020 that there will never be a peaceful transition of power,” Cohen said. That fit neatly into the concern in some liberal circles that President Trump may not simply undermine democracy but actually overturn it. References to the Nazi takeover of Germany have proliferated, and cautionary tales about fascism are now ubiquitous, including Madeleine Albright’s “Fascism: A Warning.” The polarization also leads Trump supporters to worry about a coup — by the “deep state” against Trump — and some make glib references about resorting to violence. “We are in a civil war in this country,” Joseph diGenova, a prominent conservative commentator on Fox News and other programs, told Laura Ingraham in her podcast. He added, “As I say to my friends, I do two things — I vote and I buy guns.” Let’s all take a deep breath. [Follow Nicholas Kristof as he travels around the United States and the world, shedding light on crises and hailing unsung heroes. For a behind-the-scenes look at Nick’s gritty journalism, sign up for his newsletter.] I think Representative Adam Schiff, the California Democrat who leads the House Intelligence Committee, has a point when he says: “This is a moment of great peril for our democracy.” But just past the midpoint of the Trump presidency (I hope!), it’s worth examining how the country has weathered the challenge — and my take-away is that American institutions and norms have shown impressive strength and resilience. One of the most troubling elements of Trump’s presidency has been his systematic assault on our institutions: the F.B.I., the Justice Department, the intelligence community, the news media, the courts. Yet for the most part, they have stood up to his bullying. To take one example, Jane Mayer of The New Yorker reports that Trump in 2017 told aides to block a merger between AT&T and Time Warner, apparently to punish CNN (a unit of Time Warner) for its news coverage while helping Fox News. This was utterly inappropriate, so aides ignored him. “I’ve mentioned it 50 times,” Trump raged, according to Mayer’s account. “And nothing’s happened.” The Justice Department did in fact bring suit to block the merger, but courts foiled Trump and allowed it to go ahead. Likewise, Trump’s efforts to block meaningful investigations into his conduct have backfired, leading to the Robert Mueller inquiry and to congressional inquiries of obstruction of justice. His dangling of federal pardons before former associates encouraged state investigations. He has personally genuflected before Vladimir Putin, but his administration policy on Russia has ended up rather tougher. And his rogue behavior helped Democrats seize the House of Representatives. Trump has regularly demonized journalists as “enemies of the people,” but reporters have not been intimidated. As I’ve often written, I thought we in the news media did not do well during the 2016 campaign, but the competition today between The Washington Post and The New York Times is the best kind of newspaper war, keeping America straight. Gallup finds that public approval of newspapers, while still low, is up a little  since 2016 even as Trump has excoriated them. The best book warning of authoritarianism is, for my money, “How Democracies Die,” by Steven Levitsky and Daniel Ziblatt, both professors of government at Harvard. It’s a brilliant book, wise and nuanced, so I reached out to the authors and asked how they think the U.S. has done so far in the Trump presidency. “The U.S. is not 1930s Germany or contemporary Hungary, Venezuela, or Turkey,” Levitsky told me. “The U.S. has much stronger democratic institutions than these countries, and it has a much stronger opposition. So whereas in Hungary and Venezuela autocrats steamrolled weak oppositions, Trump faced pushback on multiple fronts, including, very importantly, the electoral front in November 2018. So, yes, U.S. democracy is hard to kill.” Still, Levitsky and Ziblatt caution that an underlying polarization and erosion of norms made Trump’s election possible, and they persist. Moreover, while the Democratic victory in the House is good news for accountability, it also results in a divided government that can’t get anything done. “U.S. democracy is sliding into dysfunction,” Levitsky said, noting that this can increase the appeal of other demagogues. Republican leaders like Mitch McConnell have also refused to stand up to Trump and have allowed certain authoritarian values to infect a wing of the party. Almost a quarter of Republicans said in a poll last year that “President Trump should close down mainstream news outlets, like CNN, The Washington Post and The New York Times.” So there’s plenty to worry about, but let’s acknowledge that the American system so far has shown itself resilient. In my more hopeful moments, I think that we are seeing a backlash to Trumpian authoritarianism that may ultimately strengthen the rule of law, as happened after Watergate. For those still wringing their hands and unconvinced, here’s my bottom-line reassurance: Trump won’t manage a coup, and he seems to me more likely to end up a felon than a president for life. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Nicholas Kristof has been a columnist for The Times since 2001. He has won two Pulitzer Prizes, for his coverage of China and of the genocide in Darfur. You can sign up for his free, twice-weekly email newsletter and follow him on Instagram.  @NickKristof • Facebook 

Supported by American democracy is too resilient for Trump to destroy. By Nicholas Kristof Opinion Columnist In his testimony before Congress last week, Michael Cohen in effect warned of a coup: “Given my experience working for Mr. Trump, I fear that if he loses the election in 2020 that there will never be a peaceful transition of power,” Cohen said. That fit neatly into the concern in some liberal circles that President Trump may not simply undermine democracy but actually overturn it. References to the Nazi takeover of Germany have proliferated, and cautionary tales about fascism are now ubiquitous, including Madeleine Albright’s “Fascism: A Warning.” The polarization also leads Trump supporters to worry about a coup — by the “deep state” against Trump — and some make glib references about resorting to violence. “We are in a civil war in this country,” Joseph diGenova, a prominent conservative commentator on Fox News and other programs, told Laura Ingraham in her podcast. He added, “As I say to my friends, I do two things — I vote and I buy guns.” Let’s all take a deep breath. [Follow Nicholas Kristof as he travels around the United States and the world, shedding light on crises and hailing unsung heroes. For a behind-the-scenes look at Nick’s gritty journalism, sign up for his newsletter.] I think Representative Adam Schiff, the California Democrat who leads the House Intelligence Committee, has a point when he says: “This is a moment of great peril for our democracy.” But just past the midpoint of the Trump presidency (I hope!), it’s worth examining how the country has weathered the challenge — and my take-away is that American institutions and norms have shown impressive strength and resilience. One of the most troubling elements of Trump’s presidency has been his systematic assault on our institutions: the F.B.I., the Justice Department, the intelligence community, the news media, the courts. Yet for the most part, they have stood up to his bullying. To take one example, Jane Mayer of The New Yorker reports that Trump in 2017 told aides to block a merger between AT&T and Time Warner, apparently to punish CNN (a unit of Time Warner) for its news coverage while helping Fox News. This was utterly inappropriate, so aides ignored him. “I’ve mentioned it 50 times,” Trump raged, according to Mayer’s account. “And nothing’s happened.” The Justice Department did in fact bring suit to block the merger, but courts foiled Trump and allowed it to go ahead. Likewise, Trump’s efforts to block meaningful investigations into his conduct have backfired, leading to the Robert Mueller inquiry and to congressional inquiries of obstruction of justice. His dangling of federal pardons before former associates encouraged state investigations. He has personally genuflected before Vladimir Putin, but his administration policy on Russia has ended up rather tougher. And his rogue behavior helped Democrats seize the House of Representatives. Trump has regularly demonized journalists as “enemies of the people,” but reporters have not been intimidated. As I’ve often written, I thought we in the news media did not do well during the 2016 campaign, but the competition today between The Washington Post and The New York Times is the best kind of newspaper war, keeping America straight. Gallup finds that public approval of newspapers, while still low, is up a little  since 2016 even as Trump has excoriated them. The best book warning of authoritarianism is, for my money, “How Democracies Die,” by Steven Levitsky and Daniel Ziblatt, both professors of government at Harvard. It’s a brilliant book, wise and nuanced, so I reached out to the authors and asked how they think the U.S. has done so far in the Trump presidency. “The U.S. is not 1930s Germany or contemporary Hungary, Venezuela, or Turkey,” Levitsky told me. “The U.S. has much stronger democratic institutions than these countries, and it has a much stronger opposition. So whereas in Hungary and Venezuela autocrats steamrolled weak oppositions, Trump faced pushback on multiple fronts, including, very importantly, the electoral front in November 2018. So, yes, U.S. democracy is hard to kill.” Still, Levitsky and Ziblatt caution that an underlying polarization and erosion of norms made Trump’s election possible, and they persist. Moreover, while the Democratic victory in the House is good news for accountability, it also results in a divided government that can’t get anything done. “U.S. democracy is sliding into dysfunction,” Levitsky said, noting that this can increase the appeal of other demagogues. Republican leaders like Mitch McConnell have also refused to stand up to Trump and have allowed certain authoritarian values to infect a wing of the party. Almost a quarter of Republicans said in a poll last year that “President Trump should close down mainstream news outlets, like CNN, The Washington Post and The New York Times.” So there’s plenty to worry about, but let’s acknowledge that the American system so far has shown itself resilient. In my more hopeful moments, I think that we are seeing a backlash to Trumpian authoritarianism that may ultimately strengthen the rule of law, as happened after Watergate. For those still wringing their hands and unconvinced, here’s my bottom-line reassurance: Trump won’t manage a coup, and he seems to me more likely to end up a felon than a president for life. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Nicholas Kristof has been a columnist for The Times since 2001. He has won two Pulitzer Prizes, for his coverage of China and of the genocide in Darfur. You can sign up for his free, twice-weekly email newsletter and follow him on Instagram.  @NickKristof • Facebook Supported by By Michael Tackett WASHINGTON — Tucked between St. Patrick’s Day greetings and repeat criticism of a rerun of “Saturday Night Live,” President Trump demonstrated that not even death provides a respite from his wrath on Twitter. In posts on Saturday and Sunday, Mr. Trump renewed his criticism of Senator John McCain, the Arizona Republican who died in August from complications from a virulent form of brain cancer. The president attacked Mr. McCain over his role in the Justice Department investigation into Russian efforts to influence the 2016 presidential election. He then added that Mr. McCain “had far worse ‘stains’ ” on his record, including the senator’s decisive vote against repealing the Affordable Care Act. “Spreading the fake and totally discredited Dossier ‘is unfortunately a very dark stain against John McCain,’” he tweeted on Saturday, quoting comments in a Fox News interview by the former independent counsel Ken Starr about the so-called Steele Dossier, which outlined a range of often salacious but unproven misdeeds by Mr. Trump and his associates. “So it was indeed (just proven in court papers) ‘last in his class’ (Annapolis) John McCain that sent the Fake Dossier to the FBI and Media hoping to have it printed BEFORE the Election,” he wrote on Sunday. “He & the Dems, working together, failed (as usual). Even the Fake News refused this garbage!” In fact, Mr. McCain provided a copy of the dossier to the F.B.I. after Election Day. But supporters of Mr. Trump have seized on the dossier’s uncorroborated accusations and political roots in the campaign as a way to try to discredit the special counsel’s Russia inquiry. The comments exemplified Mr. Trump’s model for presidential communication, both in form and tone, exploiting the power and urgency of social media, often with harsh and bitterly personal attacks. But they also sparked swift condemnation, showing that the president abandons conventional boundaries of civility like not speaking ill of the dead at his peril. “There’s no low with him,” John Weaver, who was a political adviser to Mr. McCain, said in an interview. “There’s no bottom.” Mr. Trump and Mr. McCain had a long history of enmity, one that lasted even through the senator’s death. Mr. McCain made it clear that Mr. Trump was not welcome at his memorial service in Washington, even as both President Barack Obama, who defeated Mr. McCain in the 2008 presidential race, and President George W. Bush, who defeated him in the Republican primaries in 2000, delivered eulogies. And over the weekend, the tensions resurfaced, as McCain supporters denounced the president’s tweets — and, in many cases, the president himself. Mr. Weaver criticized Mr. Trump’s avoidance of service in Vietnam, where Mr. McCain was held captive as a prisoner of war, his refusal to release his own grades while criticizing Mr. McCain’s academic performance at the United States Naval Academy, and the president’s desire to terminate the Affordable Care Act. “These are the things he wanted to attack John McCain on? Seriously?” Mr. Weaver said. “I am waiting for Republican members of the Senate who served with the senator for years and allowed him to be the point of the spear on so many issues,” he said. “Where are they?” Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina and one of Mr. McCain’s closest friends, chose to praise his friend rather than criticize the president. “As to @SenJohnMcCain and his devotion to his country: He stepped forward to risk his life for his country, served honorably under difficult circumstances, and was one of the most consequential senators in the history of the body,” he said on Twitter. “Nothing about his service will ever be changed or diminished.” Mike Murphy, another McCain political adviser, displayed no such reluctance to chastise the president: “McCain was a hero,” he said. “Trump is a whimpering coward. He was afraid to go to Vietnam 47 years ago and is afraid to face the legal consequences of his actions today.” “He just has no empathy,” Mr. Murphy said. “He’s only concerned with himself.” Mark Salter, one of Mr. McCain’s closest advisers and co-author of several books with him, was even more biting. “Here is what will never change,” Mr. Salter said in a tweet. “John McCain will always be a better man than you in every way we measure a man’s character. You’ll never beat him.” The White House did not respond to a request for comment about Mr. Trump’s remarks. Still, Mr. Trump insisted on using Mr. McCain as a posthumous whipping post, even taking a dig at Mr. McCain’s academic record, calling him “last in his class.” Mr. McCain often mocked his own performance in the classroom as a midshipman, and never shied from noting that he graduated fifth from the bottom. The president had no public events on his schedule this weekend, but he kept up a barrage of tweets. He called for fealty to the Fox News personalities Jeanine Pirro, who was suspended by the network after questioning a Muslim lawmaker’s loyalty to the United States, and Tucker Carlson, who has come under criticism for his remarks on a shock-jock radio program about a decade ago. Mr. Trump also again threatened to use the federal government to crack down on programs that make fun of him, singling out “Saturday Night Live.” He did participate in one unscheduled event, taking a short car ride across Pennsylvania Avenue on Sunday to attend services at St. John’s Episcopal Church, a rarity for Mr. Trump. The second reading, according to the program, was from Philippians, which begins “join together in following my example, brothers and sisters, and just as you have us as a model, keep your eyes on those who live as we do.”   

Supported by By Michael Tackett WASHINGTON — Tucked between St. Patrick’s Day greetings and repeat criticism of a rerun of “Saturday Night Live,” President Trump demonstrated that not even death provides a respite from his wrath on Twitter. In posts on Saturday and Sunday, Mr. Trump renewed his criticism of Senator John McCain, the Arizona Republican who died in August from complications from a virulent form of brain cancer. The president attacked Mr. McCain over his role in the Justice Department investigation into Russian efforts to influence the 2016 presidential election. He then added that Mr. McCain “had far worse ‘stains’ ” on his record, including the senator’s decisive vote against repealing the Affordable Care Act. “Spreading the fake and totally discredited Dossier ‘is unfortunately a very dark stain against John McCain,’” he tweeted on Saturday, quoting comments in a Fox News interview by the former independent counsel Ken Starr about the so-called Steele Dossier, which outlined a range of often salacious but unproven misdeeds by Mr. Trump and his associates. “So it was indeed (just proven in court papers) ‘last in his class’ (Annapolis) John McCain that sent the Fake Dossier to the FBI and Media hoping to have it printed BEFORE the Election,” he wrote on Sunday. “He & the Dems, working together, failed (as usual). Even the Fake News refused this garbage!” In fact, Mr. McCain provided a copy of the dossier to the F.B.I. after Election Day. But supporters of Mr. Trump have seized on the dossier’s uncorroborated accusations and political roots in the campaign as a way to try to discredit the special counsel’s Russia inquiry. The comments exemplified Mr. Trump’s model for presidential communication, both in form and tone, exploiting the power and urgency of social media, often with harsh and bitterly personal attacks. But they also sparked swift condemnation, showing that the president abandons conventional boundaries of civility like not speaking ill of the dead at his peril. “There’s no low with him,” John Weaver, who was a political adviser to Mr. McCain, said in an interview. “There’s no bottom.” Mr. Trump and Mr. McCain had a long history of enmity, one that lasted even through the senator’s death. Mr. McCain made it clear that Mr. Trump was not welcome at his memorial service in Washington, even as both President Barack Obama, who defeated Mr. McCain in the 2008 presidential race, and President George W. Bush, who defeated him in the Republican primaries in 2000, delivered eulogies. And over the weekend, the tensions resurfaced, as McCain supporters denounced the president’s tweets — and, in many cases, the president himself. Mr. Weaver criticized Mr. Trump’s avoidance of service in Vietnam, where Mr. McCain was held captive as a prisoner of war, his refusal to release his own grades while criticizing Mr. McCain’s academic performance at the United States Naval Academy, and the president’s desire to terminate the Affordable Care Act. “These are the things he wanted to attack John McCain on? Seriously?” Mr. Weaver said. “I am waiting for Republican members of the Senate who served with the senator for years and allowed him to be the point of the spear on so many issues,” he said. “Where are they?” Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina and one of Mr. McCain’s closest friends, chose to praise his friend rather than criticize the president. “As to @SenJohnMcCain and his devotion to his country: He stepped forward to risk his life for his country, served honorably under difficult circumstances, and was one of the most consequential senators in the history of the body,” he said on Twitter. “Nothing about his service will ever be changed or diminished.” Mike Murphy, another McCain political adviser, displayed no such reluctance to chastise the president: “McCain was a hero,” he said. “Trump is a whimpering coward. He was afraid to go to Vietnam 47 years ago and is afraid to face the legal consequences of his actions today.” “He just has no empathy,” Mr. Murphy said. “He’s only concerned with himself.” Mark Salter, one of Mr. McCain’s closest advisers and co-author of several books with him, was even more biting. “Here is what will never change,” Mr. Salter said in a tweet. “John McCain will always be a better man than you in every way we measure a man’s character. You’ll never beat him.” The White House did not respond to a request for comment about Mr. Trump’s remarks. Still, Mr. Trump insisted on using Mr. McCain as a posthumous whipping post, even taking a dig at Mr. McCain’s academic record, calling him “last in his class.” Mr. McCain often mocked his own performance in the classroom as a midshipman, and never shied from noting that he graduated fifth from the bottom. The president had no public events on his schedule this weekend, but he kept up a barrage of tweets. He called for fealty to the Fox News personalities Jeanine Pirro, who was suspended by the network after questioning a Muslim lawmaker’s loyalty to the United States, and Tucker Carlson, who has come under criticism for his remarks on a shock-jock radio program about a decade ago. Mr. Trump also again threatened to use the federal government to crack down on programs that make fun of him, singling out “Saturday Night Live.” He did participate in one unscheduled event, taking a short car ride across Pennsylvania Avenue on Sunday to attend services at St. John’s Episcopal Church, a rarity for Mr. Trump. The second reading, according to the program, was from Philippians, which begins “join together in following my example, brothers and sisters, and just as you have us as a model, keep your eyes on those who live as we do.”   Supported by INTERNATIONAL An article on Wednesday about the decline in German military spending misstated the name of the organization where the analyst Julianna Smith is a senior fellow. It is the Robert Bosch Academy, not the Robert Bosch Foundation. • An article on Wednesday about the resignation of President Nursultan Nazarbayev of Kazakhstan misidentified a possible successor to Mr. Nazarbayev. She is Dariga Nazarbeyeva, his oldest daughter, not Dinara Kulibaeva, his second daughter. BUSINESS An article on Tuesday about the spread of a conspiracy theory based on the idea that white women are not having enough children reported certain comments by the Fox News host Tucker Carlson out of context. The quotation — “This is why important science is no longer being conducted. It’s why art isn’t being made and comedy is dying.” — referred to the criticism Mr. Carlson had received for saying on his television program that women out-earning men was a major cause of the collapse of families. The quotation was not describing his views of the effects of women out-earning men. SCIENCE An article on Tuesday about NASA’s successful MarCO mission referred imprecisely to how far a cubesat had traveled when it reached Mars. It had traveled 300 million miles, not 90 million miles (Earth and Mars were about 90 million miles apart at the time the cubesat flew past Mars). The article also provided an erroneous distinction to a picture a cubesat took. It was the first picture taken of Mars by a cubesat, not the first in deep space. SPECIAL SECTION: THE ARTFUL HOME An article on March 7 about coffee-table books on the subject of design misstated the price of the facsimile edition of the Bauhaus Journal. It is $80, not $91. It also misidentified the publisher of “Home Futures: Living in Yesterday’s Tomorrow.” It is Design Museum, not D.A.P.; the latter is the book’s distributor. OBITUARIES An obituary on Sunday about the writer and editor Al Silverman misstated the surname of a former executive editor of the Book-of-the-Month Club, where Mr. Silverman was an executive for many years. He is Larry Shapiro, not Jacobs. Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions. To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com or call 1-844-NYT-NEWS (1-844-698-6397). Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com or faxed to (212) 556-3622. For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.

Supported by INTERNATIONAL An article on Wednesday about the decline in German military spending misstated the name of the organization where the analyst Julianna Smith is a senior fellow. It is the Robert Bosch Academy, not the Robert Bosch Foundation. • An article on Wednesday about the resignation of President Nursultan Nazarbayev of Kazakhstan misidentified a possible successor to Mr. Nazarbayev. She is Dariga Nazarbeyeva, his oldest daughter, not Dinara Kulibaeva, his second daughter. BUSINESS An article on Tuesday about the spread of a conspiracy theory based on the idea that white women are not having enough children reported certain comments by the Fox News host Tucker Carlson out of context. The quotation — “This is why important science is no longer being conducted. It’s why art isn’t being made and comedy is dying.” — referred to the criticism Mr. Carlson had received for saying on his television program that women out-earning men was a major cause of the collapse of families. The quotation was not describing his views of the effects of women out-earning men. SCIENCE An article on Tuesday about NASA’s successful MarCO mission referred imprecisely to how far a cubesat had traveled when it reached Mars. It had traveled 300 million miles, not 90 million miles (Earth and Mars were about 90 million miles apart at the time the cubesat flew past Mars). The article also provided an erroneous distinction to a picture a cubesat took. It was the first picture taken of Mars by a cubesat, not the first in deep space. SPECIAL SECTION: THE ARTFUL HOME An article on March 7 about coffee-table books on the subject of design misstated the price of the facsimile edition of the Bauhaus Journal. It is $80, not $91. It also misidentified the publisher of “Home Futures: Living in Yesterday’s Tomorrow.” It is Design Museum, not D.A.P.; the latter is the book’s distributor. OBITUARIES An obituary on Sunday about the writer and editor Al Silverman misstated the surname of a former executive editor of the Book-of-the-Month Club, where Mr. Silverman was an executive for many years. He is Larry Shapiro, not Jacobs. Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions. To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com or call 1-844-NYT-NEWS (1-844-698-6397). Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com or faxed to (212) 556-3622. For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.Supported by By Katie Rogers WASHINGTON — The Outrage, a clothing store in the capital that has branded itself a hub of the resistance to President Trump, is a place where people have often gathered to shed tears over the latest news cycle, or to buy $32 T-shirts emblazoned with expletive-laced messages calling for the president’s impeachment. But on Thursday, moments after the release of the special counsel’s full — if not plentifully redacted — report detailing Russian interference in the 2016 election, the outrage seemed to have momentarily left the building. “No tears today,” Rebecca Lee Funk, the store’s founder, said of the 100 or so people who had passed through to peruse the merchandise, including $26 Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg-themed water bottles and activism-oriented children’s books, early Thursday afternoon. “A lot of people came to terms a month ago that this was not the report that’s going to end this administration.” The release of the latest Big Report is a Washington tradition going back generations, with players including a prosecutor and a commission or a government agency finally releasing a study on some issue of pressing national interest. On Twitter and on cable news, the battle over defining the meaning of the report by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, started right on schedule. In one corner, the president distributed a “Game of Thrones”-style poster to his Twitter followers — “Game Over,” read the Trumpified version. Triumphant aides took to the White House driveway: Kellyanne Conway, the counselor to the president, declared the entire enterprise “a political proctology exam.” In another corner, Democratic elected officials urged supporters to cover their ears when it came to the attorney general’s descriptions of the report. Others vowed to keep putting pressure on the president, whose lies they say are now well documented for all to see. “The president and his attorney general expect the American people to be blind to what we can now see,” Representative Elijah E. Cummings, Democrat of Maryland and the chairman of the House Committee on Oversight and Reform, said in a statement. “This report catalogs in excruciating detail a proliferation of lies by the president to the American people, as well as his incessant and repeated efforts to encourage others to lie.” But the rage-filled circus we see on our screens can sometimes bear little resemblance to life in the capital. On the streets of this heavily Democratic city, the release of the report seemed to be met with exhaustion-induced acceptance that Mr. Mueller had not delivered the knockout condemnation of the president it was once assumed he would. Rachel Adamiak, 27, who works at the Meatball Shop, said that she had noticed that everyone around town — down to her Uber drivers — wanted to talk about the news. But she was tired. “I’m just, like, so overwhelmed with this never-ending party that we have going on,” Ms. Adamiak said. “I’m starting to shut it out because it makes me angrier and angrier the more that I read.” A similar mood was felt at Eaton, which is known around town as the anti-Trump hotel for drawing progressive visitors to a place with an in-house podcast recording studio and gender-neutral group bathrooms. “I was expecting our president to be walked away in handcuffs,” Scott Wright, 46, of Atlanta, said as he was waiting for his Uber after checking out. After Attorney General William P. Barr reported last month that Mr. Mueller had determined that Mr. Trump’s campaign had not cooperated with Russia, and his declaration that the president had not been guilty of any crimes relating to obstruction of justice, Mr. Wright had tuned out — far out — “I’m actually reading more fantasy fiction,” he added. The stoic feelings of progressive Washington were similarly subdued in the city’s more conservative corners. Mr. Barr was able to eat his lunch at Tosca, a white-cloth Italian restaurant offering lunch specials of pan-seared octopus, pea purée, and tiramisù, in peace. And at the nearby Trump International Hotel, there were none of the cabinet secretaries, personal lawyers or other Trump-world luminaries. Instead, guests wearing “Make America Great Again” hats sipped beer and rosé. Two of the bar’s four large televisions, usually fixed on CNN or Fox News, were even tuned to sports channels. “Objectively, we can agree that there’s an enormous sense of relief that this has been put to bed,” said Harlan Hill, a Republican strategist and Trump campaign advisory board member who visits the hotel most weeknights. “It’s kind of like a rerun of a few weeks ago: We were really, really excited to have that, and this is confirmation of what we already know.” Some big reports are dutifully put on a shelf and never dusted off again. Others explode in the capital with enormous force. Ari Melber, a lawyer and one of the many MSNBC hosts who were preparing to shuffle in a conga line of Washington-based experts and pundits on Thursday, likened the experience of parsing them to a Supreme Court ruling — a “paper bomb” that needed to be dissected upon arrival. The Warren Commission report in 1964 seemed to answer the important questions about John F. Kennedy’s assassination, only to spawn endless conspiracy theories for decades to come. The Starr report, released by Congress sight unseen in 1998, was read aloud by television anchors who turned red as they found themselves describing sex acts in rather un-Washington explicitness. The bipartisan 9/11 Commission report in 2004 became the definitive bible for what happened on Sept. 11, 2001, sold more than one million copies and was named a finalist for the National Book Award. The Senate report on torture of detainees, on the other hand, was fought over for years and created a firestorm when it came out in 2014, but quickly seemed forgotten. The Mueller report stands to be remembered in Washington as one that was prelitigated in partisan circles before the public ever knew what was in it, Philip D. Zelikow, a professor at the University of Virginia and the former director of the 9/11 commission, said in an interview. He said that the overarching theme of the report — detailing a hostile government’s efforts to influence an American election — at least initially will be lost in the Trump-focused fray. “The first impression of what the report said was the Barr letter,” Mr. Zelikow said, “and then a further news conference today. That has allowed the attorney general to shape the initial impressions and coverage surrounding this report for a month.” Ken Starr, the independent counsel who outlined a case for the impeachment of President Bill Clinton during a notoriously poisonous political era, said the climate of the chattering class — of which, as a Fox News contributor, he is a member — has gotten much worse. “America has always been partisan,” Mr. Starr said. But to Mr. Starr, the cable TV and Internet-fueled partisan wars surrounding the Mueller report’s release on Thursday made dealing with the reporters who camped outside his house as he constructed his own eponymous report 21 years ago seem bizarrely quaint — now, he said, the onslaught of news has a way of “surrounding” Americans. “It’s magnified now by the ubiquity of numerous platforms,” Mr. Starr said. “It’s almost hard to avert your gaze or to close your ears. In the good old days, you just didn’t have to read the newspapers.” Peter Baker contributed reporting.   

Supported by By Katie Rogers WASHINGTON — The Outrage, a clothing store in the capital that has branded itself a hub of the resistance to President Trump, is a place where people have often gathered to shed tears over the latest news cycle, or to buy $32 T-shirts emblazoned with expletive-laced messages calling for the president’s impeachment. But on Thursday, moments after the release of the special counsel’s full — if not plentifully redacted — report detailing Russian interference in the 2016 election, the outrage seemed to have momentarily left the building. “No tears today,” Rebecca Lee Funk, the store’s founder, said of the 100 or so people who had passed through to peruse the merchandise, including $26 Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg-themed water bottles and activism-oriented children’s books, early Thursday afternoon. “A lot of people came to terms a month ago that this was not the report that’s going to end this administration.” The release of the latest Big Report is a Washington tradition going back generations, with players including a prosecutor and a commission or a government agency finally releasing a study on some issue of pressing national interest. On Twitter and on cable news, the battle over defining the meaning of the report by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, started right on schedule. In one corner, the president distributed a “Game of Thrones”-style poster to his Twitter followers — “Game Over,” read the Trumpified version. Triumphant aides took to the White House driveway: Kellyanne Conway, the counselor to the president, declared the entire enterprise “a political proctology exam.” In another corner, Democratic elected officials urged supporters to cover their ears when it came to the attorney general’s descriptions of the report. Others vowed to keep putting pressure on the president, whose lies they say are now well documented for all to see. “The president and his attorney general expect the American people to be blind to what we can now see,” Representative Elijah E. Cummings, Democrat of Maryland and the chairman of the House Committee on Oversight and Reform, said in a statement. “This report catalogs in excruciating detail a proliferation of lies by the president to the American people, as well as his incessant and repeated efforts to encourage others to lie.” But the rage-filled circus we see on our screens can sometimes bear little resemblance to life in the capital. On the streets of this heavily Democratic city, the release of the report seemed to be met with exhaustion-induced acceptance that Mr. Mueller had not delivered the knockout condemnation of the president it was once assumed he would. Rachel Adamiak, 27, who works at the Meatball Shop, said that she had noticed that everyone around town — down to her Uber drivers — wanted to talk about the news. But she was tired. “I’m just, like, so overwhelmed with this never-ending party that we have going on,” Ms. Adamiak said. “I’m starting to shut it out because it makes me angrier and angrier the more that I read.” A similar mood was felt at Eaton, which is known around town as the anti-Trump hotel for drawing progressive visitors to a place with an in-house podcast recording studio and gender-neutral group bathrooms. “I was expecting our president to be walked away in handcuffs,” Scott Wright, 46, of Atlanta, said as he was waiting for his Uber after checking out. After Attorney General William P. Barr reported last month that Mr. Mueller had determined that Mr. Trump’s campaign had not cooperated with Russia, and his declaration that the president had not been guilty of any crimes relating to obstruction of justice, Mr. Wright had tuned out — far out — “I’m actually reading more fantasy fiction,” he added. The stoic feelings of progressive Washington were similarly subdued in the city’s more conservative corners. Mr. Barr was able to eat his lunch at Tosca, a white-cloth Italian restaurant offering lunch specials of pan-seared octopus, pea purée, and tiramisù, in peace. And at the nearby Trump International Hotel, there were none of the cabinet secretaries, personal lawyers or other Trump-world luminaries. Instead, guests wearing “Make America Great Again” hats sipped beer and rosé. Two of the bar’s four large televisions, usually fixed on CNN or Fox News, were even tuned to sports channels. “Objectively, we can agree that there’s an enormous sense of relief that this has been put to bed,” said Harlan Hill, a Republican strategist and Trump campaign advisory board member who visits the hotel most weeknights. “It’s kind of like a rerun of a few weeks ago: We were really, really excited to have that, and this is confirmation of what we already know.” Some big reports are dutifully put on a shelf and never dusted off again. Others explode in the capital with enormous force. Ari Melber, a lawyer and one of the many MSNBC hosts who were preparing to shuffle in a conga line of Washington-based experts and pundits on Thursday, likened the experience of parsing them to a Supreme Court ruling — a “paper bomb” that needed to be dissected upon arrival. The Warren Commission report in 1964 seemed to answer the important questions about John F. Kennedy’s assassination, only to spawn endless conspiracy theories for decades to come. The Starr report, released by Congress sight unseen in 1998, was read aloud by television anchors who turned red as they found themselves describing sex acts in rather un-Washington explicitness. The bipartisan 9/11 Commission report in 2004 became the definitive bible for what happened on Sept. 11, 2001, sold more than one million copies and was named a finalist for the National Book Award. The Senate report on torture of detainees, on the other hand, was fought over for years and created a firestorm when it came out in 2014, but quickly seemed forgotten. The Mueller report stands to be remembered in Washington as one that was prelitigated in partisan circles before the public ever knew what was in it, Philip D. Zelikow, a professor at the University of Virginia and the former director of the 9/11 commission, said in an interview. He said that the overarching theme of the report — detailing a hostile government’s efforts to influence an American election — at least initially will be lost in the Trump-focused fray. “The first impression of what the report said was the Barr letter,” Mr. Zelikow said, “and then a further news conference today. That has allowed the attorney general to shape the initial impressions and coverage surrounding this report for a month.” Ken Starr, the independent counsel who outlined a case for the impeachment of President Bill Clinton during a notoriously poisonous political era, said the climate of the chattering class — of which, as a Fox News contributor, he is a member — has gotten much worse. “America has always been partisan,” Mr. Starr said. But to Mr. Starr, the cable TV and Internet-fueled partisan wars surrounding the Mueller report’s release on Thursday made dealing with the reporters who camped outside his house as he constructed his own eponymous report 21 years ago seem bizarrely quaint — now, he said, the onslaught of news has a way of “surrounding” Americans. “It’s magnified now by the ubiquity of numerous platforms,” Mr. Starr said. “It’s almost hard to avert your gaze or to close your ears. In the good old days, you just didn’t have to read the newspapers.” Peter Baker contributed reporting.   Supported by The president is following a Republican playbook that is now nearly two decades old.  By Jamelle Bouie Opinion Columnist It’s still common to hear analysts speak of the “Trumpification” of the Republican Party — the extent to which it has adopted the attitude and ethos of the sitting president. But this phrasing assumes discontinuity between past and present, as if there weren’t antecedents to Donald Trump in the recent Republican past. The actual relationship between Trump and the Republican Party is more psychological. Trump is the Republican id personified, driven to express the impulses and desires of conservative politics in their basest form. That dynamic has been on clear display for the past few days, as the president of the United States leads a campaign of racist demagoguery against Representative Ilhan Omar of Minnesota, a Somali-American Democrat and one of the first Muslim women elected to Congress. The pretext for this attack was Omar’s remarks last month at a fund-raiser for the Council on American-Islamic Relations. Omar talked about several issues but her major theme was prejudice against Muslim Americans. “Here’s the truth,” she said. “For far too long we have lived with the discomfort of being a second-class citizen. Frankly, I’m tired of it. And every single Muslim in this country should be tired of it. CAIR was founded after 9/11 because they recognized that some people did something and that all of us were starting to lose access to our civil liberties.” CAIR was actually founded in 1994, but Omar’s point is clear: A small group of Muslims committed the attacks on Sept. 11, 2001, but many Americans blamed Islam itself. Muslims quickly became targets of fear, disdain and demagogic political rhetoric. A 2004 report from the American Civil Liberties Union showed widespread attacks on the civil rights of Muslims in the United States, including harassment and racial profiling by federal law enforcement. The way Representative Omar’s address made its way to President Trump is emblematic of how inflammatory ideas and rhetoric are transmitted from individual lawmakers and conservative media to the national stage. Omar spoke in public — Fox News even streamed it for its audience. But it wasn’t a controversy until it reached the ears of Representative Dan Crenshaw of Texas, a Republican who took the snippet on 9/11 and framed it as something disrespectful. “First Member of Congress to ever describe terrorists who killed thousands of Americans on 9/11 as ‘some people who did something,’” Crenshaw said on Twitter. “Unbelievable.” With that, the wider world of conservative media pounced. “You have to wonder if she’s an American first,” declared Brian Kilmeade, one of the hosts of “Fox & Friends” on Fox News. The Rupert Murdoch-owned New York Post took it a step further with a Thursday front page showing a photo from 9/11 — the moment the second plane crashed into the World Trade Center — with the headline, “Here’s Your Something.” On Friday, Trump stepped into the fray with a video. Footage from the Sept. 11 attacks is edited together with Omar saying “Some people did something” to create the impression of dismissive contempt for the dead. Trump captioned the video “WE WILL NEVER FORGET!” He later retweeted an account that called Omar a “sick monster.” The president continued his attacks on Monday, attempting to disparage House Speaker Nancy Pelosi in the process. “Before Nancy, who has lost all control of Congress and is getting nothing done, decides to defend her leader, Rep. Omar, she should look at the anti-Semitic, anti-Israel and ungrateful U.S. HATE statements Omar has made,” he said on Twitter. “She is out of control, except for her control of Nancy!” Crenshaw may have sparked these attacks, but the president’s intervention has escalated the situation to something potentially dangerous, which is why — after a slow start — Democrats have begun to condemn the president’s actions, defending Omar by name. “Ilhan Omar is a leader with strength and courage. She won’t back down to Trump’s racism and hate, and neither will we,” said Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont. “The disgusting and dangerous attacks against her must end.” Likewise, Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts accused Trump of “inciting violence against a sitting Congresswoman — and an entire group of Americans based on their religion.” That, of course, is the idea. Trump believes he benefits from the passions and anger stirred by racist demagoguery. It is easy to tie these attacks to Trump’s history of anti-Muslim rhetoric. But anti-Muslim prejudice was common in Republican politics before he stepped on the political stage with his “birther” charges against President Barack Obama. It was an important force among Republican voters — in one 2004 poll, for example, about 40 percent of self-identified Republicans said that Muslim Americans should be required to register with the government and 41 percent said that Muslim-American civic groups should be infiltrated by the government. Well before Obama was a household name and Trump a political figure, a 2006 Gallup poll found wide anti-Muslim prejudice “with Republicans ascribing more negative political and religious qualities to Muslims, and being more opposed to having Muslims as neighbors than are Democrats and independents.” It was an important force in conservative media. Conservative radio and television hosts frequently conflated all Muslims with the actions of extremists. In one 2006 segment on his radio show, Glenn Beck warned that if “good Muslims” aren’t “the first ones in the recruitment office lining up to shoot the bad Muslims in the head,” then “human beings” might be forced into “putting up razor wire and putting you on one side of it.” And it found traffic with Republican politicians. After Keith Ellison became the first Muslim elected to Congress in 2006, Representative Virgil Goode of Virginia wrote a letter to voters in his district stating his fear that “in the next century we will have many more Muslims in the United States if we do not adopt the strict immigration policies that I believe are necessary to preserve the values and beliefs traditional to the United States of America and to prevent our resources from being swamped.” Anti-Muslim prejudice surfaced throughout the 2008 presidential campaign. Donald Trump has simply brought this rhetoric to the bully pulpit of the American presidency. He has taken everything coursing through the last 20 years of Republican politics and made it explicit. It now has an official seal of approval. And if Omar is a target, it has little to do with what she said and everything to do with who she is: A black Muslim woman — and an immigrant — whose very person disrupts the exclusionary ideal of a white Christian America. The difference between the pre-Trump era and the present, in other words, isn’t the substance of belief but its expression — and the force of the venom, contempt and hatred behind it. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Jamelle Bouie became a New York Times Opinion columnist in 2019. Before that he was the chief political correspondent for Slate magazine. He is based in Charlottesville, Va., and Washington.  @jbouie 

Supported by The president is following a Republican playbook that is now nearly two decades old.  By Jamelle Bouie Opinion Columnist It’s still common to hear analysts speak of the “Trumpification” of the Republican Party — the extent to which it has adopted the attitude and ethos of the sitting president. But this phrasing assumes discontinuity between past and present, as if there weren’t antecedents to Donald Trump in the recent Republican past. The actual relationship between Trump and the Republican Party is more psychological. Trump is the Republican id personified, driven to express the impulses and desires of conservative politics in their basest form. That dynamic has been on clear display for the past few days, as the president of the United States leads a campaign of racist demagoguery against Representative Ilhan Omar of Minnesota, a Somali-American Democrat and one of the first Muslim women elected to Congress. The pretext for this attack was Omar’s remarks last month at a fund-raiser for the Council on American-Islamic Relations. Omar talked about several issues but her major theme was prejudice against Muslim Americans. “Here’s the truth,” she said. “For far too long we have lived with the discomfort of being a second-class citizen. Frankly, I’m tired of it. And every single Muslim in this country should be tired of it. CAIR was founded after 9/11 because they recognized that some people did something and that all of us were starting to lose access to our civil liberties.” CAIR was actually founded in 1994, but Omar’s point is clear: A small group of Muslims committed the attacks on Sept. 11, 2001, but many Americans blamed Islam itself. Muslims quickly became targets of fear, disdain and demagogic political rhetoric. A 2004 report from the American Civil Liberties Union showed widespread attacks on the civil rights of Muslims in the United States, including harassment and racial profiling by federal law enforcement. The way Representative Omar’s address made its way to President Trump is emblematic of how inflammatory ideas and rhetoric are transmitted from individual lawmakers and conservative media to the national stage. Omar spoke in public — Fox News even streamed it for its audience. But it wasn’t a controversy until it reached the ears of Representative Dan Crenshaw of Texas, a Republican who took the snippet on 9/11 and framed it as something disrespectful. “First Member of Congress to ever describe terrorists who killed thousands of Americans on 9/11 as ‘some people who did something,’” Crenshaw said on Twitter. “Unbelievable.” With that, the wider world of conservative media pounced. “You have to wonder if she’s an American first,” declared Brian Kilmeade, one of the hosts of “Fox & Friends” on Fox News. The Rupert Murdoch-owned New York Post took it a step further with a Thursday front page showing a photo from 9/11 — the moment the second plane crashed into the World Trade Center — with the headline, “Here’s Your Something.” On Friday, Trump stepped into the fray with a video. Footage from the Sept. 11 attacks is edited together with Omar saying “Some people did something” to create the impression of dismissive contempt for the dead. Trump captioned the video “WE WILL NEVER FORGET!” He later retweeted an account that called Omar a “sick monster.” The president continued his attacks on Monday, attempting to disparage House Speaker Nancy Pelosi in the process. “Before Nancy, who has lost all control of Congress and is getting nothing done, decides to defend her leader, Rep. Omar, she should look at the anti-Semitic, anti-Israel and ungrateful U.S. HATE statements Omar has made,” he said on Twitter. “She is out of control, except for her control of Nancy!” Crenshaw may have sparked these attacks, but the president’s intervention has escalated the situation to something potentially dangerous, which is why — after a slow start — Democrats have begun to condemn the president’s actions, defending Omar by name. “Ilhan Omar is a leader with strength and courage. She won’t back down to Trump’s racism and hate, and neither will we,” said Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont. “The disgusting and dangerous attacks against her must end.” Likewise, Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts accused Trump of “inciting violence against a sitting Congresswoman — and an entire group of Americans based on their religion.” That, of course, is the idea. Trump believes he benefits from the passions and anger stirred by racist demagoguery. It is easy to tie these attacks to Trump’s history of anti-Muslim rhetoric. But anti-Muslim prejudice was common in Republican politics before he stepped on the political stage with his “birther” charges against President Barack Obama. It was an important force among Republican voters — in one 2004 poll, for example, about 40 percent of self-identified Republicans said that Muslim Americans should be required to register with the government and 41 percent said that Muslim-American civic groups should be infiltrated by the government. Well before Obama was a household name and Trump a political figure, a 2006 Gallup poll found wide anti-Muslim prejudice “with Republicans ascribing more negative political and religious qualities to Muslims, and being more opposed to having Muslims as neighbors than are Democrats and independents.” It was an important force in conservative media. Conservative radio and television hosts frequently conflated all Muslims with the actions of extremists. In one 2006 segment on his radio show, Glenn Beck warned that if “good Muslims” aren’t “the first ones in the recruitment office lining up to shoot the bad Muslims in the head,” then “human beings” might be forced into “putting up razor wire and putting you on one side of it.” And it found traffic with Republican politicians. After Keith Ellison became the first Muslim elected to Congress in 2006, Representative Virgil Goode of Virginia wrote a letter to voters in his district stating his fear that “in the next century we will have many more Muslims in the United States if we do not adopt the strict immigration policies that I believe are necessary to preserve the values and beliefs traditional to the United States of America and to prevent our resources from being swamped.” Anti-Muslim prejudice surfaced throughout the 2008 presidential campaign. Donald Trump has simply brought this rhetoric to the bully pulpit of the American presidency. He has taken everything coursing through the last 20 years of Republican politics and made it explicit. It now has an official seal of approval. And if Omar is a target, it has little to do with what she said and everything to do with who she is: A black Muslim woman — and an immigrant — whose very person disrupts the exclusionary ideal of a white Christian America. The difference between the pre-Trump era and the present, in other words, isn’t the substance of belief but its expression — and the force of the venom, contempt and hatred behind it. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Jamelle Bouie became a New York Times Opinion columnist in 2019. Before that he was the chief political correspondent for Slate magazine. He is based in Charlottesville, Va., and Washington.  @jbouie Supported by Good Tuesday morning. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today. _____________________ • President Trump’s aggressive and unpredictable style has brought other countries to the negotiating table. But his approach is causing concern among business groups and foreign officials, with many wondering if it will undermine the United States’ traditional role in setting global trade rules, hampering economic growth in the process. • The Center for American Progress, founded by top Clinton aides and traditionally a stronghold for the Democratic Party, is facing a series of missteps that are putting the organization at odds with progressive leftists and leaving its role in the 2020 presidential race in flux. • During the 2016 campaign, Mr. Trump targeted Muslims as a supposed threat against the United States. With his recent attack on Representative Ilhan Omar of Minnesota, he has resurrected the same theme for his re-election bid. • Oil purchases by China and India are undermining American sanctions on Iran and Venezuela, but halting them could be costly. As a deadline approaches to decide if China and India should receive waivers to buy Iranian oil, the United States must choose between oil markets and diplomacy. • Attorney General William Barr will release a redacted version of the special counsel’s report on Thursday to both Congress and the public, the first step in what promises to be a protracted fight with Democratic lawmakers over how much of the document they are allowed to see. • Next week, the Supreme Court will consider whether the Trump administration may add a question about citizenship to the 2020 census. The consequences will be vast if the question is added, particularly a possible decrease in participation. • The Internal Revenue Service is facing an April 23 deadline to hand over Mr. Trump’s tax returns to House Democrats. But the president’s personal lawyer claims that the move would turn the I.R.S. into a political weapon. • The two presidential candidates who entered 2019 with the largest bases of supporters — Mr. Trump and Senator Bernie Sanders — led the 2020 field in fund-raising in the first quarter of the year. • Mr. Sanders has disclosed 10 years of tax returns, revealing that after his presidential bid, his income topped $1 million in 2016 and 2017, and put him within the top 1 percent of taxpayers. • At a town-hall-style event hosted by Fox News, Mr. Sanders rejected the idea that his newfound millionaire status was a testament to capitalism and the “American dream.” • Pete Buttigieg kicked off his 2020 campaign with a speech on what kind of president he hoped to be. Read the full text, annotated with our observations. • Senator Elizabeth Warren has unveiled a public lands proposal, pushing the environment into the 2020 election spotlight and setting the pace on policy among Democratic presidential candidates. _____________________ Today’s On Politics briefing was compiled by Margaret Kramer in New York. Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.

Supported by Good Tuesday morning. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today. _____________________ • President Trump’s aggressive and unpredictable style has brought other countries to the negotiating table. But his approach is causing concern among business groups and foreign officials, with many wondering if it will undermine the United States’ traditional role in setting global trade rules, hampering economic growth in the process. • The Center for American Progress, founded by top Clinton aides and traditionally a stronghold for the Democratic Party, is facing a series of missteps that are putting the organization at odds with progressive leftists and leaving its role in the 2020 presidential race in flux. • During the 2016 campaign, Mr. Trump targeted Muslims as a supposed threat against the United States. With his recent attack on Representative Ilhan Omar of Minnesota, he has resurrected the same theme for his re-election bid. • Oil purchases by China and India are undermining American sanctions on Iran and Venezuela, but halting them could be costly. As a deadline approaches to decide if China and India should receive waivers to buy Iranian oil, the United States must choose between oil markets and diplomacy. • Attorney General William Barr will release a redacted version of the special counsel’s report on Thursday to both Congress and the public, the first step in what promises to be a protracted fight with Democratic lawmakers over how much of the document they are allowed to see. • Next week, the Supreme Court will consider whether the Trump administration may add a question about citizenship to the 2020 census. The consequences will be vast if the question is added, particularly a possible decrease in participation. • The Internal Revenue Service is facing an April 23 deadline to hand over Mr. Trump’s tax returns to House Democrats. But the president’s personal lawyer claims that the move would turn the I.R.S. into a political weapon. • The two presidential candidates who entered 2019 with the largest bases of supporters — Mr. Trump and Senator Bernie Sanders — led the 2020 field in fund-raising in the first quarter of the year. • Mr. Sanders has disclosed 10 years of tax returns, revealing that after his presidential bid, his income topped $1 million in 2016 and 2017, and put him within the top 1 percent of taxpayers. • At a town-hall-style event hosted by Fox News, Mr. Sanders rejected the idea that his newfound millionaire status was a testament to capitalism and the “American dream.” • Pete Buttigieg kicked off his 2020 campaign with a speech on what kind of president he hoped to be. Read the full text, annotated with our observations. • Senator Elizabeth Warren has unveiled a public lands proposal, pushing the environment into the 2020 election spotlight and setting the pace on policy among Democratic presidential candidates. _____________________ Today’s On Politics briefing was compiled by Margaret Kramer in New York. Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.Supported by By Annie Karni and Maggie Haberman WASHINGTON — President Trump said on Monday that he has rejected a proposal by Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina to temporarily reopen the government in an effort to jump-start talks with Democratic lawmakers on funding a border wall. “I did reject it,” Mr. Trump said of the proposal, speaking to reporters as he boarded Marine One outside of the White House, en route to delivering a speech to a farm convention in New Orleans. In an appearance on Fox News Sunday, Mr. Graham, a close ally of the president, pitched Mr. Trump on a plan for the president to agree to a vote by Congress to reopen the government for about three weeks “before he pulls the plug on the legislative option.” If there was no progress made during that time, Mr. Graham said, the president could then declare a national emergency as a way to obtain funding for a border wall without congressional action. But Mr. Trump said that he did not want to extend the impasse over funding for the wall. It was not clear, however, what Mr. Trump saw as an alternative. “I’m not looking to call a national emergency,” he said on Monday. “This is so simple you shouldn’t have to.” Mr. Trump, advisers said, has refused to allow his acting chief of staff, Mick Mulvaney, or anyone else negotiating on his behalf to compromise on his demand for $5.7 billion in border wall funding. That has led to awkward moments in front of congressional leaders. In a meeting at the White House with lawmakers from both parties on Jan. 4, Mr. Trump castigated Mr. Mulvaney for proposing a compromise figure between Mr. Trump’s desired $5.7 billion for a wall and the Democrats’ offer of $1.3 billion for border security, as a way to end the shutdown. Using an expletive, the president blamed his acting chief of staff for messing up the negotiations. The salty exchange was first reported by Axios. Mr. Trump emerged on the South Lawn on Monday after spending a snowy weekend without leaving the White House grounds. It was a rare occurrence for a president who typically spends weekend afternoons during winter on his golf course in Palm Beach. But Mr. Trump’s physical presence in the capital has become one of the ways he has tried to demonstrate his willingness to negotiate with Democrats on funding the wall, even as he has staked out an intractable position on the issue. It is a point of pride he has highlighted on Twitter and in interviews, as he has become concerned about the perception that he is being outmaneuvered by Speaker Nancy Pelosi, a veteran negotiator who even Mr. Trump has praised in the past. Just over 100 years ago, the first woman was sworn into Congress. As of this month, a record 131 women are serving in the Legislature. The New York Times photographed them. “I haven’t left the White House in months,” Mr. Trump told Jeanine Pirro, the Fox News host who is also a personal friend of the president’s, in a phone-in interview on her show Saturday night. In fact, Mr. Trump traveled to the Texas border earlier in the week. On Monday, Mr. Trump again highlighted his physical presence in Washington as a selling point. “I’ve been here all weekend,” Mr. Trump said. “A lot of the Democrats were in Puerto Rico celebrating something. I don’t know, maybe they’re celebrating the shutdown.” While about 30 Democratic lawmakers, most of whom are members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, spent the weekend at an annual winter retreat in Puerto Rico, Ms. Pelosi spent the entire weekend in Washington, a spokesman said. Mr. Trump, advisers said, still believes he has the upper hand with Democrats. But people in the White House have become increasingly concerned as the shutdown drags on and public opinion polls have shown that the majority of the country pins the blame on Mr. Trump. About 53 percent of Americans see Mr. Trump and the Republicans as mainly at fault for the shutdown, according to a Washington Post-ABC News poll conducted between Jan. 8 and 11. Only 29 percent blamed Democrats in Congress for the partial government shutdown that has left 800,000 federal employees working without pay, or furloughed. Adding to Mr. Trump’s rigidity in the shutdown negotiations is the anticipation among White House officials that a report from the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, could be delivered to the Justice Department in the coming weeks. Mr. Trump is agitated by the prospect of Mr. Mueller’s report, according to people who have spoken with him, even as advisers have tried to downplay what might be in it.  

Supported by By Annie Karni and Maggie Haberman WASHINGTON — President Trump said on Monday that he has rejected a proposal by Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina to temporarily reopen the government in an effort to jump-start talks with Democratic lawmakers on funding a border wall. “I did reject it,” Mr. Trump said of the proposal, speaking to reporters as he boarded Marine One outside of the White House, en route to delivering a speech to a farm convention in New Orleans. In an appearance on Fox News Sunday, Mr. Graham, a close ally of the president, pitched Mr. Trump on a plan for the president to agree to a vote by Congress to reopen the government for about three weeks “before he pulls the plug on the legislative option.” If there was no progress made during that time, Mr. Graham said, the president could then declare a national emergency as a way to obtain funding for a border wall without congressional action. But Mr. Trump said that he did not want to extend the impasse over funding for the wall. It was not clear, however, what Mr. Trump saw as an alternative. “I’m not looking to call a national emergency,” he said on Monday. “This is so simple you shouldn’t have to.” Mr. Trump, advisers said, has refused to allow his acting chief of staff, Mick Mulvaney, or anyone else negotiating on his behalf to compromise on his demand for $5.7 billion in border wall funding. That has led to awkward moments in front of congressional leaders. In a meeting at the White House with lawmakers from both parties on Jan. 4, Mr. Trump castigated Mr. Mulvaney for proposing a compromise figure between Mr. Trump’s desired $5.7 billion for a wall and the Democrats’ offer of $1.3 billion for border security, as a way to end the shutdown. Using an expletive, the president blamed his acting chief of staff for messing up the negotiations. The salty exchange was first reported by Axios. Mr. Trump emerged on the South Lawn on Monday after spending a snowy weekend without leaving the White House grounds. It was a rare occurrence for a president who typically spends weekend afternoons during winter on his golf course in Palm Beach. But Mr. Trump’s physical presence in the capital has become one of the ways he has tried to demonstrate his willingness to negotiate with Democrats on funding the wall, even as he has staked out an intractable position on the issue. It is a point of pride he has highlighted on Twitter and in interviews, as he has become concerned about the perception that he is being outmaneuvered by Speaker Nancy Pelosi, a veteran negotiator who even Mr. Trump has praised in the past. Just over 100 years ago, the first woman was sworn into Congress. As of this month, a record 131 women are serving in the Legislature. The New York Times photographed them. “I haven’t left the White House in months,” Mr. Trump told Jeanine Pirro, the Fox News host who is also a personal friend of the president’s, in a phone-in interview on her show Saturday night. In fact, Mr. Trump traveled to the Texas border earlier in the week. On Monday, Mr. Trump again highlighted his physical presence in Washington as a selling point. “I’ve been here all weekend,” Mr. Trump said. “A lot of the Democrats were in Puerto Rico celebrating something. I don’t know, maybe they’re celebrating the shutdown.” While about 30 Democratic lawmakers, most of whom are members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, spent the weekend at an annual winter retreat in Puerto Rico, Ms. Pelosi spent the entire weekend in Washington, a spokesman said. Mr. Trump, advisers said, still believes he has the upper hand with Democrats. But people in the White House have become increasingly concerned as the shutdown drags on and public opinion polls have shown that the majority of the country pins the blame on Mr. Trump. About 53 percent of Americans see Mr. Trump and the Republicans as mainly at fault for the shutdown, according to a Washington Post-ABC News poll conducted between Jan. 8 and 11. Only 29 percent blamed Democrats in Congress for the partial government shutdown that has left 800,000 federal employees working without pay, or furloughed. Adding to Mr. Trump’s rigidity in the shutdown negotiations is the anticipation among White House officials that a report from the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, could be delivered to the Justice Department in the coming weeks. Mr. Trump is agitated by the prospect of Mr. Mueller’s report, according to people who have spoken with him, even as advisers have tried to downplay what might be in it.  Supported by White House Memo By Annie Karni WASHINGTON — Mark J. Penn, one of the primary architects of President Bill Clinton’s 1996 re-election campaign, met briefly with President Trump in the Oval Office last week, according to two people in attendance. The face-to-face meeting, the first between Mr. Trump and the onetime loyal adviser to the Clintons, marked what some saw as the inevitable conclusion of Mr. Penn’s long-running political metamorphosis. As Democrats have moved to the left, Mr. Penn, with his centrist politics, has become alienated from a party in which he once reigned as a winning pollster and is a frequent guest on Fox News and the author of op-ed articles criticizing the special counsel’s investigation as a “partisan, open-ended inquisition.” He has even adopted the president’s term “deep state” to describe people he views as Democratic operatives sabotaging the Trump administration from within the government. Mr. Penn arrived at the White House last week with Andrew Stein, a Democrat and former president of the New York City Council, who has known Mr. Trump for decades. Mr. Penn, who was credited with helping to keep Mr. Clinton focused during his impeachment, sat across the Resolute Desk from the president at a moment when Democratic lawmakers are wrestling with whether to begin impeachment proceedings against Mr. Trump as the special counsel’s investigation finally comes to an end. But people in attendance said the meeting was not about politics or impeachment, and was brief. It was scheduled, according to one person who was there, by Mr. Stein. Mr. Penn, who last fall helped write an op-ed article in The Wall Street Journal titled “Hillary Will Run Again,” came along at Mr. Stein’s invitation. In the meeting, Mr. Trump praised Mr. Penn for his commentary on the special counsel’s investigation and pumped him about how to interpret the findings of his public poll, the Harris Poll, which puts the president’s favorability rating at about 45 percent. The three former New Yorkers also spent time discussing Edward I. Koch, the New York mayor who was Mr. Penn’s first client and a longtime nemesis of Mr. Trump’s. The two engaged in heated battles over Mr. Trump’s development projects. Mick Mulvaney, the White House chief of staff, and Kellyanne Conway, the counselor to the president, also attended the meeting, which lasted about 20 minutes. In an email, Mr. Penn played down the significance of the visit. “I tagged along with my friend Andrew Stein at his request to one of his meetings, and for the first time to meet the president,” he said. “I have had hundreds of meetings with presidents and I don’t relay their conversations, but this was a cordial meeting and no advice was given or taken — but old-time politics was discussed.” Mr. Penn added, “Despite my misgivings about the Mueller investigation, let me be clear as a lifelong Democrat under no circumstances would I work paid or unpaid for President Trump nor was this meeting about that in any way.” Reached late Friday night, however, Mr. Stein said he invited Mr. Penn to the meeting specifically to discuss polls with Mr. Trump. Mr. Penn was one of three advisers who helped Mr. Clinton navigate toward the political center when he battling a newly empowered Republican majority in Congress led by Newt Gingrich, then the House speaker. He stuck with the Clintons longer than some of Mr. Clinton’s other political gurus, like Dick Morris and Douglas E. Schoen, who became highly vocal Clinton antagonists. Mr. Penn also helped Mrs. Clinton win a New York Senate seat in 2000. But his fallout with the onetime reigning brand in Democratic politics began during Mrs. Clinton’s 2008 presidential campaign, where he clashed with other advisers and was ultimately removed as the chief strategist. Over the past year, like Mr. Schoen and Mr. Morris, he too has won praise on the other side of the political spectrum as he has become seen as a heretic on the left. Mr. Penn has been praised internally at the White House, and by the president himself, for his fulsome attacks on the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III. In his appearances on Fox News — he last appeared on MSNBC in September 2017 — and in his opinion pieces in the conservative-leaning opinions pages of The Hill, Mr. Penn has accused Mr. Mueller of overreaching in his investigation. But an actual sit-down meeting with the president in the Oval Office was, for some former colleagues of Mr. Penn, the inevitable outcome of what they see as his rightward lurch. “Some people are loyal to Republican red, some people to Democratic blue and some capitalism green,” said Philippe Reines, a longtime aide to Mrs. Clinton, who served as her gatekeeper in the Senate and at the State Department. Mr. Penn currently runs the Stagwell Group, a private equity firm, and claims his political career is behind him, even though his firm owns two public affairs agencies that have worked for both Democratic and Republican officials. In an interview with Politico Magazine last year, Mr. Penn said that as a White House adviser during Ken Starr’s investigation into Mr. Clinton, he saw up close the emotional damage that a special counsel can wreak on a president and on a functional White House. And he said he saw little difference in how the investigation affected Mr. Clinton then and Mr. Trump now — even though Mr. Clinton never tweeted the words “Witch Hunt!” “The Clintons didn’t put their emotions on Twitter, but trust me, they had them, and they weren’t particularly different from Trump’s,” he said. Mr. Clinton, for his part, has dismissed his former adviser’s commentary. “He wasn’t invited back into the campaign,” Bill Clinton said in a “PBS NewsHour” interview last summer. “He’s been mad about it, and I think it’s silly.” Mr. Clinton called Mr. Penn’s arguments attacking Mr. Mueller “silly and dangerous.” An earlier version of this article misstated the frequency of appearances of the political strategist Mark J. Penn on MSNBC. He last appeared on the network in September 2017; he was not formally banned.  OpinionMark Penn and Andrew Stein

Supported by White House Memo By Annie Karni WASHINGTON — Mark J. Penn, one of the primary architects of President Bill Clinton’s 1996 re-election campaign, met briefly with President Trump in the Oval Office last week, according to two people in attendance. The face-to-face meeting, the first between Mr. Trump and the onetime loyal adviser to the Clintons, marked what some saw as the inevitable conclusion of Mr. Penn’s long-running political metamorphosis. As Democrats have moved to the left, Mr. Penn, with his centrist politics, has become alienated from a party in which he once reigned as a winning pollster and is a frequent guest on Fox News and the author of op-ed articles criticizing the special counsel’s investigation as a “partisan, open-ended inquisition.” He has even adopted the president’s term “deep state” to describe people he views as Democratic operatives sabotaging the Trump administration from within the government. Mr. Penn arrived at the White House last week with Andrew Stein, a Democrat and former president of the New York City Council, who has known Mr. Trump for decades. Mr. Penn, who was credited with helping to keep Mr. Clinton focused during his impeachment, sat across the Resolute Desk from the president at a moment when Democratic lawmakers are wrestling with whether to begin impeachment proceedings against Mr. Trump as the special counsel’s investigation finally comes to an end. But people in attendance said the meeting was not about politics or impeachment, and was brief. It was scheduled, according to one person who was there, by Mr. Stein. Mr. Penn, who last fall helped write an op-ed article in The Wall Street Journal titled “Hillary Will Run Again,” came along at Mr. Stein’s invitation. In the meeting, Mr. Trump praised Mr. Penn for his commentary on the special counsel’s investigation and pumped him about how to interpret the findings of his public poll, the Harris Poll, which puts the president’s favorability rating at about 45 percent. The three former New Yorkers also spent time discussing Edward I. Koch, the New York mayor who was Mr. Penn’s first client and a longtime nemesis of Mr. Trump’s. The two engaged in heated battles over Mr. Trump’s development projects. Mick Mulvaney, the White House chief of staff, and Kellyanne Conway, the counselor to the president, also attended the meeting, which lasted about 20 minutes. In an email, Mr. Penn played down the significance of the visit. “I tagged along with my friend Andrew Stein at his request to one of his meetings, and for the first time to meet the president,” he said. “I have had hundreds of meetings with presidents and I don’t relay their conversations, but this was a cordial meeting and no advice was given or taken — but old-time politics was discussed.” Mr. Penn added, “Despite my misgivings about the Mueller investigation, let me be clear as a lifelong Democrat under no circumstances would I work paid or unpaid for President Trump nor was this meeting about that in any way.” Reached late Friday night, however, Mr. Stein said he invited Mr. Penn to the meeting specifically to discuss polls with Mr. Trump. Mr. Penn was one of three advisers who helped Mr. Clinton navigate toward the political center when he battling a newly empowered Republican majority in Congress led by Newt Gingrich, then the House speaker. He stuck with the Clintons longer than some of Mr. Clinton’s other political gurus, like Dick Morris and Douglas E. Schoen, who became highly vocal Clinton antagonists. Mr. Penn also helped Mrs. Clinton win a New York Senate seat in 2000. But his fallout with the onetime reigning brand in Democratic politics began during Mrs. Clinton’s 2008 presidential campaign, where he clashed with other advisers and was ultimately removed as the chief strategist. Over the past year, like Mr. Schoen and Mr. Morris, he too has won praise on the other side of the political spectrum as he has become seen as a heretic on the left. Mr. Penn has been praised internally at the White House, and by the president himself, for his fulsome attacks on the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III. In his appearances on Fox News — he last appeared on MSNBC in September 2017 — and in his opinion pieces in the conservative-leaning opinions pages of The Hill, Mr. Penn has accused Mr. Mueller of overreaching in his investigation. But an actual sit-down meeting with the president in the Oval Office was, for some former colleagues of Mr. Penn, the inevitable outcome of what they see as his rightward lurch. “Some people are loyal to Republican red, some people to Democratic blue and some capitalism green,” said Philippe Reines, a longtime aide to Mrs. Clinton, who served as her gatekeeper in the Senate and at the State Department. Mr. Penn currently runs the Stagwell Group, a private equity firm, and claims his political career is behind him, even though his firm owns two public affairs agencies that have worked for both Democratic and Republican officials. In an interview with Politico Magazine last year, Mr. Penn said that as a White House adviser during Ken Starr’s investigation into Mr. Clinton, he saw up close the emotional damage that a special counsel can wreak on a president and on a functional White House. And he said he saw little difference in how the investigation affected Mr. Clinton then and Mr. Trump now — even though Mr. Clinton never tweeted the words “Witch Hunt!” “The Clintons didn’t put their emotions on Twitter, but trust me, they had them, and they weren’t particularly different from Trump’s,” he said. Mr. Clinton, for his part, has dismissed his former adviser’s commentary. “He wasn’t invited back into the campaign,” Bill Clinton said in a “PBS NewsHour” interview last summer. “He’s been mad about it, and I think it’s silly.” Mr. Clinton called Mr. Penn’s arguments attacking Mr. Mueller “silly and dangerous.” An earlier version of this article misstated the frequency of appearances of the political strategist Mark J. Penn on MSNBC. He last appeared on the network in September 2017; he was not formally banned.  OpinionMark Penn and Andrew SteinSupported by The attorney general said he is concerned about potentially unlawful surveillance of the Trump campaign. In 1992, he oversaw a program that may have done exactly that to other Americans. By The Editorial Board The editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section. The attorney general of the United States has concerns about illegal government spying.  At a Senate hearing on Wednesday, William Barr confirmed that he will look into whether the Trump campaign was subject to unlawful surveillance in the run-up to the 2016 election. The Justice Department’s inspector general, Michael Horowitz, is already investigating the matter, and Mr. Barr says the review is nearly done.  But instead of letting his watchdog finish his work, Mr. Barr would rather look into the matter himself. “Yes, I think spying did occur,” Mr. Barr said early in the hearing, later amending the record to clarify that he was “not saying that improper surveillance occurred.” “I am saying that I am concerned about it and looking into it. That is all,” he added. Before day’s end, Fox News was amplifying the attorney general’s worries, which the president then shared on Twitter. Whatever comes of Mr. Barr’s review and the conspiracy theories that ensue, he would be wise to reflect on his own history with government surveillance that stretched the limits of the law. Just last month, Mr. Horowitz’s office concluded that the Justice Department and the Drug Enforcement Administration “failed to conduct a comprehensive legal analysis” when the two agencies undertook a secret surveillance program in the 1990s that swept up records of Americans’ phone calls — the kind of bulk collection that the National Security Agency later engaged in after 9/11. The D.E.A. program dates back to 1992, when Mr. Barr first led the Justice Department under President George H.W. Bush. Relying on so-called administrative subpoenas, the D.E.A. would go on fishing expeditions, vacuuming up metadata from billions of phone calls to more than 100 countries, according to a 2015 USA Today investigation. The inspector general’s office found it “troubling” that the government’s collection entailed a “uniquely expansive” reading of the law; under the program, officials would issue subpoenas for records without first determining that they were “relevant or material” to a specific investigation, as the law requires. The inspector general also suggested that the D.E.A. abused its authority because the records were then shared with other federal agencies that had nothing to do with drug enforcement. One thing the inspector general report makes clear: Mr. Barr was in charge as this program came into being and “provided approval” for its deployment without appropriate legal review. In the future, if Mr. Barr wants to move forward with a similar bulk-collection program, “the Department should conduct a rigorous, objective legal analysis, memorialized in writing, in advance of initiating such a program,” the report said. Words to ponder as the attorney general, now in his second tour leading the Justice Department, expresses concern over the reach of government surveillance. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported by The attorney general said he is concerned about potentially unlawful surveillance of the Trump campaign. In 1992, he oversaw a program that may have done exactly that to other Americans. By The Editorial Board The editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section. The attorney general of the United States has concerns about illegal government spying.  At a Senate hearing on Wednesday, William Barr confirmed that he will look into whether the Trump campaign was subject to unlawful surveillance in the run-up to the 2016 election. The Justice Department’s inspector general, Michael Horowitz, is already investigating the matter, and Mr. Barr says the review is nearly done.  But instead of letting his watchdog finish his work, Mr. Barr would rather look into the matter himself. “Yes, I think spying did occur,” Mr. Barr said early in the hearing, later amending the record to clarify that he was “not saying that improper surveillance occurred.” “I am saying that I am concerned about it and looking into it. That is all,” he added. Before day’s end, Fox News was amplifying the attorney general’s worries, which the president then shared on Twitter. Whatever comes of Mr. Barr’s review and the conspiracy theories that ensue, he would be wise to reflect on his own history with government surveillance that stretched the limits of the law. Just last month, Mr. Horowitz’s office concluded that the Justice Department and the Drug Enforcement Administration “failed to conduct a comprehensive legal analysis” when the two agencies undertook a secret surveillance program in the 1990s that swept up records of Americans’ phone calls — the kind of bulk collection that the National Security Agency later engaged in after 9/11. The D.E.A. program dates back to 1992, when Mr. Barr first led the Justice Department under President George H.W. Bush. Relying on so-called administrative subpoenas, the D.E.A. would go on fishing expeditions, vacuuming up metadata from billions of phone calls to more than 100 countries, according to a 2015 USA Today investigation. The inspector general’s office found it “troubling” that the government’s collection entailed a “uniquely expansive” reading of the law; under the program, officials would issue subpoenas for records without first determining that they were “relevant or material” to a specific investigation, as the law requires. The inspector general also suggested that the D.E.A. abused its authority because the records were then shared with other federal agencies that had nothing to do with drug enforcement. One thing the inspector general report makes clear: Mr. Barr was in charge as this program came into being and “provided approval” for its deployment without appropriate legal review. In the future, if Mr. Barr wants to move forward with a similar bulk-collection program, “the Department should conduct a rigorous, objective legal analysis, memorialized in writing, in advance of initiating such a program,” the report said. Words to ponder as the attorney general, now in his second tour leading the Justice Department, expresses concern over the reach of government surveillance. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Supported by By Maggie Haberman and Ken Belson WASHINGTON — President Trump has told aides that he wants his embattled friend, Robert K. Kraft, the owner of the New England Patriots, to be part of a celebration at the White House of the team’s victory in the Super Bowl, ignoring concerns about Mr. Kraft’s recent  charges of soliciting prostitution. Mr. Trump has brushed aside worries about any negative effect that Mr. Kraft’s presence at an official event could have, according to people close to the president. His desire to have his friend on hand dismayed but did not surprise them, because they said they believe he has recently been inclined to ignore external criticism. The president’s views were first reported by Politico. Mr. Trump has often chosen to publicly support business allies or friends when they have faced scandal or accusations of impropriety. For instance, he spoke fondly of Roger E. Ailes, the head of Fox News, after he was fired over accusations of sexual harassment. The charges against Mr. Kraft came after the police in January used video surveillance to observe activity inside several day spas and massage parlors, including one in Jupiter, Fla. The police said that the parlors had been used for prostitution and that many of the women involved were considered to be victims. Mr. Kraft has pleaded not guilty, and has not accepted a deal from prosecutors to drop the two misdemeanor charges in return for completing community service, paying a fine and admitting guilt. “He’s proclaimed his innocence totally,” Mr. Trump has said about Mr. Kraft, who has been a friend for many years. The Patriots have won six Super Bowl titles since 2002, two of them since Mr. Trump became president, and the team has visited the White House after each victory. Mr. Kraft has accompanied the team on its first five visits. But in 2017, after the Patriots beat the Atlanta Falcons for their fifth title, the team’s star quarterback, Tom Brady — along with many of his teammates — chose not to accompany the team to the White House. A total of 34 players attended, which was down from 50 in 2015, when President Barack Obama hosted the team, but similar to the number of players who visited during the second and third visits during the Bush administration. A team spokesman said one reason fewer players showed up in 2017 is that some veteran players did not see the need to go twice in three years. The planning for this year’s visit has only just begun. In past years, the team has visited in mid-April, soon after the players report for voluntary workouts. This allows the maximum number of players to attend. The team proposed four dates to the White House, including April 16. Once a date is agreed on, the Patriots will then determine how many team executives and players can attend.   

Supported by By Maggie Haberman and Ken Belson WASHINGTON — President Trump has told aides that he wants his embattled friend, Robert K. Kraft, the owner of the New England Patriots, to be part of a celebration at the White House of the team’s victory in the Super Bowl, ignoring concerns about Mr. Kraft’s recent  charges of soliciting prostitution. Mr. Trump has brushed aside worries about any negative effect that Mr. Kraft’s presence at an official event could have, according to people close to the president. His desire to have his friend on hand dismayed but did not surprise them, because they said they believe he has recently been inclined to ignore external criticism. The president’s views were first reported by Politico. Mr. Trump has often chosen to publicly support business allies or friends when they have faced scandal or accusations of impropriety. For instance, he spoke fondly of Roger E. Ailes, the head of Fox News, after he was fired over accusations of sexual harassment. The charges against Mr. Kraft came after the police in January used video surveillance to observe activity inside several day spas and massage parlors, including one in Jupiter, Fla. The police said that the parlors had been used for prostitution and that many of the women involved were considered to be victims. Mr. Kraft has pleaded not guilty, and has not accepted a deal from prosecutors to drop the two misdemeanor charges in return for completing community service, paying a fine and admitting guilt. “He’s proclaimed his innocence totally,” Mr. Trump has said about Mr. Kraft, who has been a friend for many years. The Patriots have won six Super Bowl titles since 2002, two of them since Mr. Trump became president, and the team has visited the White House after each victory. Mr. Kraft has accompanied the team on its first five visits. But in 2017, after the Patriots beat the Atlanta Falcons for their fifth title, the team’s star quarterback, Tom Brady — along with many of his teammates — chose not to accompany the team to the White House. A total of 34 players attended, which was down from 50 in 2015, when President Barack Obama hosted the team, but similar to the number of players who visited during the second and third visits during the Bush administration. A team spokesman said one reason fewer players showed up in 2017 is that some veteran players did not see the need to go twice in three years. The planning for this year’s visit has only just begun. In past years, the team has visited in mid-April, soon after the players report for voluntary workouts. This allows the maximum number of players to attend. The team proposed four dates to the White House, including April 16. Once a date is agreed on, the Patriots will then determine how many team executives and players can attend.   Supported by Best of Late Night By Giovanni Russonello Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox. Investigators for Robert Mueller, the special counsel, have said that Attorney General William Barr did not adequately portray the findings of their report into Russian interference in the 2016 election. They have said that the report is more damaging to President Trump than Barr’s four-page letter suggested. Stephen Colbert made fun of Barr’s brief recap, which said Mueller had concluded that Trump had not conspired with Russia. “Now, Billy Barr said that Mueller cleared the Trump campaign of any coordination with Russia, and Barr himself concluded that the president did not obstruct justice. He did this by taking the almost 400-page Mueller report and summarizing it in just three and a half pages. That’s like tuning in to see the new season of ‘Game of Thrones’ and it’s just Barr holding a sign that says, ‘Dragons did some stuff. The end.’” — STEPHEN COLBERT Then Colbert moved on to discussing Trump’s fondness for Herman Cain, the former pizza executive and onetime presidential candidate, whom Trump said he wants to nominate for the Federal Reserve Board. “Most of Herman Cain’s business experience comes from running a pizza chain. Evidently Trump thinks ‘Fed’ is short for ‘fettuccine.’” — STEPHEN COLBERT “A meat plant in New Hampshire is recalling more than 2,600 pounds of sausage products because they’re afraid the meat could contain metal. Even worse, it may contain whatever it is that’s normally in a sausage.” — JAMES CORDEN “A man from Lithuania is facing legal problems after it was discovered that he convinced Google and Facebook to pay fake invoices to fake companies. In total he got them to pay — get this — $122 million. Yes. Also, now Facebook and Google suddenly have a problem with fake news.” — JAMES CORDEN “A Dominican singer attempted to break a Guinness world record recently by performing for over 100 consecutive hours. ‘Big deal, try performing for 14 years,’ said Melania.” — SETH MEYERS, referring to first lady Melania Trump Aunt Chippy and Guillermo got pranked into riding a 12-story zip line. With a feud brewing between Tucker Carlson of Fox News and Chris Hayes of MSNBC, Desus Nice and the Kid Mero were quick to side with Hayes, a fellow Bronx native. Nipsey Hussle, the Los Angeles rapper who was killed last week, was part of a cohort of young artists who are choosing to stay invested in their local communities, even as they chase national stardom. Plus, Ideas for What to Watch Tonight: The 50 Best Movies on Netflix Right Now The 25 Best Films of the 21st Century The Best Movies on Amazon Prime Video Right Now An earlier version of this article misattributed a quote about a man from Lithuania. It was by James Corden, not Seth Meyers.

Supported by Best of Late Night By Giovanni Russonello Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox. Investigators for Robert Mueller, the special counsel, have said that Attorney General William Barr did not adequately portray the findings of their report into Russian interference in the 2016 election. They have said that the report is more damaging to President Trump than Barr’s four-page letter suggested. Stephen Colbert made fun of Barr’s brief recap, which said Mueller had concluded that Trump had not conspired with Russia. “Now, Billy Barr said that Mueller cleared the Trump campaign of any coordination with Russia, and Barr himself concluded that the president did not obstruct justice. He did this by taking the almost 400-page Mueller report and summarizing it in just three and a half pages. That’s like tuning in to see the new season of ‘Game of Thrones’ and it’s just Barr holding a sign that says, ‘Dragons did some stuff. The end.’” — STEPHEN COLBERT Then Colbert moved on to discussing Trump’s fondness for Herman Cain, the former pizza executive and onetime presidential candidate, whom Trump said he wants to nominate for the Federal Reserve Board. “Most of Herman Cain’s business experience comes from running a pizza chain. Evidently Trump thinks ‘Fed’ is short for ‘fettuccine.’” — STEPHEN COLBERT “A meat plant in New Hampshire is recalling more than 2,600 pounds of sausage products because they’re afraid the meat could contain metal. Even worse, it may contain whatever it is that’s normally in a sausage.” — JAMES CORDEN “A man from Lithuania is facing legal problems after it was discovered that he convinced Google and Facebook to pay fake invoices to fake companies. In total he got them to pay — get this — $122 million. Yes. Also, now Facebook and Google suddenly have a problem with fake news.” — JAMES CORDEN “A Dominican singer attempted to break a Guinness world record recently by performing for over 100 consecutive hours. ‘Big deal, try performing for 14 years,’ said Melania.” — SETH MEYERS, referring to first lady Melania Trump Aunt Chippy and Guillermo got pranked into riding a 12-story zip line. With a feud brewing between Tucker Carlson of Fox News and Chris Hayes of MSNBC, Desus Nice and the Kid Mero were quick to side with Hayes, a fellow Bronx native. Nipsey Hussle, the Los Angeles rapper who was killed last week, was part of a cohort of young artists who are choosing to stay invested in their local communities, even as they chase national stardom. Plus, Ideas for What to Watch Tonight: The 50 Best Movies on Netflix Right Now The 25 Best Films of the 21st Century The Best Movies on Amazon Prime Video Right Now An earlier version of this article misattributed a quote about a man from Lithuania. It was by James Corden, not Seth Meyers.Supported by By Sheryl Gay Stolberg WASHINGTON — When President Trump tweeted an edited video portraying Representative Ilhan Omar as playing down the 9/11 attacks, it took less than three hours for Senator Bernie Sanders to rush to her defense and declare her “a leader with strength and courage.” But when a Fox News anchor described Mr. Sanders on Monday night as “a staunch supporter” of Ms. Omar, the senator balked. “Hold it, hold it, hold it,” Mr. Sanders insisted. “I’ve talked to Ilhan about twice in my life.” His reaction reflects the broader Democratic Party’s conflicted embrace of Ms. Omar. That struggle has especially been apparent in the House, where Jewish Democrats have tangled with Ms. Omar and Democratic leaders have grappled with how to handle the freshman Democrat from Minnesota, who is one of the first two Muslim women elected to Congress. When Ms. Omar, 36, pushed for a House rules change to permit her to wear her hijab on the House floor, she was heralded as a powerful symbol of the Democratic Party’s inclusiveness. But her support of the boycott Israel movement and her attacks on supporters of Israel have made her a complicated figure to defend. Democratic leaders, as well as many in the rank and file, are choosing their words with caution. Speaker Nancy Pelosi denounced the president for invoking the “painful images of 9/11 for a political attack” without mentioning Ms. Omar, and waited until Sunday — two days after Mr. Trump’s tweet — to issue a statement saying she had asked the Capitol Police to assess the congresswoman’s safety. Representative Steny H. Hoyer, the House Democratic leader, waited three days before calling on the president to apologize to Ms. Omar. “They put us in photos when they want to show our party is diverse,” Representative Rashida Tlaib, Democrat of Michigan and the only other Muslim woman in Congress, wrote on Twitter, responding to someone who complained about Ms. Omar’s “lack of support” from the Democratic leadership. “However, when we ask to be at the table, or speak up about issues that impact who we are, what we fight for & why we ran in the first place, we are ignored. To truly honor our diversity is to never silence us.” In many respects, Ms. Omar, a Somali refugee whose family received asylum in the United States when she was a teenager, represents a new direction for the Democratic Party. Her allies on the left argue that Mr. Trump’s war with Ms. Omar is a defining issue for the party. “This is a proxy for who counts as an American and who doesn’t, and that is a fight that the Democratic Party needs to be leading on,” said Waleed Shahid, a spokesman for Justice Democrats, a liberal advocacy group that helped elect Ms. Omar. “The Democratic Party can’t run away from the fight regarding Ilhan Omar, because she represents the country. In the story between Make America Great Again or the new America we are becoming, she is a pivotal character.” Mr. Trump appears to agree. Using Ms. Omar as his foil, he and his team are deploying the same anti-immigrant, anti-Muslim messaging for the 2020 re-election campaign that they used to ride to the White House in 2016. The congresswoman has said she has “experienced an increase in direct threats on my life” since the president’s tweet on Friday. “This is endangering lives,” she said in a statement on Sunday night. “It has to stop.” But centrist Democrats have a more complex relationship with Ms. Omar. Her leftist brand of politics does not go over well in the swing districts that delivered Democrats the House majority. Her views on Israel make many Jews — an important component of the Democratic base — deeply uneasy. And her insinuations that American policy toward the Jewish state is driven by money — “It’s all about the Benjamins baby,” she wrote on Twitter — have drawn charges of anti-Semitism, prompting her to apologize. So while Ms. Omar’s more moderate colleagues have denounced the threats against her, they have been tepid in their remarks. Representative Josh Gottheimer, a centrist Democrat from New Jersey and strong supporter of Israel, spoke carefully when asked about Ms. Omar. “The response to different points of view in our country must never be threats of physical harm or violence,” he said. But if the party is conflicted about Ms. Omar, it is not reflected in the fund-raising report she filed this week with the Federal Election Commission. During the first quarter of 2019, she raised $832,000, roughly half of which was from donors giving under $200. Over all, Ms. Omar took in nearly twice the median amount raised by incumbents who are in races rated a tossup by the nonpartisan Cook Political Report, according to Michael Beckel, who analyzes money in politics for Issue One, a bipartisan group that advocates election overhaul. The current controversy around Ms. Omar stems from remarks she made to the Council on American-Islamic Relations, or CAIR, describing how the group was founded after the Sept. 11 attacks “because they recognized that some people did something and that all of us were starting to lose access to our civil liberties.” (The group was actually founded in 1994.) Last Tuesday, Representative Daniel Crenshaw, a freshman Republican from Texas, seized on the “some people did something” phrase, and posted a tweet suggesting Ms. Omar was minimizing the attacks. Conservative news outlets — including The New York Post and Fox’s “Fox & Friends,” Mr. Trump’s favorite television program — picked up on it. On Friday, Mr. Trump tweeted the edited video, which interspersed graphic images of the burning World Trade Center towers with a clip from Ms. Omar’s speech. In an interview on Tuesday with CNN, Ms. Pelosi rejected the notion that Ms. Omar was anti-Semitic, and expressed concern for her well being, but she said she had not spoken to the congresswoman about the CAIR speech. “I don’t even know what was said,” Ms. Pelosi said. “But I do know what the president did was not right.” Democratic presidential candidates have had their own complicated reactions. Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, Democrat of New York, has cast herself as a progressive on the campaign trail. But she qualified her support for Ms. Omar, by saying, “As a senator who represents 9/11 victims, I can’t accept any minimizing of that pain.” Even Mr. Sanders, who hails from the same liberal wing of the party as Ms. Omar — and would be the country’s first Jewish president if elected — offered a mixed response. Speaking at a town hall-style meeting televised by the Fox News Channel on Monday night, he said he respected Ms. Omar. And while he said he does not believe she is anti-Semitic, he added, “I think Ilhan has got to do a better job in speaking to the Jewish community.” Ms. Omar’s supporters say there is a danger to the Democratic split. “Some of these institutional Democratic leaders can’t find, frankly, the spine to speak up quickly and strongly in defense of one of their colleagues,” said Zahra Billoo, a spokeswoman for CAIR. “If we don’t find alignment soon, knowing that Donald Trump is already passing Democratic candidates in his own fund-raising, I worry that we are looking at a second term because the leaders of our party did not do the right thing.” Follow Sheryl Gay Stolberg on Twitter: @SherylNYT.   

Supported by By Sheryl Gay Stolberg WASHINGTON — When President Trump tweeted an edited video portraying Representative Ilhan Omar as playing down the 9/11 attacks, it took less than three hours for Senator Bernie Sanders to rush to her defense and declare her “a leader with strength and courage.” But when a Fox News anchor described Mr. Sanders on Monday night as “a staunch supporter” of Ms. Omar, the senator balked. “Hold it, hold it, hold it,” Mr. Sanders insisted. “I’ve talked to Ilhan about twice in my life.” His reaction reflects the broader Democratic Party’s conflicted embrace of Ms. Omar. That struggle has especially been apparent in the House, where Jewish Democrats have tangled with Ms. Omar and Democratic leaders have grappled with how to handle the freshman Democrat from Minnesota, who is one of the first two Muslim women elected to Congress. When Ms. Omar, 36, pushed for a House rules change to permit her to wear her hijab on the House floor, she was heralded as a powerful symbol of the Democratic Party’s inclusiveness. But her support of the boycott Israel movement and her attacks on supporters of Israel have made her a complicated figure to defend. Democratic leaders, as well as many in the rank and file, are choosing their words with caution. Speaker Nancy Pelosi denounced the president for invoking the “painful images of 9/11 for a political attack” without mentioning Ms. Omar, and waited until Sunday — two days after Mr. Trump’s tweet — to issue a statement saying she had asked the Capitol Police to assess the congresswoman’s safety. Representative Steny H. Hoyer, the House Democratic leader, waited three days before calling on the president to apologize to Ms. Omar. “They put us in photos when they want to show our party is diverse,” Representative Rashida Tlaib, Democrat of Michigan and the only other Muslim woman in Congress, wrote on Twitter, responding to someone who complained about Ms. Omar’s “lack of support” from the Democratic leadership. “However, when we ask to be at the table, or speak up about issues that impact who we are, what we fight for & why we ran in the first place, we are ignored. To truly honor our diversity is to never silence us.” In many respects, Ms. Omar, a Somali refugee whose family received asylum in the United States when she was a teenager, represents a new direction for the Democratic Party. Her allies on the left argue that Mr. Trump’s war with Ms. Omar is a defining issue for the party. “This is a proxy for who counts as an American and who doesn’t, and that is a fight that the Democratic Party needs to be leading on,” said Waleed Shahid, a spokesman for Justice Democrats, a liberal advocacy group that helped elect Ms. Omar. “The Democratic Party can’t run away from the fight regarding Ilhan Omar, because she represents the country. In the story between Make America Great Again or the new America we are becoming, she is a pivotal character.” Mr. Trump appears to agree. Using Ms. Omar as his foil, he and his team are deploying the same anti-immigrant, anti-Muslim messaging for the 2020 re-election campaign that they used to ride to the White House in 2016. The congresswoman has said she has “experienced an increase in direct threats on my life” since the president’s tweet on Friday. “This is endangering lives,” she said in a statement on Sunday night. “It has to stop.” But centrist Democrats have a more complex relationship with Ms. Omar. Her leftist brand of politics does not go over well in the swing districts that delivered Democrats the House majority. Her views on Israel make many Jews — an important component of the Democratic base — deeply uneasy. And her insinuations that American policy toward the Jewish state is driven by money — “It’s all about the Benjamins baby,” she wrote on Twitter — have drawn charges of anti-Semitism, prompting her to apologize. So while Ms. Omar’s more moderate colleagues have denounced the threats against her, they have been tepid in their remarks. Representative Josh Gottheimer, a centrist Democrat from New Jersey and strong supporter of Israel, spoke carefully when asked about Ms. Omar. “The response to different points of view in our country must never be threats of physical harm or violence,” he said. But if the party is conflicted about Ms. Omar, it is not reflected in the fund-raising report she filed this week with the Federal Election Commission. During the first quarter of 2019, she raised $832,000, roughly half of which was from donors giving under $200. Over all, Ms. Omar took in nearly twice the median amount raised by incumbents who are in races rated a tossup by the nonpartisan Cook Political Report, according to Michael Beckel, who analyzes money in politics for Issue One, a bipartisan group that advocates election overhaul. The current controversy around Ms. Omar stems from remarks she made to the Council on American-Islamic Relations, or CAIR, describing how the group was founded after the Sept. 11 attacks “because they recognized that some people did something and that all of us were starting to lose access to our civil liberties.” (The group was actually founded in 1994.) Last Tuesday, Representative Daniel Crenshaw, a freshman Republican from Texas, seized on the “some people did something” phrase, and posted a tweet suggesting Ms. Omar was minimizing the attacks. Conservative news outlets — including The New York Post and Fox’s “Fox & Friends,” Mr. Trump’s favorite television program — picked up on it. On Friday, Mr. Trump tweeted the edited video, which interspersed graphic images of the burning World Trade Center towers with a clip from Ms. Omar’s speech. In an interview on Tuesday with CNN, Ms. Pelosi rejected the notion that Ms. Omar was anti-Semitic, and expressed concern for her well being, but she said she had not spoken to the congresswoman about the CAIR speech. “I don’t even know what was said,” Ms. Pelosi said. “But I do know what the president did was not right.” Democratic presidential candidates have had their own complicated reactions. Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, Democrat of New York, has cast herself as a progressive on the campaign trail. But she qualified her support for Ms. Omar, by saying, “As a senator who represents 9/11 victims, I can’t accept any minimizing of that pain.” Even Mr. Sanders, who hails from the same liberal wing of the party as Ms. Omar — and would be the country’s first Jewish president if elected — offered a mixed response. Speaking at a town hall-style meeting televised by the Fox News Channel on Monday night, he said he respected Ms. Omar. And while he said he does not believe she is anti-Semitic, he added, “I think Ilhan has got to do a better job in speaking to the Jewish community.” Ms. Omar’s supporters say there is a danger to the Democratic split. “Some of these institutional Democratic leaders can’t find, frankly, the spine to speak up quickly and strongly in defense of one of their colleagues,” said Zahra Billoo, a spokeswoman for CAIR. “If we don’t find alignment soon, knowing that Donald Trump is already passing Democratic candidates in his own fund-raising, I worry that we are looking at a second term because the leaders of our party did not do the right thing.” Follow Sheryl Gay Stolberg on Twitter: @SherylNYT.   Supported by Good Monday morning. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today. _____________________ • Support for legal recreational marijuana has become a unifying policy in the 2020 Democratic primary. But it’s not an appeal to the stoner vote — the issue is a litmus test for candidates’ commitment to equal treatment for all races in criminal justice. • Tucked between St. Patrick’s Day greetings and criticism of “Saturday Night Live,” President Trump demonstrated that not even death provides a respite from his wrath on Twitter, as he unleashed attacks on the recently deceased Senator John McCain. • Who is Cindy Yang? She once owned the Florida massage parlor where the owner of the New England Patriots was arrested in a prostitution sting. She was active in groups backed by the Chinese government. She promised rich Chinese clients access to the social scene around Mr. Trump. And, a Times investigation has found, she raised over $50,000 in donations for the president. • The Trump administration’s aggressive campaign to prevent countries from using Huawei and other Chinese telecommunications equipment in their next-generation wireless networks has faltered, with some of America’s closest allies rejecting the argument that the companies pose a security threat. • Of the last five Democratic presidents, only Lyndon Johnson was older than 52 when he was first elected president. That would seem to favor Beto O’Rourke, who is 46. But, considering the popularity of the 77-year-old Bernie Sanders among young voters, do Democrats still care about age? • For politicians, the word “antitrust” has been dangerous territory since at least the Reagan administration. But with Senator Elizabeth Warren’s proposal to break up giant tech companies, it’s clear the political winds have shifted. • With a record number of women running for president, some male Democratic candidates say they would like to see a woman on the 2020 ticket — just not at the top. • The National Emergencies Act of 1976 was enacted by Congress in the post-Watergate era to rein in presidential power. Instead, it has provided Mr. Trump with a route to expand executive authority — in defiance of Congress. • Two veterans’ groups have begun working together to persuade Congress to revoke authorizations of military force passed after Sept. 11, 2001, which they believe have been stretched to justify wars far beyond their intentions. • Fox News removed Jeanine Pirro’s program from its usual 9 p.m. time slot on Saturday, one week after the network publicly rebuked the host for an on-air monologue that questioned a Muslim lawmaker’s loyalty to the United States. Mr. Trump, the network’s most high-profile fan, was not thrilled about the change. _____________________ Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.

Supported by Good Monday morning. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today. _____________________ • Support for legal recreational marijuana has become a unifying policy in the 2020 Democratic primary. But it’s not an appeal to the stoner vote — the issue is a litmus test for candidates’ commitment to equal treatment for all races in criminal justice. • Tucked between St. Patrick’s Day greetings and criticism of “Saturday Night Live,” President Trump demonstrated that not even death provides a respite from his wrath on Twitter, as he unleashed attacks on the recently deceased Senator John McCain. • Who is Cindy Yang? She once owned the Florida massage parlor where the owner of the New England Patriots was arrested in a prostitution sting. She was active in groups backed by the Chinese government. She promised rich Chinese clients access to the social scene around Mr. Trump. And, a Times investigation has found, she raised over $50,000 in donations for the president. • The Trump administration’s aggressive campaign to prevent countries from using Huawei and other Chinese telecommunications equipment in their next-generation wireless networks has faltered, with some of America’s closest allies rejecting the argument that the companies pose a security threat. • Of the last five Democratic presidents, only Lyndon Johnson was older than 52 when he was first elected president. That would seem to favor Beto O’Rourke, who is 46. But, considering the popularity of the 77-year-old Bernie Sanders among young voters, do Democrats still care about age? • For politicians, the word “antitrust” has been dangerous territory since at least the Reagan administration. But with Senator Elizabeth Warren’s proposal to break up giant tech companies, it’s clear the political winds have shifted. • With a record number of women running for president, some male Democratic candidates say they would like to see a woman on the 2020 ticket — just not at the top. • The National Emergencies Act of 1976 was enacted by Congress in the post-Watergate era to rein in presidential power. Instead, it has provided Mr. Trump with a route to expand executive authority — in defiance of Congress. • Two veterans’ groups have begun working together to persuade Congress to revoke authorizations of military force passed after Sept. 11, 2001, which they believe have been stretched to justify wars far beyond their intentions. • Fox News removed Jeanine Pirro’s program from its usual 9 p.m. time slot on Saturday, one week after the network publicly rebuked the host for an on-air monologue that questioned a Muslim lawmaker’s loyalty to the United States. Mr. Trump, the network’s most high-profile fan, was not thrilled about the change. _____________________ Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.Supported by The Fox News host amplifies a debate the right needs to have. By Ross Douthat Opinion Columnist The most interesting thing in conservative politics right now is not the government shutdown and Donald Trump’s flailing attempt to claim victory while being defeated on all fronts. Instead it’s an ideological battle over Tucker Carlson’s recent Fox News soliloquy, in which he accused his fellow Republicans of building an anti-family, finance-dominated economic system that might be “the enemy of a healthy society.” Carlson’s monologue was an expansion of themes that have dominated his reinvention as a Trump-era populist — the general folly of elites, the unwisdom of the bipartisan consensus on immigration and foreign policy, the failure of Republican leaders to defend the national interest. But in expanding on those themes he went somewhere that Fox hosts rarely go — from culture into economics, from a critique of liberal cosmopolitanism into a critique of libertarianism, from a lament for the decline of the family to an argument that this decline can be laid at the feet of consumer capitalism as well as social liberalism. [Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.] Just about every conservative worth reading was provoked into responding. One set of responses accused Carlson of a kind of conspiratorial socialism, which exaggerates economic misery, ignores capitalism’s fruits, and encourages ordinary people to blame shadowy elites instead of cultivating personal responsibility. The other group basically said, no, Tucker has a point — the point being that market economies are inevitably shaped by public policy, that policies championed by both parties have failed to promote the interests of the working class, and that social conservatives especially need a framework of political economy to promote the institutions — family, work, neighborhood — upon which civil society depends. If there is to be a healthy American right, after Donald Trump or ever, this is the argument that conservatives should be having. And it is especially an argument that Fox News should be highlighting, since Fox is frequently responsible for stoking populism but keeping it vacuous or racialized, evading the debates the right really needs. Now let me attempt my own quick contribution. A key issue in the Carlson contretemps is distilled in this line from David French of National Review, one of the monologue’s critics: “There are wounds that public policy can’t heal.” This is a crucial conservative insight, a caution for policymakers everywhere — but it can also become a trap, a cul-de-sac, an excuse for doing nothing. And that has happened too often for conservatives in recent decades: They’ve leaped to despair without even trying policy. Let me give three examples. Modern conservatism was forged in the crucible of the 1970s inflation crisis, and in the aftermath of the 2008 financial crash many conservatives were convinced that there was nothing the Federal Reserve could do about the vast army of the unemployed without touching off a similar inflationary spiral. But in hindsight this was wrong, the feared inflation never came, and the economic recovery was slowed because of the Republican fixation on tight money. Of course, in the Trump era some Republicans have conveniently become dovish on inflation. But in the preceding eight years, wage-earning Americans suffered unnecessarily because of a wrongheaded right-wing counsel of despair. A second example: While it’s true that family breakdown has deep and tangled roots, it’s also true that in the 1940s and 1950s, a mix of government policy, union strength and conservative gender norms established a “family wage” — an income level that enabled a single breadwinner to support a family. Maybe it isn’t possible to recreate a family wage for a less unionized and more feminist age — but are we sure? Is there really nothing conservatives can do to address the costs of child care, the unfulfilled parental desire to shift to part-time work, the problem that a slightly more reactionary iteration of Elizabeth Warren once dubbed “the two-income trap”? If marriages and intact families and birthrates declined as the family wage crumbled, perhaps we should try rebuilding that economic foundation before we declare the crisis of the family a wound that policy can’t heal. A final example: Historically conservatism has been proudly paternalist, favorable to forms of censorship and prohibition for the sake of protecting precisely the private virtues that Carlson’s critics think government can’t cultivate. But in recent decades, the right’s elites have despaired of censoring pornography, acquiesced to the spread of casino gambling, made peace with the creeping commercialization of marijuana, and accepted the internet’s conquest of childhood and adolescence. Yet none of these trends actually seem entirely beyond the influence of regulation. It’s just that conservatism has given up — once again, in unwarranted despair — on earlier assumptions about how public paternalism can encourage private virtue. The deeper point here is that public policy is rarely a cure-all, but it can often be a corrective. And the part of Carlson’s monologue his critics should especially ponder is the end, when he suggests that absent a corrective that "protects normal families," even the normal will eventually turn to socialism — choosing a left-wing overcorrection over a right that just says, Well, you see, we already cut corporate taxes, so there's nothing we can do. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTOpinion) and Instagram, join the Facebook political discussion group, Voting While Female. Ross Douthat has been an Opinion columnist for The Times since 2009. He is the author of several books, most recently, “To Change the Church: Pope Francis and the Future of Catholicism.”
You can follow him on Twitter:  @DouthatNYT  You can follow him on Twitter:  @DouthatNYT 

Supported by The Fox News host amplifies a debate the right needs to have. By Ross Douthat Opinion Columnist The most interesting thing in conservative politics right now is not the government shutdown and Donald Trump’s flailing attempt to claim victory while being defeated on all fronts. Instead it’s an ideological battle over Tucker Carlson’s recent Fox News soliloquy, in which he accused his fellow Republicans of building an anti-family, finance-dominated economic system that might be “the enemy of a healthy society.” Carlson’s monologue was an expansion of themes that have dominated his reinvention as a Trump-era populist — the general folly of elites, the unwisdom of the bipartisan consensus on immigration and foreign policy, the failure of Republican leaders to defend the national interest. But in expanding on those themes he went somewhere that Fox hosts rarely go — from culture into economics, from a critique of liberal cosmopolitanism into a critique of libertarianism, from a lament for the decline of the family to an argument that this decline can be laid at the feet of consumer capitalism as well as social liberalism. [Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.] Just about every conservative worth reading was provoked into responding. One set of responses accused Carlson of a kind of conspiratorial socialism, which exaggerates economic misery, ignores capitalism’s fruits, and encourages ordinary people to blame shadowy elites instead of cultivating personal responsibility. The other group basically said, no, Tucker has a point — the point being that market economies are inevitably shaped by public policy, that policies championed by both parties have failed to promote the interests of the working class, and that social conservatives especially need a framework of political economy to promote the institutions — family, work, neighborhood — upon which civil society depends. If there is to be a healthy American right, after Donald Trump or ever, this is the argument that conservatives should be having. And it is especially an argument that Fox News should be highlighting, since Fox is frequently responsible for stoking populism but keeping it vacuous or racialized, evading the debates the right really needs. Now let me attempt my own quick contribution. A key issue in the Carlson contretemps is distilled in this line from David French of National Review, one of the monologue’s critics: “There are wounds that public policy can’t heal.” This is a crucial conservative insight, a caution for policymakers everywhere — but it can also become a trap, a cul-de-sac, an excuse for doing nothing. And that has happened too often for conservatives in recent decades: They’ve leaped to despair without even trying policy. Let me give three examples. Modern conservatism was forged in the crucible of the 1970s inflation crisis, and in the aftermath of the 2008 financial crash many conservatives were convinced that there was nothing the Federal Reserve could do about the vast army of the unemployed without touching off a similar inflationary spiral. But in hindsight this was wrong, the feared inflation never came, and the economic recovery was slowed because of the Republican fixation on tight money. Of course, in the Trump era some Republicans have conveniently become dovish on inflation. But in the preceding eight years, wage-earning Americans suffered unnecessarily because of a wrongheaded right-wing counsel of despair. A second example: While it’s true that family breakdown has deep and tangled roots, it’s also true that in the 1940s and 1950s, a mix of government policy, union strength and conservative gender norms established a “family wage” — an income level that enabled a single breadwinner to support a family. Maybe it isn’t possible to recreate a family wage for a less unionized and more feminist age — but are we sure? Is there really nothing conservatives can do to address the costs of child care, the unfulfilled parental desire to shift to part-time work, the problem that a slightly more reactionary iteration of Elizabeth Warren once dubbed “the two-income trap”? If marriages and intact families and birthrates declined as the family wage crumbled, perhaps we should try rebuilding that economic foundation before we declare the crisis of the family a wound that policy can’t heal. A final example: Historically conservatism has been proudly paternalist, favorable to forms of censorship and prohibition for the sake of protecting precisely the private virtues that Carlson’s critics think government can’t cultivate. But in recent decades, the right’s elites have despaired of censoring pornography, acquiesced to the spread of casino gambling, made peace with the creeping commercialization of marijuana, and accepted the internet’s conquest of childhood and adolescence. Yet none of these trends actually seem entirely beyond the influence of regulation. It’s just that conservatism has given up — once again, in unwarranted despair — on earlier assumptions about how public paternalism can encourage private virtue. The deeper point here is that public policy is rarely a cure-all, but it can often be a corrective. And the part of Carlson’s monologue his critics should especially ponder is the end, when he suggests that absent a corrective that "protects normal families," even the normal will eventually turn to socialism — choosing a left-wing overcorrection over a right that just says, Well, you see, we already cut corporate taxes, so there's nothing we can do. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTOpinion) and Instagram, join the Facebook political discussion group, Voting While Female. Ross Douthat has been an Opinion columnist for The Times since 2009. He is the author of several books, most recently, “To Change the Church: Pope Francis and the Future of Catholicism.”
You can follow him on Twitter:  @DouthatNYT  You can follow him on Twitter:  @DouthatNYT Supported by By Maggie Haberman Michael D. Cohen, the former personal lawyer and fixer for President Trump, acknowledged on Thursday that he had paid the owner of a technology services company to help doctor results of an online poll to help Mr. Trump as he considered a run for president. In a post on Twitter about his actions, first reported by The Wall Street Journal, Mr. Cohen said that he had done so at the direction of Mr. Trump, and regretted it. As for the @WSJ article on poll rigging, what I did was at the direction of and for the sole benefit of @realDonaldTrump @POTUS. I truly regret my blind loyalty to a man who doesn’t deserve it. The Journal reported that in early 2015, before Mr. Trump declared himself a candidate for president, Mr. Cohen gave $12,000 to $13,000 in cash stuffed in a Walmart bag to John Gauger, the owner of RedFinch Solutions, who also works for Liberty University. The money was in exchange for help boosting Mr. Trump’s name in two online polls. Mr. Cohen was supposed to pay Mr. Gauger $50,000 for the work, the man told The Journal, but the full amount was never paid out. However, Mr. Cohen billed the Trump Organization $50,000 for technology services, according to federal prosecutors in Manhattan, who referenced the amount in a charging document. Mr. Cohen did not respond to a message seeking comment. Mr. Gauger could not be reached for comment. According to The Journal, Mr. Cohen also asked during the 2016 campaign for Mr. Gauger’s help establishing a “Women for Cohen” Twitter feed that described Mr. Cohen as a “sex symbol,” and sought to promote his public appearances. Mr. Cohen was a frequent cable news presence during the 2016 campaign in support of Mr. Trump. Mr. Cohen has agreed to testify before the House Committee on Oversight and Reform on Feb. 7. Mr. Cohen’s testimony will be restricted to avoid issues directly related to the special counsel investigation into whether there was collusion by anyone in the Trump campaign with Russian officials. Over the weekend, Mr. Trump, in an interview on Fox News, tried to urge prosecutors and members of the media to investigate Mr. Cohen’s family, and he blasted his former fixer as “weak.”  

Supported by By Maggie Haberman Michael D. Cohen, the former personal lawyer and fixer for President Trump, acknowledged on Thursday that he had paid the owner of a technology services company to help doctor results of an online poll to help Mr. Trump as he considered a run for president. In a post on Twitter about his actions, first reported by The Wall Street Journal, Mr. Cohen said that he had done so at the direction of Mr. Trump, and regretted it. As for the @WSJ article on poll rigging, what I did was at the direction of and for the sole benefit of @realDonaldTrump @POTUS. I truly regret my blind loyalty to a man who doesn’t deserve it. The Journal reported that in early 2015, before Mr. Trump declared himself a candidate for president, Mr. Cohen gave $12,000 to $13,000 in cash stuffed in a Walmart bag to John Gauger, the owner of RedFinch Solutions, who also works for Liberty University. The money was in exchange for help boosting Mr. Trump’s name in two online polls. Mr. Cohen was supposed to pay Mr. Gauger $50,000 for the work, the man told The Journal, but the full amount was never paid out. However, Mr. Cohen billed the Trump Organization $50,000 for technology services, according to federal prosecutors in Manhattan, who referenced the amount in a charging document. Mr. Cohen did not respond to a message seeking comment. Mr. Gauger could not be reached for comment. According to The Journal, Mr. Cohen also asked during the 2016 campaign for Mr. Gauger’s help establishing a “Women for Cohen” Twitter feed that described Mr. Cohen as a “sex symbol,” and sought to promote his public appearances. Mr. Cohen was a frequent cable news presence during the 2016 campaign in support of Mr. Trump. Mr. Cohen has agreed to testify before the House Committee on Oversight and Reform on Feb. 7. Mr. Cohen’s testimony will be restricted to avoid issues directly related to the special counsel investigation into whether there was collusion by anyone in the Trump campaign with Russian officials. Over the weekend, Mr. Trump, in an interview on Fox News, tried to urge prosecutors and members of the media to investigate Mr. Cohen’s family, and he blasted his former fixer as “weak.”  Supported by FRONT PAGE An article on Monday about the relationship between President Trump and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu misstated the surname and position of a journalist at The Forward. She is Batya Ungar-Sargon, not Ungar-Garson, and she is The Forward’s opinion editor, not a columnist. • An article on Saturday about the conviction of the former executive Edward P. Mangano and his wife, Linda, referred incorrectly to the couple’s first trial. Witnesses testified about Richard Walker, the former deputy executive of Nassau County; it is not the case that Mr. Walker himself testified. It also referred incorrectly to the benefits that prosecutors said Mr. Mangano received from a restaurateur. He was not accused of receiving free limousine rides. INTERNATIONAL An article on Monday about the victims of Ethiopian Airlines Flight 302 misidentified a United Nations agency whose employees were among the victims in the Ethiopian Airways plane crash. It is the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, not the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights. NATIONAL An article on Saturday about anti-immigration groups that have expressed dismay over President Trump’s recent comments on legal immigration misidentified the network on which Lou Dobbs hosts a nightly program. It is Fox Business Network, not Fox News. NEW YORK Because of an editing error, a headline with an article on Monday about bishops across the country acknowledging their failures in the Roman Catholic Church’s sexual abuse crisis misstated a quotation by Archbishop Leonard P. Blair of Hartford, who was offering a special Mass of Reparations at a parish in Guilford, Conn., last month. He said, “I ask forgiveness of God,” not “I ask forgiveness from God.” SPORTS A picture caption in an article on Monday about the golfer Rory McIlroy’s defeat at the Arnold Palmer Invitational misidentified Mr. McIlroy’s partner in the final pairing. It was Matthew Fitzpatrick, not Francesco Molinari. ARTS An article on March 2 about movies and television shows to stream this month misstated the premiere date of “Shrill.” It is March 15, not March 8. SPECIAL SECTION: THE ARTFUL HOME Several picture captions in an article on Thursday about North African-inspired design misspelled the surname of a Tangier-based interior designer. He is Frank de Biasi, not Frank DiBiasi. OBITUARIES An obituary on Monday about the artist Carolee Schneemann misstated the surname of a co-founder of a gallery that represented her. She is Wendy Olsoff, not Osloff. Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions. To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com or call 1-844-NYT-NEWS (1-844-698-6397). Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com or faxed to (212) 556-3622. For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.

Supported by FRONT PAGE An article on Monday about the relationship between President Trump and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu misstated the surname and position of a journalist at The Forward. She is Batya Ungar-Sargon, not Ungar-Garson, and she is The Forward’s opinion editor, not a columnist. • An article on Saturday about the conviction of the former executive Edward P. Mangano and his wife, Linda, referred incorrectly to the couple’s first trial. Witnesses testified about Richard Walker, the former deputy executive of Nassau County; it is not the case that Mr. Walker himself testified. It also referred incorrectly to the benefits that prosecutors said Mr. Mangano received from a restaurateur. He was not accused of receiving free limousine rides. INTERNATIONAL An article on Monday about the victims of Ethiopian Airlines Flight 302 misidentified a United Nations agency whose employees were among the victims in the Ethiopian Airways plane crash. It is the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, not the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights. NATIONAL An article on Saturday about anti-immigration groups that have expressed dismay over President Trump’s recent comments on legal immigration misidentified the network on which Lou Dobbs hosts a nightly program. It is Fox Business Network, not Fox News. NEW YORK Because of an editing error, a headline with an article on Monday about bishops across the country acknowledging their failures in the Roman Catholic Church’s sexual abuse crisis misstated a quotation by Archbishop Leonard P. Blair of Hartford, who was offering a special Mass of Reparations at a parish in Guilford, Conn., last month. He said, “I ask forgiveness of God,” not “I ask forgiveness from God.” SPORTS A picture caption in an article on Monday about the golfer Rory McIlroy’s defeat at the Arnold Palmer Invitational misidentified Mr. McIlroy’s partner in the final pairing. It was Matthew Fitzpatrick, not Francesco Molinari. ARTS An article on March 2 about movies and television shows to stream this month misstated the premiere date of “Shrill.” It is March 15, not March 8. SPECIAL SECTION: THE ARTFUL HOME Several picture captions in an article on Thursday about North African-inspired design misspelled the surname of a Tangier-based interior designer. He is Frank de Biasi, not Frank DiBiasi. OBITUARIES An obituary on Monday about the artist Carolee Schneemann misstated the surname of a co-founder of a gallery that represented her. She is Wendy Olsoff, not Osloff. Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions. To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com or call 1-844-NYT-NEWS (1-844-698-6397). Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com or faxed to (212) 556-3622. For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.Supported by By Nicholas Fandos and Maggie Haberman WASHINGTON — Three newly empowered Democratic House committee chairmen, alarmed by statements over the weekend by President Trump about his former lawyer’s planned testimony before Congress, cautioned on Sunday that any effort to discourage or influence a witness’s testimony could be construed as a crime. The warning, a stark and unusual message from some of Congress’s most influential Democrats, underscores the increasing legal and political peril facing Mr. Trump. Democrats are beginning their own investigations of him as the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, appears to move toward a conclusion in his investigation into the Trump campaign’s ties to Russia and potential obstruction of justice by Mr. Trump. In a Fox News interview on Saturday night, Mr. Trump accused the former lawyer, Michael D. Cohen, of lying about him to win leniency from federal prosecutors and spoke cryptically of the existence of damaging information against Mr. Cohen’s father-in-law. Mr. Cohen, who has been sentenced to three years in prison, has accused Mr. Trump of directing him to make illegal hush payments during the campaign. “Our nation’s laws prohibit efforts to discourage, intimidate or otherwise pressure a witness not to provide testimony to Congress,” the chairmen wrote. “The president should make no statement or take any action to obstruct Congress’s independent oversight and investigative efforts, including by seeking to discourage any witness from testifying in response to a duly authorized request from Congress.” The message seemed to imply that if Democrats in the House were to ever try to build an impeachment case against Mr. Trump, attempts to interfere with their work could be used as evidence. One of the chairmen who signed the letter, Representative Elijah E. Cummings of Maryland, who leads the Oversight and Reform Committee, announced last week that Mr. Cohen would testify publicly for the first time next month about his work on behalf of Mr. Trump. The hearing promises to be a blockbuster session that could further erode Mr. Trump’s public image and clarify the extent of his legal exposure. In August, Mr. Cohen pleaded guilty in federal court in Manhattan to tax fraud, making false statements to a bank and a campaign finance violation. He later pleaded guilty  to an additional charge of lying to Congress about how long negotiations for a Trump Tower project in Moscow went on in 2016. He acknowledged that Mr. Trump’s associates pursued the project well into 2016, as the Kremlin was escalating its efforts to interfere in the American election on his behalf. In court, he said Mr. Trump had directed him to arrange payments to two women during the 2016 campaign to stop them from speaking publicly about affairs they said they had with him. He worked closely alongside Mr. Trump during his time as a businessman and candidate, and has spent more than 70 hours with federal prosecutors in Manhattan as well as with Mr. Mueller’s team. As Mr. Trump’s attacks on him have intensified, Mr. Cohen has told friends that he is worried for his safety, though no public evidence of any such threats has emerged. Mr. Trump’s comments about Mr. Cohen on Saturday, made during a friendly interview with Jeanine Pirro of Fox News, were his first extended remarks on the matter since Mr. Cohen’s congressional testimony was announced. Asked by Ms. Pirro if he was “worried” about the testimony, Mr. Trump called Mr. Cohen “weak” and asserted — in contradiction to filings by federal prosecutors in Manhattan — that Mr. Cohen had “no information” on him. “He’s in trouble on some loans and fraud and taxicabs and stuff that I know nothing about,” Mr. Trump said. “And in order to get his sentence reduced, he says, I have an idea, I’ll tell — I’ll give you some information on the president.” Mr. Trump then implied that Mr. Cohen ought to be sharing information instead on his father-in-law, whose name he said he did not know. “But he should give information maybe on his father-in-law, because that’s the one that people want to look at,” he said, adding, “That’s the money in the family.” Pressed by Ms. Pirro for more details, Mr. Trump said, “I don’t know, but you’ll find out, and you’ll look into it because nobody knows what’s going on over there.” Mr. Cohen’s father-in-law, Fima Shusterman, emigrated from Ukraine in 1975. The year before his daughter’s marriage to Mr. Cohen, he pleaded guilty to evading federal reporting requirements for large cash transactions, admitting that he had cashed $5.5 million worth of checks to evade disclosure laws. He was sentenced to probation after cooperating with prosecutors in a related case. Saturday was not the first time Mr. Trump has targeted Mr. Cohen’s family. After Mr. Cohen pleaded guilty to his crimes, the president said Mr. Cohen had done so only to save his wife and his father-in-law. As they prepared to indict him, prosecutors had signaled to Mr. Cohen that his wife could be implicated, since she had also signed his tax returns. That threat helped push Mr. Cohen to plead guilty to the charges, according to a person familiar with the events. Prosecutors have made no move toward his wife since Mr. Cohen’s guilty plea in August. The statement from the three chairmen was also signed by Representative Adam B. Schiff of California, the chairman of the Intelligence Committee, and Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, the Judiciary Committee chairman. Both men are investigating the president for various reasons, and Mr. Nadler’s committee would be the body to weigh a possible impeachment. Mr. Nadler has said he will wait for Mr. Mueller to complete his work before seriously considering impeachment, but he told The New York Times last month that the campaign finance fraud laid out by prosecutors in New York was likely to meet the criteria for an impeachable offense and warranted congressional investigation. He has also issued repeated warnings about Mr. Trump’s attacks on federal law enforcement officials, including Mr. Mueller. In 1974, the Judiciary Committee included obstruction of congressional investigations and proceedings among a litany of offenses for which it voted to impeach President Richard M. Nixon. He resigned from office before the full House voted on the impeachment articles. A previous version of this article misstated Mr. Cohen’s business relationship with his father-in-law. They were never business partners; Mr. Shusterman owned seven taxi medallion corporations. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.  

Supported by By Nicholas Fandos and Maggie Haberman WASHINGTON — Three newly empowered Democratic House committee chairmen, alarmed by statements over the weekend by President Trump about his former lawyer’s planned testimony before Congress, cautioned on Sunday that any effort to discourage or influence a witness’s testimony could be construed as a crime. The warning, a stark and unusual message from some of Congress’s most influential Democrats, underscores the increasing legal and political peril facing Mr. Trump. Democrats are beginning their own investigations of him as the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, appears to move toward a conclusion in his investigation into the Trump campaign’s ties to Russia and potential obstruction of justice by Mr. Trump. In a Fox News interview on Saturday night, Mr. Trump accused the former lawyer, Michael D. Cohen, of lying about him to win leniency from federal prosecutors and spoke cryptically of the existence of damaging information against Mr. Cohen’s father-in-law. Mr. Cohen, who has been sentenced to three years in prison, has accused Mr. Trump of directing him to make illegal hush payments during the campaign. “Our nation’s laws prohibit efforts to discourage, intimidate or otherwise pressure a witness not to provide testimony to Congress,” the chairmen wrote. “The president should make no statement or take any action to obstruct Congress’s independent oversight and investigative efforts, including by seeking to discourage any witness from testifying in response to a duly authorized request from Congress.” The message seemed to imply that if Democrats in the House were to ever try to build an impeachment case against Mr. Trump, attempts to interfere with their work could be used as evidence. One of the chairmen who signed the letter, Representative Elijah E. Cummings of Maryland, who leads the Oversight and Reform Committee, announced last week that Mr. Cohen would testify publicly for the first time next month about his work on behalf of Mr. Trump. The hearing promises to be a blockbuster session that could further erode Mr. Trump’s public image and clarify the extent of his legal exposure. In August, Mr. Cohen pleaded guilty in federal court in Manhattan to tax fraud, making false statements to a bank and a campaign finance violation. He later pleaded guilty  to an additional charge of lying to Congress about how long negotiations for a Trump Tower project in Moscow went on in 2016. He acknowledged that Mr. Trump’s associates pursued the project well into 2016, as the Kremlin was escalating its efforts to interfere in the American election on his behalf. In court, he said Mr. Trump had directed him to arrange payments to two women during the 2016 campaign to stop them from speaking publicly about affairs they said they had with him. He worked closely alongside Mr. Trump during his time as a businessman and candidate, and has spent more than 70 hours with federal prosecutors in Manhattan as well as with Mr. Mueller’s team. As Mr. Trump’s attacks on him have intensified, Mr. Cohen has told friends that he is worried for his safety, though no public evidence of any such threats has emerged. Mr. Trump’s comments about Mr. Cohen on Saturday, made during a friendly interview with Jeanine Pirro of Fox News, were his first extended remarks on the matter since Mr. Cohen’s congressional testimony was announced. Asked by Ms. Pirro if he was “worried” about the testimony, Mr. Trump called Mr. Cohen “weak” and asserted — in contradiction to filings by federal prosecutors in Manhattan — that Mr. Cohen had “no information” on him. “He’s in trouble on some loans and fraud and taxicabs and stuff that I know nothing about,” Mr. Trump said. “And in order to get his sentence reduced, he says, I have an idea, I’ll tell — I’ll give you some information on the president.” Mr. Trump then implied that Mr. Cohen ought to be sharing information instead on his father-in-law, whose name he said he did not know. “But he should give information maybe on his father-in-law, because that’s the one that people want to look at,” he said, adding, “That’s the money in the family.” Pressed by Ms. Pirro for more details, Mr. Trump said, “I don’t know, but you’ll find out, and you’ll look into it because nobody knows what’s going on over there.” Mr. Cohen’s father-in-law, Fima Shusterman, emigrated from Ukraine in 1975. The year before his daughter’s marriage to Mr. Cohen, he pleaded guilty to evading federal reporting requirements for large cash transactions, admitting that he had cashed $5.5 million worth of checks to evade disclosure laws. He was sentenced to probation after cooperating with prosecutors in a related case. Saturday was not the first time Mr. Trump has targeted Mr. Cohen’s family. After Mr. Cohen pleaded guilty to his crimes, the president said Mr. Cohen had done so only to save his wife and his father-in-law. As they prepared to indict him, prosecutors had signaled to Mr. Cohen that his wife could be implicated, since she had also signed his tax returns. That threat helped push Mr. Cohen to plead guilty to the charges, according to a person familiar with the events. Prosecutors have made no move toward his wife since Mr. Cohen’s guilty plea in August. The statement from the three chairmen was also signed by Representative Adam B. Schiff of California, the chairman of the Intelligence Committee, and Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, the Judiciary Committee chairman. Both men are investigating the president for various reasons, and Mr. Nadler’s committee would be the body to weigh a possible impeachment. Mr. Nadler has said he will wait for Mr. Mueller to complete his work before seriously considering impeachment, but he told The New York Times last month that the campaign finance fraud laid out by prosecutors in New York was likely to meet the criteria for an impeachable offense and warranted congressional investigation. He has also issued repeated warnings about Mr. Trump’s attacks on federal law enforcement officials, including Mr. Mueller. In 1974, the Judiciary Committee included obstruction of congressional investigations and proceedings among a litany of offenses for which it voted to impeach President Richard M. Nixon. He resigned from office before the full House voted on the impeachment articles. A previous version of this article misstated Mr. Cohen’s business relationship with his father-in-law. They were never business partners; Mr. Shusterman owned seven taxi medallion corporations. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.  Supported by By Maggie Astor and Michael M. Grynbaum The government shutdown and partisan wrangling over a wall at the southern border have produced high political drama in Washington, where President Trump has sought to portray the impasse as a national emergency. And as the shutdown reached a record 22nd day on Saturday, Americans following local and national media coverage would be forgiven for thinking they had fallen into a parallel universe — with the episode being presented both as a moment of crisis and hardship, and a curiosity that mostly registered as a politically motivated annoyance. Early in the week, the historically conservative Cincinnati Enquirer labeled the paralysis a “buzzkill,” warning readers that the lag in government approval of new beer labels could reduce the output from local breweries. Several days later it reported on 40 Cincinnati and Northern Kentucky government employees protesting outside a local I.R.S. processing center, focusing on the financial difficulties furloughed employees face, like day care expenses and rent payments. Polls show that more Americans blame the president for the shutdown than blame congressional Democrats. But there is a very stark partisan divide, with a large majority of Republicans supporting Mr. Trump. And while conservative media has been mostly supportive of the president, its coverage has sometimes diverged from Mr. Trump’s tone of crisis. In Beaumont, Tex., a moderate city in a red district near Houston, the Beaumont Enterprise editorial board welcomed Mr. Trump’s visit to the border on Thursday but urged both sides to compromise. “It doesn’t matter that Trump has done more to inflame this standoff than Democrats,” the paper wrote. “The goal must be a solution, not a continuation of this costly governmental stalemate.” The Dallas Morning News published an editorial this week that took particular aim at Mr. Trump for waging a potentially unwinnable fight that focuses on crime, questioned his “moral credibility” and urged him to offer a deal that protects immigrant children in exchange for the wall he wants. But Robert Pratt, a popular conservative radio talk-show host in Lubbock, and a former head of the county Republican Party, recently criticized the news media for focusing on government workers affected by the shutdown. The roots of Washington’s budget dysfunction date to the 1970s. Here’s a look at past shutdowns and how they led to today’s. “The temporary plight of government workers is treated as a national crisis while the perpetual plight of millions more who take huge risks, work long hours to create jobs, and build and maintain the economy rarely gets a mention,” he wrote. There has even been some conflicting commentary in the Fox News firmament. Brian Kilmeade, a co-host of the reliably pro-Trump “Fox & Friends,” said on Thursday’s program that the declaration of a national emergency to fund a wall, which the president is considering, “would just be a disaster in the big picture, and just show us being inept and unable to govern around the world.” The host went on to suggest that future presidents could use a similar tactic for purposes that may be less aligned with the “Fox & Friends” worldview. “It would just set a terrible precedent,” Mr. Kilmeade said, as his co-hosts listened silently. “The next president, if it is a liberal president, will say a state of emergency will be climate change.” Mr. Kilmeade’s break from Trump orthodoxy followed a tough exchange last weekend between the “Fox News Sunday” moderator Chris Wallace and Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary. The harsh questioning of Ms. Sanders led to the president dropping one of his key talking points — an inaccurate claim that thousands of terrorists were crossing the border — in favor of a wall. Many of Fox News’s commentators, however, have been supportive of the president. In an online column on Wednesday titled “Trump’s plea for a wall is more than about stats — it’s about saving lives,” Sean Hannity echoed many of the president’s arguments from his Oval Office speech on Tuesday, citing the same statistics about crime and opioid deaths. “This is a national emergency,’’ Mr. Hannity wrote, conveying Mr. Trump’s dark tone. “The situation is now dire.” Another columnist, Charlie Kirk, wrote that, politically, Mr. Trump had trapped Democrats, “essentially forcing them to say: We support border security and we support reopening the entire federal government, but we don’t support border security enough to take action to reopen the entire federal government.” The belief that Democrats are to blame for the shutdown has been mostly consistent across right-wing media. In an interview that the conservative Sinclair Broadcast Group required all of its stations to run, Senator Mike Braun, Republican of Indiana, told the political analyst Boris Epshteyn — a former top aide to Mr. Trump — that the shutdown was a test of whether Democrats wanted to “do anything other than the status quo.” “Here’s the bottom line,” Mr. Epshteyn said at the end of the segment, which aired across the country this week. “It is highly irresponsible for congressional Democrats to let their disdain for the president and their insistence on playing partisan politics stand in the way of securing our country. Let’s hope the Democrats come to the table soon and end this partial government shutdown.” Immediately after Mr. Trump’s Oval Office speech on Tuesday, in response to a caller on WNIR in Akron, Ohio, the conservative radio personality Jim Isabella said the president had successfully gotten Congress’s top two Democrats — Speaker Nancy Pelosi and the Senate minority leader, Chuck Schumer — to “take a cheap shot at him.” “He was the adult in the room tonight,” Mr. Isabella said. Rush Limbaugh, the right-wing talk radio host, praised Mr. Trump for refusing to give ground. “We have a president keeping promises left and right,” Mr. Limbaugh said on Wednesday. “And isn’t it interesting to see how trivial Washington thinks that is?” But in some corners of conservative media, the sentiment supporting the president was more nuanced. Raheem Kassam, a fellow at the conservative Claremont Institute and a columnist for The Daily Caller, wrote on Tuesday that the shutdown was “of course being leveraged by the Democrats and the establishment media,” but that it was working in Mr. Trump’s favor. He added that he didn’t think arguments about the shutdown’s impact on government workers would be effective. “That’s a tough sell to most Americans, who don’t have half the luxuries or benefits of federal employees,” he said. “If Trump can continue looking like a steward of security and humanitarian concerns throughout his visit to the border on Thursday, there’s a very good chance he has the wall in the bag.” Other outlets called outright for the president to back down. After Senator Cory Gardner of Colorado supported the reopening of the government — the first Republican senator to do so — Colorado Peak Politics, which bills itself as the state’s “conservative bully pulpit,” published an editorial titled “END THE SHUTDOWN.” David Brody, the chief political correspondent for the Christian Broadcasting Network, which reaches a largely evangelical Christian audience, said he had been focusing not so much on the policy issues as on “the breakdown of civility between Democrats and Republicans.” “From a Christian perspective, that’s been a big part,” Mr. Brody said in a phone interview. As the debate raged in many parts of the nation, others remained unperturbed. It seemed at times that the big divide was not over who was right — in conservative circles, many people agreed that it was the president — but over how important it really was. “People are not as concerned out here about the shutdown and don’t feel affected,” Jim Hoft, founder and editor of The Gateway Pundit, said in a phone interview, referring to the Midwest. That being said, he added that many conservatives in the Midwest felt that Democrats were preventing Mr. Trump from making the country safer, and that most of his readers “support the president on this issue.” For many Americans, as federal workers missed their first paycheck, the effects became more visceral, and the blame game less important. That was reflected in the Cincinnati Enquirer’s article on the I.R.S. protests this week. The story quoted a union leader, Debbie Mullikin, saying that some furloughed workers were at risk of homelessness. “Mullikin said she isn’t sure who to blame for the shutdown,” the article said, “but that isn’t the point.” Reporting was contributed by Elizabeth Dias, Sydney Ember, Tatum Hunter, Ann Klein and Julie Turkewitz.   

Supported by By Maggie Astor and Michael M. Grynbaum The government shutdown and partisan wrangling over a wall at the southern border have produced high political drama in Washington, where President Trump has sought to portray the impasse as a national emergency. And as the shutdown reached a record 22nd day on Saturday, Americans following local and national media coverage would be forgiven for thinking they had fallen into a parallel universe — with the episode being presented both as a moment of crisis and hardship, and a curiosity that mostly registered as a politically motivated annoyance. Early in the week, the historically conservative Cincinnati Enquirer labeled the paralysis a “buzzkill,” warning readers that the lag in government approval of new beer labels could reduce the output from local breweries. Several days later it reported on 40 Cincinnati and Northern Kentucky government employees protesting outside a local I.R.S. processing center, focusing on the financial difficulties furloughed employees face, like day care expenses and rent payments. Polls show that more Americans blame the president for the shutdown than blame congressional Democrats. But there is a very stark partisan divide, with a large majority of Republicans supporting Mr. Trump. And while conservative media has been mostly supportive of the president, its coverage has sometimes diverged from Mr. Trump’s tone of crisis. In Beaumont, Tex., a moderate city in a red district near Houston, the Beaumont Enterprise editorial board welcomed Mr. Trump’s visit to the border on Thursday but urged both sides to compromise. “It doesn’t matter that Trump has done more to inflame this standoff than Democrats,” the paper wrote. “The goal must be a solution, not a continuation of this costly governmental stalemate.” The Dallas Morning News published an editorial this week that took particular aim at Mr. Trump for waging a potentially unwinnable fight that focuses on crime, questioned his “moral credibility” and urged him to offer a deal that protects immigrant children in exchange for the wall he wants. But Robert Pratt, a popular conservative radio talk-show host in Lubbock, and a former head of the county Republican Party, recently criticized the news media for focusing on government workers affected by the shutdown. The roots of Washington’s budget dysfunction date to the 1970s. Here’s a look at past shutdowns and how they led to today’s. “The temporary plight of government workers is treated as a national crisis while the perpetual plight of millions more who take huge risks, work long hours to create jobs, and build and maintain the economy rarely gets a mention,” he wrote. There has even been some conflicting commentary in the Fox News firmament. Brian Kilmeade, a co-host of the reliably pro-Trump “Fox & Friends,” said on Thursday’s program that the declaration of a national emergency to fund a wall, which the president is considering, “would just be a disaster in the big picture, and just show us being inept and unable to govern around the world.” The host went on to suggest that future presidents could use a similar tactic for purposes that may be less aligned with the “Fox & Friends” worldview. “It would just set a terrible precedent,” Mr. Kilmeade said, as his co-hosts listened silently. “The next president, if it is a liberal president, will say a state of emergency will be climate change.” Mr. Kilmeade’s break from Trump orthodoxy followed a tough exchange last weekend between the “Fox News Sunday” moderator Chris Wallace and Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary. The harsh questioning of Ms. Sanders led to the president dropping one of his key talking points — an inaccurate claim that thousands of terrorists were crossing the border — in favor of a wall. Many of Fox News’s commentators, however, have been supportive of the president. In an online column on Wednesday titled “Trump’s plea for a wall is more than about stats — it’s about saving lives,” Sean Hannity echoed many of the president’s arguments from his Oval Office speech on Tuesday, citing the same statistics about crime and opioid deaths. “This is a national emergency,’’ Mr. Hannity wrote, conveying Mr. Trump’s dark tone. “The situation is now dire.” Another columnist, Charlie Kirk, wrote that, politically, Mr. Trump had trapped Democrats, “essentially forcing them to say: We support border security and we support reopening the entire federal government, but we don’t support border security enough to take action to reopen the entire federal government.” The belief that Democrats are to blame for the shutdown has been mostly consistent across right-wing media. In an interview that the conservative Sinclair Broadcast Group required all of its stations to run, Senator Mike Braun, Republican of Indiana, told the political analyst Boris Epshteyn — a former top aide to Mr. Trump — that the shutdown was a test of whether Democrats wanted to “do anything other than the status quo.” “Here’s the bottom line,” Mr. Epshteyn said at the end of the segment, which aired across the country this week. “It is highly irresponsible for congressional Democrats to let their disdain for the president and their insistence on playing partisan politics stand in the way of securing our country. Let’s hope the Democrats come to the table soon and end this partial government shutdown.” Immediately after Mr. Trump’s Oval Office speech on Tuesday, in response to a caller on WNIR in Akron, Ohio, the conservative radio personality Jim Isabella said the president had successfully gotten Congress’s top two Democrats — Speaker Nancy Pelosi and the Senate minority leader, Chuck Schumer — to “take a cheap shot at him.” “He was the adult in the room tonight,” Mr. Isabella said. Rush Limbaugh, the right-wing talk radio host, praised Mr. Trump for refusing to give ground. “We have a president keeping promises left and right,” Mr. Limbaugh said on Wednesday. “And isn’t it interesting to see how trivial Washington thinks that is?” But in some corners of conservative media, the sentiment supporting the president was more nuanced. Raheem Kassam, a fellow at the conservative Claremont Institute and a columnist for The Daily Caller, wrote on Tuesday that the shutdown was “of course being leveraged by the Democrats and the establishment media,” but that it was working in Mr. Trump’s favor. He added that he didn’t think arguments about the shutdown’s impact on government workers would be effective. “That’s a tough sell to most Americans, who don’t have half the luxuries or benefits of federal employees,” he said. “If Trump can continue looking like a steward of security and humanitarian concerns throughout his visit to the border on Thursday, there’s a very good chance he has the wall in the bag.” Other outlets called outright for the president to back down. After Senator Cory Gardner of Colorado supported the reopening of the government — the first Republican senator to do so — Colorado Peak Politics, which bills itself as the state’s “conservative bully pulpit,” published an editorial titled “END THE SHUTDOWN.” David Brody, the chief political correspondent for the Christian Broadcasting Network, which reaches a largely evangelical Christian audience, said he had been focusing not so much on the policy issues as on “the breakdown of civility between Democrats and Republicans.” “From a Christian perspective, that’s been a big part,” Mr. Brody said in a phone interview. As the debate raged in many parts of the nation, others remained unperturbed. It seemed at times that the big divide was not over who was right — in conservative circles, many people agreed that it was the president — but over how important it really was. “People are not as concerned out here about the shutdown and don’t feel affected,” Jim Hoft, founder and editor of The Gateway Pundit, said in a phone interview, referring to the Midwest. That being said, he added that many conservatives in the Midwest felt that Democrats were preventing Mr. Trump from making the country safer, and that most of his readers “support the president on this issue.” For many Americans, as federal workers missed their first paycheck, the effects became more visceral, and the blame game less important. That was reflected in the Cincinnati Enquirer’s article on the I.R.S. protests this week. The story quoted a union leader, Debbie Mullikin, saying that some furloughed workers were at risk of homelessness. “Mullikin said she isn’t sure who to blame for the shutdown,” the article said, “but that isn’t the point.” Reporting was contributed by Elizabeth Dias, Sydney Ember, Tatum Hunter, Ann Klein and Julie Turkewitz.   Supported by By Alan Rappeport WASHINGTON — The Trump administration on Thursday ratcheted up pressure on North Korea, imposing new sanctions on two Chinese shipping companies that it says have been helping the country evade international sanctions. The sanctions linked to North Korea were the first that the Treasury Department has imposed since late last year and come less than a month after a summit meeting between President Trump and Kim Jong-un, North Korea’s leader, collapsed in Hanoi, Vietnam, without a deal. Mr. Trump wanted North Korea to fully denuclearize in exchange for sanctions relief, while North Korea favored a more gradual rollback of its nuclear program in exchange for the removal of sanctions that are most painful to its citizens. “The United States and our like-minded partners remain committed to achieving the final, fully verified denuclearization of North Korea and believe that the full implementation of North Korea-related U.N. Security Council resolutions is crucial to a successful outcome,” Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, said in a statement. [Read the latest update on Trump reversing U.S. sanctions on North Korea.] The department penalized Dalian Haibo, which is based in China, for providing shipping services to a North Korean company that sells metal and coal. It also imposed sanctions on Liaoning Danxing, which is also based in China, for using what it called “deceptive practices” that allowed North Korean officials in Europe to purchase goods for Mr. Kim’s government. The United States has been concerned that illicit shipping practices have been propping up North Korea’s economy. The Treasury Department said that in 2018, North Korean ports received at least 263 tanker deliveries of refined petroleum procured from ship-to-ship transfers that are prohibited by the United Nations. The failure of the Hanoi meeting was a major disappointment for Mr. Trump, who has befriended Mr. Kim and bolstered his credibility with two face-to-face meetings. Mike Pompeo, the secretary of state, said on Fox News last week that progress had been made in Vietnam even though no final agreement had been reached. “We didn’t get an agreement for the full and final denuclearization in a verified way,” he said. “This is a long process.” John R. Bolton, Mr. Trump’s national security adviser, said on Twitter on Thursday that the new sanctions were a warning to the maritime industry not to aid North Korea’s illicit shipping practices. “Everyone should take notice and review their own activities to ensure they are not involved in North Korea’s sanctions evasion,” Mr. Bolton said. Administration officials said late Thursday that some of the sanctions around North Korea had “shown leakage.” The two companies penalized Thursday were Chinese, and an indication of what an administration official called “leakage from China.” Another senior official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said the new sanctions were about maintaining, not increasing, maximum pressure on North Korea. Despite the workaround by the two Chinese companies, Trump officials said their sanctions were working, pointing to the fact that North Korean exports and imports were down. Julian Barnes contributed reporting.  

Supported by By Alan Rappeport WASHINGTON — The Trump administration on Thursday ratcheted up pressure on North Korea, imposing new sanctions on two Chinese shipping companies that it says have been helping the country evade international sanctions. The sanctions linked to North Korea were the first that the Treasury Department has imposed since late last year and come less than a month after a summit meeting between President Trump and Kim Jong-un, North Korea’s leader, collapsed in Hanoi, Vietnam, without a deal. Mr. Trump wanted North Korea to fully denuclearize in exchange for sanctions relief, while North Korea favored a more gradual rollback of its nuclear program in exchange for the removal of sanctions that are most painful to its citizens. “The United States and our like-minded partners remain committed to achieving the final, fully verified denuclearization of North Korea and believe that the full implementation of North Korea-related U.N. Security Council resolutions is crucial to a successful outcome,” Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, said in a statement. [Read the latest update on Trump reversing U.S. sanctions on North Korea.] The department penalized Dalian Haibo, which is based in China, for providing shipping services to a North Korean company that sells metal and coal. It also imposed sanctions on Liaoning Danxing, which is also based in China, for using what it called “deceptive practices” that allowed North Korean officials in Europe to purchase goods for Mr. Kim’s government. The United States has been concerned that illicit shipping practices have been propping up North Korea’s economy. The Treasury Department said that in 2018, North Korean ports received at least 263 tanker deliveries of refined petroleum procured from ship-to-ship transfers that are prohibited by the United Nations. The failure of the Hanoi meeting was a major disappointment for Mr. Trump, who has befriended Mr. Kim and bolstered his credibility with two face-to-face meetings. Mike Pompeo, the secretary of state, said on Fox News last week that progress had been made in Vietnam even though no final agreement had been reached. “We didn’t get an agreement for the full and final denuclearization in a verified way,” he said. “This is a long process.” John R. Bolton, Mr. Trump’s national security adviser, said on Twitter on Thursday that the new sanctions were a warning to the maritime industry not to aid North Korea’s illicit shipping practices. “Everyone should take notice and review their own activities to ensure they are not involved in North Korea’s sanctions evasion,” Mr. Bolton said. Administration officials said late Thursday that some of the sanctions around North Korea had “shown leakage.” The two companies penalized Thursday were Chinese, and an indication of what an administration official called “leakage from China.” Another senior official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said the new sanctions were about maintaining, not increasing, maximum pressure on North Korea. Despite the workaround by the two Chinese companies, Trump officials said their sanctions were working, pointing to the fact that North Korean exports and imports were down. Julian Barnes contributed reporting.  Supported by American governance shuts down. By Michelle Goldberg Opinion Columnist An Ernest Hemingway character once said that he went bankrupt two ways: “Gradually and then suddenly.” That may also be how Donald Trump’s administration finally melts down. We are now two years into the Trump presidency. Think back to how unnerving it was, a little more than 100 weeks ago, when Sean Spicer gave his fuming Baghdad Bob press conference insisting, falsely, that the crowd at Trump’s swearing-in was “the largest audience to ever witness an inauguration, period!” Americans were still capable of being surprised, in those innocent days, at being asked to put the lies of their new president above the clear evidence of their senses. Imagine if you’d known then how far we’d fall. The government has been partly shut down for 24 days and counting. Around 800,000 federal employees are missing their paychecks. Thousands of low-income people — largely seniors and the disabled — may soon face eviction due to lack of funds at the Department of Housing and Urban Development. Food and airplanes are both going without routine inspections. [Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.] There’s no permanent attorney general or secretary of defense. (The acting attorney general, Matthew Whitaker, is alleged to have helped a company currently under federal investigation for fraud intimidate its critics.) The national security adviser is John Bolton, and he seems to be trying to provoke a war with Iran. An Associated Press story contains this deadpan line: “White House aides expressed regret that the president did not more clearly and forcefully deny being a Russian agent when asked by the usually friendly Fox News host.” To be clear, we’re very far from a worst-case scenario version of a Trump administration. Last year the president sent nearly 6,000 active-duty American troops to the border based on racist propaganda about a migrant caravan, but there haven’t been tanks in the streets. The administration winks at foreign governments who kill journalists, but its own threats against the media are mostly empty. I feared, at the beginning of this administration, that Trump would try to exploit American intelligence capabilities against his personal enemies, but instead he gets his intelligence from Fox News. The fact that so many high-level Trump associates have pleaded guilty to crimes is a sign of his corruption, but it also shows he hasn’t corrupted our entire system. Trump has turned out to be the Norma Desmond of authoritarians, a senescent has-been whose delusions are propped up by obsequious retainers. From his fantasy world in the White House, he barks dictatorial and often illegal orders, floats conspiracy theories, tweets insults and lies unceasingly. But much of the time he’s not fully in charge. He has the instincts of a fascist but lacks both the discipline and the loyal lieutenants he’d need to create true autocracy. That doesn’t mean, however, that the country isn’t coming undone. Trump’s bumbling incoherence, coupled with his declining political fortunes since the midterms, makes him seem less frightening than he once did. But, two years in, the jaded weariness many of us have developed might obscure how bad things are. We’re living through an unprecedented breakdown in America’s ability to function like a normal country.  The shutdown throws our crisis into high relief. For the first two years, Trump destroyed American norms, standards and conventions. Now he’s cavalierly destroying American lives. As of this writing, the president has rejected every way out of the government shutdown save full capitulation by House Democrats. Last week he stormed out of a meeting with the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, and the Senate minority leader, Chuck Schumer. On Monday he rejected a proposal by his Senate ally Lindsey Graham to open the government for three weeks while the two sides negotiate immigration legislation. For the moment he's backed off from the idea of declaring a national emergency, perhaps because many conservatives are afraid of the precedent it will set. Senate Republicans could end the shutdown tomorrow, but the majority leader, Mitch McConnell, refuses to stand up to Trump. The shutdown, then, is set to continue. Air travel, already a mess, will grow more chaotic as more unpaid T.S.A. agents call in sick or quit. Food stamp benefits — which pay for about 10 percent of American groceries — are being paid through February, but no one knows what happens if the shutdown drags into March. F.B.I. agents aren’t being paid and the agency is being forced to triage investigations. Most immigration courts are closed, and according to The New York Times, court dates that fall during the shutdown could be delayed as long as four years. NBC reported on a federal worker rationing her insulin because she’s not being paid. Native Americans have seen their access to health care curtailed. HuffPost described domestic violence shelters cutting services and planning layoffs. How long can this continue? One lesson of the Trump era is that things can feel unsustainable yet drag on interminably. But for two years, most Americans who don’t live in Puerto Rico have been protected from the material consequences of White House disorder.  That’s changing. Maybe Americans can tolerate uncertainty about whether the president is a traitor. Uncertainty about their next flight, next paycheck or next meal is another story. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.  Michelle Goldberg has been an Opinion columnist since 2017. She is the author of several books about politics, religion and women’s rights, and was part of a team that won a Pulitzer Prize for public service in 2018 for reporting on workplace sexual harassment issues.  @michelleinbklyn 

Supported by American governance shuts down. By Michelle Goldberg Opinion Columnist An Ernest Hemingway character once said that he went bankrupt two ways: “Gradually and then suddenly.” That may also be how Donald Trump’s administration finally melts down. We are now two years into the Trump presidency. Think back to how unnerving it was, a little more than 100 weeks ago, when Sean Spicer gave his fuming Baghdad Bob press conference insisting, falsely, that the crowd at Trump’s swearing-in was “the largest audience to ever witness an inauguration, period!” Americans were still capable of being surprised, in those innocent days, at being asked to put the lies of their new president above the clear evidence of their senses. Imagine if you’d known then how far we’d fall. The government has been partly shut down for 24 days and counting. Around 800,000 federal employees are missing their paychecks. Thousands of low-income people — largely seniors and the disabled — may soon face eviction due to lack of funds at the Department of Housing and Urban Development. Food and airplanes are both going without routine inspections. [Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.] There’s no permanent attorney general or secretary of defense. (The acting attorney general, Matthew Whitaker, is alleged to have helped a company currently under federal investigation for fraud intimidate its critics.) The national security adviser is John Bolton, and he seems to be trying to provoke a war with Iran. An Associated Press story contains this deadpan line: “White House aides expressed regret that the president did not more clearly and forcefully deny being a Russian agent when asked by the usually friendly Fox News host.” To be clear, we’re very far from a worst-case scenario version of a Trump administration. Last year the president sent nearly 6,000 active-duty American troops to the border based on racist propaganda about a migrant caravan, but there haven’t been tanks in the streets. The administration winks at foreign governments who kill journalists, but its own threats against the media are mostly empty. I feared, at the beginning of this administration, that Trump would try to exploit American intelligence capabilities against his personal enemies, but instead he gets his intelligence from Fox News. The fact that so many high-level Trump associates have pleaded guilty to crimes is a sign of his corruption, but it also shows he hasn’t corrupted our entire system. Trump has turned out to be the Norma Desmond of authoritarians, a senescent has-been whose delusions are propped up by obsequious retainers. From his fantasy world in the White House, he barks dictatorial and often illegal orders, floats conspiracy theories, tweets insults and lies unceasingly. But much of the time he’s not fully in charge. He has the instincts of a fascist but lacks both the discipline and the loyal lieutenants he’d need to create true autocracy. That doesn’t mean, however, that the country isn’t coming undone. Trump’s bumbling incoherence, coupled with his declining political fortunes since the midterms, makes him seem less frightening than he once did. But, two years in, the jaded weariness many of us have developed might obscure how bad things are. We’re living through an unprecedented breakdown in America’s ability to function like a normal country.  The shutdown throws our crisis into high relief. For the first two years, Trump destroyed American norms, standards and conventions. Now he’s cavalierly destroying American lives. As of this writing, the president has rejected every way out of the government shutdown save full capitulation by House Democrats. Last week he stormed out of a meeting with the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, and the Senate minority leader, Chuck Schumer. On Monday he rejected a proposal by his Senate ally Lindsey Graham to open the government for three weeks while the two sides negotiate immigration legislation. For the moment he's backed off from the idea of declaring a national emergency, perhaps because many conservatives are afraid of the precedent it will set. Senate Republicans could end the shutdown tomorrow, but the majority leader, Mitch McConnell, refuses to stand up to Trump. The shutdown, then, is set to continue. Air travel, already a mess, will grow more chaotic as more unpaid T.S.A. agents call in sick or quit. Food stamp benefits — which pay for about 10 percent of American groceries — are being paid through February, but no one knows what happens if the shutdown drags into March. F.B.I. agents aren’t being paid and the agency is being forced to triage investigations. Most immigration courts are closed, and according to The New York Times, court dates that fall during the shutdown could be delayed as long as four years. NBC reported on a federal worker rationing her insulin because she’s not being paid. Native Americans have seen their access to health care curtailed. HuffPost described domestic violence shelters cutting services and planning layoffs. How long can this continue? One lesson of the Trump era is that things can feel unsustainable yet drag on interminably. But for two years, most Americans who don’t live in Puerto Rico have been protected from the material consequences of White House disorder.  That’s changing. Maybe Americans can tolerate uncertainty about whether the president is a traitor. Uncertainty about their next flight, next paycheck or next meal is another story. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.  Michelle Goldberg has been an Opinion columnist since 2017. She is the author of several books about politics, religion and women’s rights, and was part of a team that won a Pulitzer Prize for public service in 2018 for reporting on workplace sexual harassment issues.  @michelleinbklyn Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump wants to explore a twice-rejected proposal to send migrants to "sanctuary cities," but that is not the preferred solution to fix the straining immigration system, the White House said Sunday. Press secretary Sarah Sanders said it was one of many options, though she hoped Congress would work with the president on a comprehensive immigration overhaul. The Trump administration is dealing with an ever-increasing number of Central American migrants crossing the U.S.-Mexico border, an influx that has pushed the immigration system to the breaking point. Laws make it hard to quickly return Central Americans, and many of them spend years in the U.S. waiting for their immigration cases to play out. Others claim asylum and wait just as long, living and working in the U.S. as they wait. "Sanctuary cities" are mostly left-leaning places such as New York City and San Francisco where laws prohibit local police and correction officers from working with immigration officials to help arrest and deport people living here illegally. Trump seized on reports last week of the proposal that sought to send migrants already detained to Democratic locations or transport migrants that have just crossed the U.S.-Mexico border to sanctuary cities. Sanders said the idea would be to spread out the number of migrants so the strain would not be on "one or two border communities." "The president likes the idea and Democrats have said they want these individuals into their communities so let's see if it works and everybody gets a win out of it," Sanders said. "Again, this is not the ideal situation." Trump tweeted on Saturday evening that the U.S. had the "absolute legal right to have apprehended illegal immigrants transferred to Sanctuary Cities." But the plan had already been eschewed twice. People with knowledge of the discussions say it was first brought to the Department of Homeland Security from White House staff in November, and was again discussed in February but was put down after DHS officials reviewed it and found it was too costly, a misuse of funds and would be too timely. The people were not authorized to speak publicly and spoke on condition of anonymity. It actually could make it more difficult for Immigration and Customs Enforcement officers to arrest people facing deportation because sanctuary cities do not work with ICE. The Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse at Syracuse University announced last week that an analysis found that immigrants in sanctuary cities are 20% less likely to be arrested out in the community than in cities without such policies. Democrats criticized the White House proposal as a political stunt that used humans as pawns and would not work. "Look, you can't threaten somebody with something they're not afraid of," said Gov. Jay Inslee of Washington state, a candidate for president. "And we are not afraid of diversity in the state of Washington. We relish it. It is the basis of our economic and cultural success. We're built as a state of immigrants." The chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee, Rep. Bennie Thompson, D-Miss., questioned the legality of the proposal. "This is again his manufactured chaos that he's created over the last two years on the border," Thompson said of Trump, adding Democrats were more than willing to sit down and talk about immigration legislation. But Sen. Rick Scott, R-Fla., said sanctuary cities showed contempt for the law, though he didn't know whether there were any legal concerns with transporting migrants to the locales. "I mean, maybe he's just saying this to make everybody crazy," he said of Trump. Sanders appears on ABC's "This Week" and "Fox News Sunday." Scott was on CNN's "State of the Union" and Inslee was on NBC's "Meet the Press." Thompson appeared on ABC.

Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump wants to explore a twice-rejected proposal to send migrants to "sanctuary cities," but that is not the preferred solution to fix the straining immigration system, the White House said Sunday. Press secretary Sarah Sanders said it was one of many options, though she hoped Congress would work with the president on a comprehensive immigration overhaul. The Trump administration is dealing with an ever-increasing number of Central American migrants crossing the U.S.-Mexico border, an influx that has pushed the immigration system to the breaking point. Laws make it hard to quickly return Central Americans, and many of them spend years in the U.S. waiting for their immigration cases to play out. Others claim asylum and wait just as long, living and working in the U.S. as they wait. "Sanctuary cities" are mostly left-leaning places such as New York City and San Francisco where laws prohibit local police and correction officers from working with immigration officials to help arrest and deport people living here illegally. Trump seized on reports last week of the proposal that sought to send migrants already detained to Democratic locations or transport migrants that have just crossed the U.S.-Mexico border to sanctuary cities. Sanders said the idea would be to spread out the number of migrants so the strain would not be on "one or two border communities." "The president likes the idea and Democrats have said they want these individuals into their communities so let's see if it works and everybody gets a win out of it," Sanders said. "Again, this is not the ideal situation." Trump tweeted on Saturday evening that the U.S. had the "absolute legal right to have apprehended illegal immigrants transferred to Sanctuary Cities." But the plan had already been eschewed twice. People with knowledge of the discussions say it was first brought to the Department of Homeland Security from White House staff in November, and was again discussed in February but was put down after DHS officials reviewed it and found it was too costly, a misuse of funds and would be too timely. The people were not authorized to speak publicly and spoke on condition of anonymity. It actually could make it more difficult for Immigration and Customs Enforcement officers to arrest people facing deportation because sanctuary cities do not work with ICE. The Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse at Syracuse University announced last week that an analysis found that immigrants in sanctuary cities are 20% less likely to be arrested out in the community than in cities without such policies. Democrats criticized the White House proposal as a political stunt that used humans as pawns and would not work. "Look, you can't threaten somebody with something they're not afraid of," said Gov. Jay Inslee of Washington state, a candidate for president. "And we are not afraid of diversity in the state of Washington. We relish it. It is the basis of our economic and cultural success. We're built as a state of immigrants." The chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee, Rep. Bennie Thompson, D-Miss., questioned the legality of the proposal. "This is again his manufactured chaos that he's created over the last two years on the border," Thompson said of Trump, adding Democrats were more than willing to sit down and talk about immigration legislation. But Sen. Rick Scott, R-Fla., said sanctuary cities showed contempt for the law, though he didn't know whether there were any legal concerns with transporting migrants to the locales. "I mean, maybe he's just saying this to make everybody crazy," he said of Trump. Sanders appears on ABC's "This Week" and "Fox News Sunday." Scott was on CNN's "State of the Union" and Inslee was on NBC's "Meet the Press." Thompson appeared on ABC.Supported by By Ben Hubbard BEIRUT, Lebanon — An American woman who was stuck illegally in Saudi Arabia with her young daughter after her Saudi husband divorced her said on Sunday that the Saudi authorities had granted her legal residency after The New York Times wrote about her ordeal last week. The woman, Bethany Vierra of Washington State, moved to the kingdom in 2011, where she started a business, married a Saudi businessman and gave birth to a daughter, Zaina. Her troubles began after the divorce, when her former husband failed to renew her residency, meaning she was in the kingdom illegally but was also blocked from traveling through airports or accessing her bank account. Ms. Vierra’s case showed how even an American woman and her Saudi-American daughter could be ensnared by the kingdom’s so-called guardianship laws, which grant Saudi men power over women in a number of ways. Much has changed for women in Saudi Arabia in recent years, as the crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, the day-to-day ruler, has pushed to open up society, lifting the ban on driving by women, allowing women to enter sports stadiums and appointing the kingdom’s first female ambassador, to the United States. Ms. Vierra’s case also showed how the kingdom’s authorities could intervene, either out of sympathy or to avoid an international scandal. After her story appeared in The Times, it was picked by other media outlets, including Elle and Fox News. Ms. Vierra, 31, said on Sunday in a statement that Saudi officials had intervened in her case and “within hours, my residency issue was solved.” “I was never trying to escape Saudi Arabia,” Ms. Vierra wrote. “I have dedicated my life’s work to this country and being a part of its growth, development and vision for its future.” Ms. Vierra was granted residency as the mother of a Saudi citizen, a relatively new status that she had not been able to obtain after her divorce because her husband refused to provide the required paperwork, according to Nicole Carroll, her cousin. Ms. Vierra can now use her bank account and travel as she pleases. But her new status does not apply to Zaina, 4, whose legal guardian under Saudi law remains her father, Ms. Vierra’s ex-husband. Zaina cannot leave the country without his permission, which he has not granted, Ms. Carroll said. Ms. Carroll said it remained to be seen whether the Saudi authorities would grant Ms. Vierra the right to travel abroad with Zaina without the father’s permission. He recently sued Ms. Vierra, Ms. Carroll said, so the couple have several cases pending in Saudi courts, generally related to issues like custody. “If it is true and this is a possibility, I suppose it means the country is actually moving forward in the right direction on this,” Ms. Carroll said of her cousin’s new ability to travel to see relatives in the United States. Ms. Carroll asked that the name of Ms. Vierra’s former husband not be published to avoid provoking his family. He did not respond to a request for comment. Follow Ben Hubbard on Twitter: @NYTBen.   

Supported by By Ben Hubbard BEIRUT, Lebanon — An American woman who was stuck illegally in Saudi Arabia with her young daughter after her Saudi husband divorced her said on Sunday that the Saudi authorities had granted her legal residency after The New York Times wrote about her ordeal last week. The woman, Bethany Vierra of Washington State, moved to the kingdom in 2011, where she started a business, married a Saudi businessman and gave birth to a daughter, Zaina. Her troubles began after the divorce, when her former husband failed to renew her residency, meaning she was in the kingdom illegally but was also blocked from traveling through airports or accessing her bank account. Ms. Vierra’s case showed how even an American woman and her Saudi-American daughter could be ensnared by the kingdom’s so-called guardianship laws, which grant Saudi men power over women in a number of ways. Much has changed for women in Saudi Arabia in recent years, as the crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, the day-to-day ruler, has pushed to open up society, lifting the ban on driving by women, allowing women to enter sports stadiums and appointing the kingdom’s first female ambassador, to the United States. Ms. Vierra’s case also showed how the kingdom’s authorities could intervene, either out of sympathy or to avoid an international scandal. After her story appeared in The Times, it was picked by other media outlets, including Elle and Fox News. Ms. Vierra, 31, said on Sunday in a statement that Saudi officials had intervened in her case and “within hours, my residency issue was solved.” “I was never trying to escape Saudi Arabia,” Ms. Vierra wrote. “I have dedicated my life’s work to this country and being a part of its growth, development and vision for its future.” Ms. Vierra was granted residency as the mother of a Saudi citizen, a relatively new status that she had not been able to obtain after her divorce because her husband refused to provide the required paperwork, according to Nicole Carroll, her cousin. Ms. Vierra can now use her bank account and travel as she pleases. But her new status does not apply to Zaina, 4, whose legal guardian under Saudi law remains her father, Ms. Vierra’s ex-husband. Zaina cannot leave the country without his permission, which he has not granted, Ms. Carroll said. Ms. Carroll said it remained to be seen whether the Saudi authorities would grant Ms. Vierra the right to travel abroad with Zaina without the father’s permission. He recently sued Ms. Vierra, Ms. Carroll said, so the couple have several cases pending in Saudi courts, generally related to issues like custody. “If it is true and this is a possibility, I suppose it means the country is actually moving forward in the right direction on this,” Ms. Carroll said of her cousin’s new ability to travel to see relatives in the United States. Ms. Carroll asked that the name of Ms. Vierra’s former husband not be published to avoid provoking his family. He did not respond to a request for comment. Follow Ben Hubbard on Twitter: @NYTBen.   Supported by Best of Late Night By Giovanni Russonello Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox. Stephen Colbert was disappointed to learn that Paul Manafort, President Trump’s former campaign chairman, had been sentenced on Thursday to less than four years in prison for financial fraud. That is far less than the roughly two decades recommended under sentencing guidelines. But Colbert pointed out that there was still a chance Manafort would do more time: Next week, he will be sentenced in a separate trial. “Manafort will receive a second jail sentence from a different federal judge for witness tampering and money laundering. You know you’re in trouble when the only time you get out of jail is to go get sentenced to more jail.” — STEPHEN COLBERT James Corden said that with so many members of Trump’s inner circle being prosecuted, Manafort might feel right at home in prison. “I mean, at this point so many of Trump’s people are headed to jail, it’s going to feel like a high school reunion.” — JAMES CORDEN Colbert revisited the testimony of Michael Cohen, Trump’s former lawyer, who insisted during a congressional hearing last week that he would not accept a pardon if the president offered him one. Colbert said it felt funny to hear Cohen try to take the moral high road. “Checks reimbursing me for paying off a porn star? Yes. Pardons? No. I have my dignity!” — STEPHEN COLBERT, impersonating Michael Cohen “Google is currently working on a new Android feature that would allow users to store a digital version of their driver’s license on their phone. You have to admit, Google is definitely making it easier and more convenient — for your personal information to be stolen by Google.” — JAMES CORDEN “This week Hillary Clinton said she will not run for president again. She’s not going to run. As a result, Fox News is down to one minute of daily programming. The rest is all catheter ads, I believe.” — CONAN O’BRIEN The Jonas Brothers spent all week with Corden on “The Late Late Show.” There was no way they were going to escape without recording an installment of Carpool Karaoke. How can music and dance tell the story of migration? That’s a question that Carnegie Hall and more than 75 partner organizations hope to answer this weekend, with a festival called “Migrations: The Making of America.” It focuses on three major migrations that changed New York City. Plus, Ideas for What to Watch Tonight: The 50 Best Movies on Netflix Right Now The 25 Best Films of the 21st Century The Best Movies on Amazon Prime Video Right Now

Supported by Best of Late Night By Giovanni Russonello Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox. Stephen Colbert was disappointed to learn that Paul Manafort, President Trump’s former campaign chairman, had been sentenced on Thursday to less than four years in prison for financial fraud. That is far less than the roughly two decades recommended under sentencing guidelines. But Colbert pointed out that there was still a chance Manafort would do more time: Next week, he will be sentenced in a separate trial. “Manafort will receive a second jail sentence from a different federal judge for witness tampering and money laundering. You know you’re in trouble when the only time you get out of jail is to go get sentenced to more jail.” — STEPHEN COLBERT James Corden said that with so many members of Trump’s inner circle being prosecuted, Manafort might feel right at home in prison. “I mean, at this point so many of Trump’s people are headed to jail, it’s going to feel like a high school reunion.” — JAMES CORDEN Colbert revisited the testimony of Michael Cohen, Trump’s former lawyer, who insisted during a congressional hearing last week that he would not accept a pardon if the president offered him one. Colbert said it felt funny to hear Cohen try to take the moral high road. “Checks reimbursing me for paying off a porn star? Yes. Pardons? No. I have my dignity!” — STEPHEN COLBERT, impersonating Michael Cohen “Google is currently working on a new Android feature that would allow users to store a digital version of their driver’s license on their phone. You have to admit, Google is definitely making it easier and more convenient — for your personal information to be stolen by Google.” — JAMES CORDEN “This week Hillary Clinton said she will not run for president again. She’s not going to run. As a result, Fox News is down to one minute of daily programming. The rest is all catheter ads, I believe.” — CONAN O’BRIEN The Jonas Brothers spent all week with Corden on “The Late Late Show.” There was no way they were going to escape without recording an installment of Carpool Karaoke. How can music and dance tell the story of migration? That’s a question that Carnegie Hall and more than 75 partner organizations hope to answer this weekend, with a festival called “Migrations: The Making of America.” It focuses on three major migrations that changed New York City. Plus, Ideas for What to Watch Tonight: The 50 Best Movies on Netflix Right Now The 25 Best Films of the 21st Century The Best Movies on Amazon Prime Video Right NowSupported by By Michael Tackett WASHINGTON — As political props go, the one in the middle of the conference table during President Trump’s cabinet meeting on Wednesday was as hard to miss as it was baffling. It was a movie-style poster of the president in a bestride-the-colossus pose, hair lacquered in place, gaze serious and purposeful, with the words “SANCTIONS ARE COMING NOVEMBER 4” emblazoned across the middle. Mr. Trump did not talk about the poster. Nor did any of his cabinet members seated around him, or even Vice President Mike Pence, who was sitting directly in front of it. And he made no connection to the date on the poster — two days before Election Day. But in November he had tweeted a picture of the poster, with the date of Nov. 5, to announce that sanctions against Iran, which had been repealed when President Barack Obama signed a nuclear agreement with the country in 2015, were going to be reimposed. And as he took questions from reporters on Wednesday, Mr. Trump mentioned that Iran was now a much different country, apparently because of the sanctions that the United States had imposed. “They’re having riots every week, in every city — bigger than they’ve ever had before,” Mr. Trump said. “Their currency is under siege thanks to us. A lot of bad things are happening. When we do all of the things that we’ve done monetarily to Iran, Iran is in trouble.” But no reference to the poster, which when it was first shown instantly drew comparisons to HBO’s “Game of Thrones,” a fantasy series whose mantra is “Winter is Coming.” At the time of the tweet, HBO responded on Twitter. When asked about the poster on Thursday morning on Fox News, Kellyanne Conway, counselor to the president, responded. “Ah, that’s just the president saying ‘sanctions are coming Nov. 4.’ I think the president speaking for 95 minutes shows his transparency.” The White House did not respond to a request for additional comment on Thursday. But the president delivered one of his own, posting a variation of the poster on his Instagram account that said, “THE WALL IS COMING.”   

Supported by By Michael Tackett WASHINGTON — As political props go, the one in the middle of the conference table during President Trump’s cabinet meeting on Wednesday was as hard to miss as it was baffling. It was a movie-style poster of the president in a bestride-the-colossus pose, hair lacquered in place, gaze serious and purposeful, with the words “SANCTIONS ARE COMING NOVEMBER 4” emblazoned across the middle. Mr. Trump did not talk about the poster. Nor did any of his cabinet members seated around him, or even Vice President Mike Pence, who was sitting directly in front of it. And he made no connection to the date on the poster — two days before Election Day. But in November he had tweeted a picture of the poster, with the date of Nov. 5, to announce that sanctions against Iran, which had been repealed when President Barack Obama signed a nuclear agreement with the country in 2015, were going to be reimposed. And as he took questions from reporters on Wednesday, Mr. Trump mentioned that Iran was now a much different country, apparently because of the sanctions that the United States had imposed. “They’re having riots every week, in every city — bigger than they’ve ever had before,” Mr. Trump said. “Their currency is under siege thanks to us. A lot of bad things are happening. When we do all of the things that we’ve done monetarily to Iran, Iran is in trouble.” But no reference to the poster, which when it was first shown instantly drew comparisons to HBO’s “Game of Thrones,” a fantasy series whose mantra is “Winter is Coming.” At the time of the tweet, HBO responded on Twitter. When asked about the poster on Thursday morning on Fox News, Kellyanne Conway, counselor to the president, responded. “Ah, that’s just the president saying ‘sanctions are coming Nov. 4.’ I think the president speaking for 95 minutes shows his transparency.” The White House did not respond to a request for additional comment on Thursday. But the president delivered one of his own, posting a variation of the poster on his Instagram account that said, “THE WALL IS COMING.”   Supported by By Norimitsu Onishi JOHANNESBURG — Two white South African farmers were sentenced to a combined 41 years in prison on Wednesday for killing a black teenager whom they had accused of stealing sunflowers, bringing to a close a case that had inflamed tensions in a rural town and exposed the nation’s enduring racial divisions. During a hearing at the High Court in Mahikeng that was packed with black and white South Africans, Judge Ronald Hendricks described the actions of the farmers, who were convicted of throwing the 15-year-old boy off a moving truck in April 2017, as “disgraceful” and “appalling.” The boy, Matlhomola Mosweu, died after breaking his neck. His death set off riots in the town of Coligny, about 125 miles west of Johannesburg. The two farmers — Pieter Doorewaard, 28, and Phillip Schutte, 35 — were found guilty of murder, kidnapping and other charges. Mr. Doorewaard was sentenced to 18 years in prison, and Mr. Schutte to 23 years. They had claimed that after they caught Mr. Mosweu stealing, they put him on the truck to take him to a police station. But the teenager, they said, then jumped off the vehicle. The judge ruled that the killing had not been planned or premeditated, but had “happened on the spur of the moment.” He added, “The community of Coligny was terrorized by this.” The killing prompted days of rioting and looting in the farming town, especially against white-owned businesses. As in all of South Africa, one of the world’s most unequal societies, racial tensions had simmered just below the surface in Coligny, where farms and other businesses are still largely owned by whites and other individuals who are not black South Africans. Most black residents, who depend on white-owned farms for work, live in a nearby township. Mr. Mosweu had lived in a shantytown for newer arrivals, called Scotland informal settlement. The courtroom was filled with members of the Economic Freedom Fighters, an opposition party that has long pushed for the expropriation of white-owned land without compensation. Pressure from the party, a spinoff of the governing African National Congress, has compelled the A.N.C. to adopt a similar position under President Cyril Ramaphosa. Tensions between white farmers and black residents have grown across the country since the A.N.C. adopted the policy in December 2017. Mr. Ramaphosa has tried to assuage fears in and outside South Africa that the policy would not lead to violence or economic turmoil, but most investors are taking a wait-and-see attitude before national elections in May. Lobby groups for white farmers have accused the South African authorities of covering up what they say is the widespread, racially motivated killings of white farmers. While there is no evidence to support their claims, some have visited the United States to win support for their cause. Right-wing groups and news outlets in the United States have fanned reports that such killings, and even genocide, are being perpetrated against white South Africans. Last August, President Trump, apparently reacting to a report on Fox News, said on Twitter that he was directing his secretary of state to look into what he described as the targeting of white farmers for land grabs and “large-scale killing” in South Africa.   

Supported by By Norimitsu Onishi JOHANNESBURG — Two white South African farmers were sentenced to a combined 41 years in prison on Wednesday for killing a black teenager whom they had accused of stealing sunflowers, bringing to a close a case that had inflamed tensions in a rural town and exposed the nation’s enduring racial divisions. During a hearing at the High Court in Mahikeng that was packed with black and white South Africans, Judge Ronald Hendricks described the actions of the farmers, who were convicted of throwing the 15-year-old boy off a moving truck in April 2017, as “disgraceful” and “appalling.” The boy, Matlhomola Mosweu, died after breaking his neck. His death set off riots in the town of Coligny, about 125 miles west of Johannesburg. The two farmers — Pieter Doorewaard, 28, and Phillip Schutte, 35 — were found guilty of murder, kidnapping and other charges. Mr. Doorewaard was sentenced to 18 years in prison, and Mr. Schutte to 23 years. They had claimed that after they caught Mr. Mosweu stealing, they put him on the truck to take him to a police station. But the teenager, they said, then jumped off the vehicle. The judge ruled that the killing had not been planned or premeditated, but had “happened on the spur of the moment.” He added, “The community of Coligny was terrorized by this.” The killing prompted days of rioting and looting in the farming town, especially against white-owned businesses. As in all of South Africa, one of the world’s most unequal societies, racial tensions had simmered just below the surface in Coligny, where farms and other businesses are still largely owned by whites and other individuals who are not black South Africans. Most black residents, who depend on white-owned farms for work, live in a nearby township. Mr. Mosweu had lived in a shantytown for newer arrivals, called Scotland informal settlement. The courtroom was filled with members of the Economic Freedom Fighters, an opposition party that has long pushed for the expropriation of white-owned land without compensation. Pressure from the party, a spinoff of the governing African National Congress, has compelled the A.N.C. to adopt a similar position under President Cyril Ramaphosa. Tensions between white farmers and black residents have grown across the country since the A.N.C. adopted the policy in December 2017. Mr. Ramaphosa has tried to assuage fears in and outside South Africa that the policy would not lead to violence or economic turmoil, but most investors are taking a wait-and-see attitude before national elections in May. Lobby groups for white farmers have accused the South African authorities of covering up what they say is the widespread, racially motivated killings of white farmers. While there is no evidence to support their claims, some have visited the United States to win support for their cause. Right-wing groups and news outlets in the United States have fanned reports that such killings, and even genocide, are being perpetrated against white South Africans. Last August, President Trump, apparently reacting to a report on Fox News, said on Twitter that he was directing his secretary of state to look into what he described as the targeting of white farmers for land grabs and “large-scale killing” in South Africa.   

      By CHRIS STANFORD and 
    
ANNA SCHAVERIEN

MARCH 22, 2019
 
Did you stay up to date this week? Take our quiz to find out.

Last week, the question about the last country to ground to Boeing 737 Max 8 airplanes had the highest share of correct answers, with 96 percent. Only 58 percent knew which country’s president said he would not seek a fifth term.

The news quiz is published on Friday mornings. Click here for other weeks’ quizzes.
 Nearly a week after southern Africa was hit by one of the worst natural disasters in decades, rescue workers were struggling to reach the victims. In grappling with the scope of the devastation, aid groups estimated that Cyclone Idai destroyed 90 percent of Beira, a port city of half a million people in which country? Kenya Mozambique Namibia Zimbabwe European regulators fined which tech company 1.5 billion euros, or about $1.7 billion, for antitrust violations? Amazon Facebook Google Uber The Food and Drug Administration approved the first drug specifically designed to treat depression in which group?  The elderly New mothers Pets Teenagers An unexpected announcement by John Bercow disrupted Prime Minister Theresa May’s Brexit plans, less than two weeks before the deadline for Britain to withdraw from the European Union. Which position does Mr. Bercow hold? Brexit secretary Leader of the Democratic Unionist Party President of the European Council Speaker of the House of Commons A company whose product is a symbol of Americana began trading shares publicly for the second time in its 165-year history. Name the company. Coca-Cola Colt Hershey Levi Strauss After 30 years in power, Nursultan Nazarbayev made the surprise announcement that he was stepping down as the president of which country, a former Soviet Republic? Azerbaijan Kazakhstan Turkmenistan Uzbekistan The musician and sound pioneer Dick Dale died last Saturday at 81. His hit song “Misirlou” re-entered the mainstream in 1994 when it appeared on the soundtrack for Quentin Tarantino’s film “Pulp Fiction.” Mr. Dale  was known as the King of which type of music?    Bluegrass banjo  Latin drums    Ragtime piano  Surf guitar Britain’s National Portrait Gallery announced that it would not accept a long-discussed $1.3 million donation from the charitable arm of the Sackler family. The decision is the latest sign of the changing climate in the art world toward the family, because of its association with what? Historical ties to the slave trade The opioid crisis The smuggling of artifacts  Sweatshops Karen Uhlenbeck was announced as this year’s recipient for the Abel Prize. She is the first woman to ever win the $700,000 award, which honors work in which field?  Economics Law Mathematics Political science Fox News removed a prime-time show after its host questioned the patriotism of a Muslim lawmaker. Name the host. Tucker Carlson  Ainsley Earhardt Sean Hannity  Jeanine Pirro For the first time since 2006, which team did not earn a No. 1 seed in the N.C.A.A. women’s basketball tournament this year? Connecticut Louisville Maryland Stanford



      By CHRIS STANFORD and 
    
ANNA SCHAVERIEN

MARCH 22, 2019
 
Did you stay up to date this week? Take our quiz to find out.

Last week, the question about the last country to ground to Boeing 737 Max 8 airplanes had the highest share of correct answers, with 96 percent. Only 58 percent knew which country’s president said he would not seek a fifth term.

The news quiz is published on Friday mornings. Click here for other weeks’ quizzes.
 Nearly a week after southern Africa was hit by one of the worst natural disasters in decades, rescue workers were struggling to reach the victims. In grappling with the scope of the devastation, aid groups estimated that Cyclone Idai destroyed 90 percent of Beira, a port city of half a million people in which country? Kenya Mozambique Namibia Zimbabwe European regulators fined which tech company 1.5 billion euros, or about $1.7 billion, for antitrust violations? Amazon Facebook Google Uber The Food and Drug Administration approved the first drug specifically designed to treat depression in which group?  The elderly New mothers Pets Teenagers An unexpected announcement by John Bercow disrupted Prime Minister Theresa May’s Brexit plans, less than two weeks before the deadline for Britain to withdraw from the European Union. Which position does Mr. Bercow hold? Brexit secretary Leader of the Democratic Unionist Party President of the European Council Speaker of the House of Commons A company whose product is a symbol of Americana began trading shares publicly for the second time in its 165-year history. Name the company. Coca-Cola Colt Hershey Levi Strauss After 30 years in power, Nursultan Nazarbayev made the surprise announcement that he was stepping down as the president of which country, a former Soviet Republic? Azerbaijan Kazakhstan Turkmenistan Uzbekistan The musician and sound pioneer Dick Dale died last Saturday at 81. His hit song “Misirlou” re-entered the mainstream in 1994 when it appeared on the soundtrack for Quentin Tarantino’s film “Pulp Fiction.” Mr. Dale  was known as the King of which type of music?    Bluegrass banjo  Latin drums    Ragtime piano  Surf guitar Britain’s National Portrait Gallery announced that it would not accept a long-discussed $1.3 million donation from the charitable arm of the Sackler family. The decision is the latest sign of the changing climate in the art world toward the family, because of its association with what? Historical ties to the slave trade The opioid crisis The smuggling of artifacts  Sweatshops Karen Uhlenbeck was announced as this year’s recipient for the Abel Prize. She is the first woman to ever win the $700,000 award, which honors work in which field?  Economics Law Mathematics Political science Fox News removed a prime-time show after its host questioned the patriotism of a Muslim lawmaker. Name the host. Tucker Carlson  Ainsley Earhardt Sean Hannity  Jeanine Pirro For the first time since 2006, which team did not earn a No. 1 seed in the N.C.A.A. women’s basketball tournament this year? Connecticut Louisville Maryland StanfordSupported by Screenland By Charles Homans Sean Spicer spent nearly 20 years as a conventional Republican spokesman, but nobody besides Spicer himself, probably, remembers much about them. All of that was incinerated in the atomic blast of Spicer’s first appearance as Donald Trump’s press secretary, which, perhaps more than any other single moment, signaled America’s entry into a new political age, and the permanent irretrievability of the old one. You remember the highlights: the absurd insistence on crowd sizes and the weird forced anger, which ebbed and flowed erratically, as if Spicer were occasionally re-encountering “[BE ANGRY]” in the stage directions. Or you remember Melissa McCarthy’s parodies on “Saturday Night Live,” whose implicit emasculation of Spicer enraged Trump. Or perhaps you remember what was then a new experience and is now a familiar one: the dawning realization that all of it — the news conference and the late-night skits alike — existed for an audience of one man, to soothe or infuriate a consciousness that, it was fast becoming clear, was mostly mediated by the flickering screen in the dining room adjoining the Oval Office. Anyway: Two years and one month later, here is Spicer, once again addressing the nation, or at least the subpopulation of it that watches Glenn Beck’s BlazeTV cable channel. It is the State of the Union after-party at the Trump International Hotel, which BlazeTV is broadcasting live. The host, Eric Bolling, is seated in a chair before a shuffling frieze of partygoers, who are trying to not look at the camera but not trying very hard, smiles and postures fixed in self-awareness. Bolling is a commodities trader turned Fox Business host turned Fox News host turned former Fox News host (there was an investigation into lewd text messages, though he has denied sending them) turned author of a book called “The Swamp: Washington’s Murky Pool of Corruption and Cronyism and How Trump Can Drain It.” The book’s title gives some indication of the intensity and originality of Bolling’s commitment to the president, for whom Bolling once volunteered to work at a salary of $1. At issue, though, is the commitment of Spicer, who is sitting in the neighboring chair. “All right, Spicer, I love you,” Bolling says. “By the way, Sean Spicer may not know this — you may not love Spicer’s politics, I’ve never loved your politics. I never have —” Spicer curses in performative surprise. “What are you talking about, Bolling?” It’s worth mentioning here that both Spicer and Bolling look and sound as if they are several drinks into the evening. (It is an after-party, after all.) Unprovably so — the outlets that reported on the exchange opted to hang quotation marks around the word “drunk” — but there is a lot of slurring, swaying, grappling with each other’s arms. “You have the biggest heart of anyone I know,” Bolling says. “But don’t tell me you were agnostic at the R.N.C.” Spicer served as the Republican National Committee’s communications director during the 2016 election. “You guys told Trump not to run!” There’s a faint Central Committee vibe to the scene: the weaponized booziness, the grinning onlookers in business attire and MAGA hats, the edge to Bolling’s I-love-you-man bonhomie. “That’s not true!” Spicer protests before commencing the requisite self-criticism. “Here’s my point — you had a previous guest, Katrina Pierson.” Pierson, a Tea Party activist turned Trump TV surrogate and 2020 campaign adviser, had been sitting in Spicer’s seat moments earlier. “My point is, she was with him from the beginning. I didn’t. I, like — my point is, I am agnostic. I wanted to win and beat Hillary. Katrina Pierson, who was on here just before I am, before I ever was there” — there’s some cross-talk here, some protestations, some more laying on of hands — “hold on, just stop, listen to me! She was with him when no one was with him.” Even a year and a half into his private life, Spicer remains a mere disciple laboring in the shadow of apostles, struggling to convince them of his dedication and worth, an effort that somehow always ends in his further humiliation. After Spicer’s ship-burning first news conference, Trump reportedly complained to an aide about his suit. When, the following month, Spicer gathered his communications team and told them that White House lawyers were going to search their phones to find who had been leaking to Politico reporters, and the fact that he had done so swiftly leaked (of course) to Politico, Trump castigated him: “Sean, what were you thinking?” (“Of all my experiences with the president,” Spicer wrote in “The Briefing,” his memoir, “that one was the worst.”) Five months later, Trump would hire Anthony Scaramucci as his communications director to do exactly what he had reprimanded Spicer for: “He’s going to find the leakers,” Trump told the West Wing staff, Scaramucci later recounted in a Vanity Fair interview. Spicer, who was in the room, quit the same day, but his attempts to negotiate a dignified exit were kneecapped by gleefully reported whispers (which he hotly denied) that he’d tried to steal a mini-fridge from junior White House staff. What was Spicer’s problem, exactly? All presidencies have their insiders and outsiders, but Spicer’s doomed quest to prove his loyalty illustrates what has always made the Trump White House different. Trump’s compulsive lying and his fixation on loyalty and humiliation have created, by incident or by design, a political culture that in its basic sociology would be familiar to any student of personality-cult politics. Advantage naturally belongs to the loyalists who, by virtue of fanaticism or lack of principle, are most comfortable repeating the lies of the leader; the lies then become a powerful tool for marginalizing potential competitors who, through lack of loyalty or the presence of at least faint principles, hesitate even momentarily in repeating them. Humiliation, in this system, is at once a potent weapon and, when it sticks, a mark of shame. It immediately makes the recipient an object of suspicion, indicating allegiances to some sort of social or professional norms external to the leader’s circle. This is what separated Spicer from Scaramucci, who embraced his role with panache, or Sarah Huckabee Sanders, who does it with dead-eyed indifference. In his recent memoir, “Team of Vipers,” Cliff Sims, who worked (unhappily) with Spicer and drafted the talking points for that first White House news conference, describes watching Spicer before he stepped out onto the briefing-room podium: “In those last few minutes, as he prepared to throw away whatever credibility he’d built over decades in Washington, Spicer was quiet as a church mouse, almost like he was walking to his own execution.” In Trump’s view, Sims writes, Spicer was “never really one of his guys.” This is the thing that, even now, a minor cable pundit can still hold over Spicer’s head, compelling him to prostrate himself before these frozen-smiled strangers on live television. It is the thing, in Trump’s Washington, no one can ever really live down.

Supported by Screenland By Charles Homans Sean Spicer spent nearly 20 years as a conventional Republican spokesman, but nobody besides Spicer himself, probably, remembers much about them. All of that was incinerated in the atomic blast of Spicer’s first appearance as Donald Trump’s press secretary, which, perhaps more than any other single moment, signaled America’s entry into a new political age, and the permanent irretrievability of the old one. You remember the highlights: the absurd insistence on crowd sizes and the weird forced anger, which ebbed and flowed erratically, as if Spicer were occasionally re-encountering “[BE ANGRY]” in the stage directions. Or you remember Melissa McCarthy’s parodies on “Saturday Night Live,” whose implicit emasculation of Spicer enraged Trump. Or perhaps you remember what was then a new experience and is now a familiar one: the dawning realization that all of it — the news conference and the late-night skits alike — existed for an audience of one man, to soothe or infuriate a consciousness that, it was fast becoming clear, was mostly mediated by the flickering screen in the dining room adjoining the Oval Office. Anyway: Two years and one month later, here is Spicer, once again addressing the nation, or at least the subpopulation of it that watches Glenn Beck’s BlazeTV cable channel. It is the State of the Union after-party at the Trump International Hotel, which BlazeTV is broadcasting live. The host, Eric Bolling, is seated in a chair before a shuffling frieze of partygoers, who are trying to not look at the camera but not trying very hard, smiles and postures fixed in self-awareness. Bolling is a commodities trader turned Fox Business host turned Fox News host turned former Fox News host (there was an investigation into lewd text messages, though he has denied sending them) turned author of a book called “The Swamp: Washington’s Murky Pool of Corruption and Cronyism and How Trump Can Drain It.” The book’s title gives some indication of the intensity and originality of Bolling’s commitment to the president, for whom Bolling once volunteered to work at a salary of $1. At issue, though, is the commitment of Spicer, who is sitting in the neighboring chair. “All right, Spicer, I love you,” Bolling says. “By the way, Sean Spicer may not know this — you may not love Spicer’s politics, I’ve never loved your politics. I never have —” Spicer curses in performative surprise. “What are you talking about, Bolling?” It’s worth mentioning here that both Spicer and Bolling look and sound as if they are several drinks into the evening. (It is an after-party, after all.) Unprovably so — the outlets that reported on the exchange opted to hang quotation marks around the word “drunk” — but there is a lot of slurring, swaying, grappling with each other’s arms. “You have the biggest heart of anyone I know,” Bolling says. “But don’t tell me you were agnostic at the R.N.C.” Spicer served as the Republican National Committee’s communications director during the 2016 election. “You guys told Trump not to run!” There’s a faint Central Committee vibe to the scene: the weaponized booziness, the grinning onlookers in business attire and MAGA hats, the edge to Bolling’s I-love-you-man bonhomie. “That’s not true!” Spicer protests before commencing the requisite self-criticism. “Here’s my point — you had a previous guest, Katrina Pierson.” Pierson, a Tea Party activist turned Trump TV surrogate and 2020 campaign adviser, had been sitting in Spicer’s seat moments earlier. “My point is, she was with him from the beginning. I didn’t. I, like — my point is, I am agnostic. I wanted to win and beat Hillary. Katrina Pierson, who was on here just before I am, before I ever was there” — there’s some cross-talk here, some protestations, some more laying on of hands — “hold on, just stop, listen to me! She was with him when no one was with him.” Even a year and a half into his private life, Spicer remains a mere disciple laboring in the shadow of apostles, struggling to convince them of his dedication and worth, an effort that somehow always ends in his further humiliation. After Spicer’s ship-burning first news conference, Trump reportedly complained to an aide about his suit. When, the following month, Spicer gathered his communications team and told them that White House lawyers were going to search their phones to find who had been leaking to Politico reporters, and the fact that he had done so swiftly leaked (of course) to Politico, Trump castigated him: “Sean, what were you thinking?” (“Of all my experiences with the president,” Spicer wrote in “The Briefing,” his memoir, “that one was the worst.”) Five months later, Trump would hire Anthony Scaramucci as his communications director to do exactly what he had reprimanded Spicer for: “He’s going to find the leakers,” Trump told the West Wing staff, Scaramucci later recounted in a Vanity Fair interview. Spicer, who was in the room, quit the same day, but his attempts to negotiate a dignified exit were kneecapped by gleefully reported whispers (which he hotly denied) that he’d tried to steal a mini-fridge from junior White House staff. What was Spicer’s problem, exactly? All presidencies have their insiders and outsiders, but Spicer’s doomed quest to prove his loyalty illustrates what has always made the Trump White House different. Trump’s compulsive lying and his fixation on loyalty and humiliation have created, by incident or by design, a political culture that in its basic sociology would be familiar to any student of personality-cult politics. Advantage naturally belongs to the loyalists who, by virtue of fanaticism or lack of principle, are most comfortable repeating the lies of the leader; the lies then become a powerful tool for marginalizing potential competitors who, through lack of loyalty or the presence of at least faint principles, hesitate even momentarily in repeating them. Humiliation, in this system, is at once a potent weapon and, when it sticks, a mark of shame. It immediately makes the recipient an object of suspicion, indicating allegiances to some sort of social or professional norms external to the leader’s circle. This is what separated Spicer from Scaramucci, who embraced his role with panache, or Sarah Huckabee Sanders, who does it with dead-eyed indifference. In his recent memoir, “Team of Vipers,” Cliff Sims, who worked (unhappily) with Spicer and drafted the talking points for that first White House news conference, describes watching Spicer before he stepped out onto the briefing-room podium: “In those last few minutes, as he prepared to throw away whatever credibility he’d built over decades in Washington, Spicer was quiet as a church mouse, almost like he was walking to his own execution.” In Trump’s view, Sims writes, Spicer was “never really one of his guys.” This is the thing that, even now, a minor cable pundit can still hold over Spicer’s head, compelling him to prostrate himself before these frozen-smiled strangers on live television. It is the thing, in Trump’s Washington, no one can ever really live down.Supported by Best of Late Night By Giovanni Russonello Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox. President Trump has drawn fire from some critics for his response to the shootings at two mosques in Christchurch, New Zealand, on Friday that left 50 people dead. The suspect in the attack had praised Trump in a manifesto, calling him “a symbol of renewed white identity and common purpose.” Stephen Colbert played a tape of New Zealand’s prime minister, Jacinda Ardern, saying that she had asked Trump to express his “sympathy and love for all Muslim communities.” Colbert then joked that he didn’t expect that to pan out. “That’s not really Trump’s brand. Trump has trouble showing love for things that are not him. And he has a particularly bad record with Muslims, in this regard.” — STEPHEN COLBERT Trump did publicly express his sympathies for the victims, but Colbert was not satisfied. Over the weekend, Trump continued to push for the building of a border wall, using the word “invasion” to describe the flow of immigrants on the southern border. (The New Zealand gunman also used that word). And the president tweeted his discontent with Fox News after it suspended the host Jeanine Pirro because she expressed anti-Muslim views. “On the one hand, after a terrorist act, to condemn the extremist ideology of the terrorist should be a slam dunk. On the other hand, he can’t jump." — STEPHEN COLBERT Colbert played clips of Mick Mulvaney, the president’s acting chief of staff, on the Sunday morning news shows explaining that he couldn’t be held responsible for how Trump responded to the New Zealand shootings. “That’s not how the system works,” Mulvaney said on CBS’s “Face the Nation.” “The president communicates in his way.” “Mulvaney answered like the worst parent at the local school. ‘Uh, we don’t like to tell Braden what to do. He communicates in his own way, O.K.? And for the record, he’s not biting the other children. He’s kissing them with his teeth.” — STEPHEN COLBERT “President Trump this morning called former Vice President Joe Biden a ‘low-I.Q. individual.’ Wow. That’s gotta hurt. I mean Trump trying to pronounce, ‘individual.’” — SETH MEYERS “Health experts are saying that the snooze button is bad for your health, and they’re telling Apple to take the feature off of their phones. In response, Apple was like, ‘O.K., we’ll take it off, just give me like nine more minutes.’” — JIMMY FALLON Seth Meyers broke down Trump’s “unhinged Twitter rant” from this weekend. Jimmy Kimmel to a very unhygienic Nick Kroll: “I just want to get a bracket.” Senator Kamala Harris, who is running for president, will sit down with Kimmel on Tuesday. What’s on TV Tuesday? A new Amy Schumer Netflix special, the return of the Australian-born late-night host Jim Jefferies and much more, it turns out. Plus, Ideas for What to Watch Tonight: The 50 Best Movies on Netflix Right Now The 25 Best Films of the 21st Century The Best Movies on Amazon Prime Video Right Now

Supported by Best of Late Night By Giovanni Russonello Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox. President Trump has drawn fire from some critics for his response to the shootings at two mosques in Christchurch, New Zealand, on Friday that left 50 people dead. The suspect in the attack had praised Trump in a manifesto, calling him “a symbol of renewed white identity and common purpose.” Stephen Colbert played a tape of New Zealand’s prime minister, Jacinda Ardern, saying that she had asked Trump to express his “sympathy and love for all Muslim communities.” Colbert then joked that he didn’t expect that to pan out. “That’s not really Trump’s brand. Trump has trouble showing love for things that are not him. And he has a particularly bad record with Muslims, in this regard.” — STEPHEN COLBERT Trump did publicly express his sympathies for the victims, but Colbert was not satisfied. Over the weekend, Trump continued to push for the building of a border wall, using the word “invasion” to describe the flow of immigrants on the southern border. (The New Zealand gunman also used that word). And the president tweeted his discontent with Fox News after it suspended the host Jeanine Pirro because she expressed anti-Muslim views. “On the one hand, after a terrorist act, to condemn the extremist ideology of the terrorist should be a slam dunk. On the other hand, he can’t jump." — STEPHEN COLBERT Colbert played clips of Mick Mulvaney, the president’s acting chief of staff, on the Sunday morning news shows explaining that he couldn’t be held responsible for how Trump responded to the New Zealand shootings. “That’s not how the system works,” Mulvaney said on CBS’s “Face the Nation.” “The president communicates in his way.” “Mulvaney answered like the worst parent at the local school. ‘Uh, we don’t like to tell Braden what to do. He communicates in his own way, O.K.? And for the record, he’s not biting the other children. He’s kissing them with his teeth.” — STEPHEN COLBERT “President Trump this morning called former Vice President Joe Biden a ‘low-I.Q. individual.’ Wow. That’s gotta hurt. I mean Trump trying to pronounce, ‘individual.’” — SETH MEYERS “Health experts are saying that the snooze button is bad for your health, and they’re telling Apple to take the feature off of their phones. In response, Apple was like, ‘O.K., we’ll take it off, just give me like nine more minutes.’” — JIMMY FALLON Seth Meyers broke down Trump’s “unhinged Twitter rant” from this weekend. Jimmy Kimmel to a very unhygienic Nick Kroll: “I just want to get a bracket.” Senator Kamala Harris, who is running for president, will sit down with Kimmel on Tuesday. What’s on TV Tuesday? A new Amy Schumer Netflix special, the return of the Australian-born late-night host Jim Jefferies and much more, it turns out. Plus, Ideas for What to Watch Tonight: The 50 Best Movies on Netflix Right Now The 25 Best Films of the 21st Century The Best Movies on Amazon Prime Video Right NowSupported by By Glenn Thrush WASHINGTON — Representative Matt Gaetz of Florida came to Washington in 2017 with a reputation for bipartisan deal-cutting in the State Legislature — then spent a year idling behind the slow-moving minivans in the House Republican Conference like a Mustang stuck in traffic. So he decided to go the full Trump. With a near-constant presence on the president’s favorite network and a penchant for own-the-libs outrageousness, Mr. Gaetz has, in short order, become the lawmaker Democrats love to loathe. It is all part of the plan. “In a world where the body politic has the attention span at times of a goldfish, yep, you’ve got to have the ability to reinvent yourself in this game many times,” said Mr. Gaetz, who in his second term representing Florida’s western Panhandle has emerged as one of President Trump’s fiercest and most frequent defenders on Fox News, CNN and MSNBC. “I did one cable news hit during my first 10 months in Congress,” he said during an interview in his Capitol Hill office last week. “Yeah. And now it’s only a couple of years later and The New York Times is sitting in my office asking me about my life. The only thing that’s changed is a little bit of time and a whole hell of a lot of cable.” Many Republicans in Congress stick close to Mr. Trump’s feed-the-base strategy, but few are more naturally inclined to adopt the president’s brass-knuckles brand of politics than Mr. Gaetz, 36, the ambitious son of a former Florida State Senate president, Don Gaetz. “Matt feeds off disruption; it’s just this big adrenaline rush for him,” said Christian Ulvert, a Miami-based Democratic political consultant who met Mr. Gaetz at Florida State University in the early 2000s. “But it puts a ceiling on him, because it wears thin after a while, and it puts so many people off.” Steve Schale, a friend of Mr. Gaetz from Tallahassee who ran Barack Obama’s 2008 campaign in Florida, said he viewed it essentially as a game and “is adjusting as the rules shift.” There are not too many rules these days. Early last year, Mr. Gaetz brought Chuck Johnson, a right-wing activist who has questioned whether six million Jews really died in the Holocaust, to the State of the Union address. (This year Mr. Gaetz denounced anti-Semitism on the House floor.) He tried to expel two fathers who lost children to a gunman at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School from a hearing after they stood up to object to his claim that a wall on the Mexican border would save more lives than gun control. He has feuded with Rick Scott, the newly elected senator and former Republican governor of Florida, over Mr. Scott’s frosty relationship with his successor, Ron DeSantis, and Mr. Scott’s decision to block the elder Mr. Gaetz from garnering a plum university presidency. A month ago, on the eve of testimony by Mr. Trump’s former personal lawyer, Michael D. Cohen, he dashed off a Twitter post that brought him his biggest headlines and accusations of witness intimidation. “Hey @MichaelCohen212,” he wrote. “Do your wife & father-in-law know about your girlfriends? Maybe tonight would be a good time for that chat. I wonder if she’ll remain faithful when you’re in prison. She’s about to learn a lot…” Mr. Cohen’s lawyer, Lanny J. Davis, said Mr. Gaetz had peddled “despicable lies and personal smears.” Mr. Scott called it “disgusting.” The Florida Bar opened an investigation, still continuing, into whether the tweet should affect his ability to practice law in the state. He deleted it and issued a follow-up claiming that “it was NOT my intent to threaten.” The president loved it, and Mr. Gaetz has been less than contrite about the incident with Mr. Trump, according to an administration official who spoke to the president recently. “I wanted to cast him in a bad light,” Mr. Gaetz said of Mr. Cohen. But Mr. Gaetz is quick to say he is no one-dimensional Trump wingman. “I’m on the pro-science side of the Republican Party,” he added. “I mean, like, marijuana can help people live better lives as medicine, the earth is warming and nobody chooses to be gay.” Indeed, Mr. Gaetz — known as Baby Gaetz in Tallahassee to differentiate him from his more powerful father — made his reputation back home as a serious, if combative, legislator who played an instrumental role helping Mr. Scott, then the governor, kill efforts to expand Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act. He also joined with Democratic lawmakers to push marijuana legalization, and he persuaded his father in 2015 to join Democrats to pass a law that removed Florida’s ban on adoptions by same-sex couples. He initially supported Jeb Bush, the former Florida governor, for president in 2016 before jumping over to Mr. Trump. His father was a Bush supporter, and his younger sister worked on the Bush campaign as a video producer. Mr. Gaetz is also a passionate champion of animal rights. On the day of the Cohen tweet, he sent text messages to offer condolences to Mr. Schale after his dog died. When he served in the Florida House, he pushed to end greyhound racing. “Matt has played both the hero and the villain,” said Ryan Wiggins, a Republican political consultant who worked on his first congressional campaign. “I suspect he probably enjoys the reactions he gets when he makes people’s heads explode on the national stage.” With a promontory chin and crooked grin, Mr. Gaetz cultivates an air of genial menace, like a netherworld Jay Leno. His email handle in college was Gaetzofhell, a classmate recalled. His transition to Washington was bumpy. In early 2017, at a lunch for the incoming freshman class at the Capitol, he complained to table mates about how tough it was to be a backbencher and railed, in four-letter fashion, against the House Freedom Caucus — now his allies — for being “a bunch of obstructionists,” according to a person sitting nearby. “I would end my days exhausted,” Mr. Gaetz recalled. “I was unable to rationalize what I had done to make progress. If you can’t impact an outcome in this town you are an extra in the movie, and I do not want to do that.” He started tracking his Fox News appearances more carefully, and turned up the volume on his defenses of Mr. Trump, in part, he said, to gain more sway with the White House on local issues. He said he has used his private access to the president to help block drilling off the Gulf Coast — even if Mr. Trump just wants to critique his television appearances and mock his fashion choices. “What are the things you can do to impact an outcome?” he asked. “Well, the most valuable real estate in the world lies between the president’s ears. And if I can be a good friend and ally and influencer in calling to the president, then I can impact outcomes without having to be a whore for special interests.” He threw himself into the governor’s campaign of Mr. DeSantis in 2018, and sees Mr. DeSantis as the key to his post-Trump political fortunes. The day after Mr. DeSantis was elected, Mr. Gaetz reached out to the governor-elect’s team and asked if there was any way Ashley Moody, the new state attorney general, could be persuaded to take another job — to clear the way for his appointment, according to two Republican operatives. No way, he was told. He is also open, friends said, to another bank-shot DeSantis appointment. If Kansas Republicans sell Secretary of State Mike Pompeo on a run for then Senate next year and if Mr. Trump then nominates Senator Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida, to replace Mr. Pompeo, maybe Mr. DeSantis would pick him to fill out Mr. Rubio’s term. When asked about that possibility, Mr. Gaetz grinned and said, “Marco would be a historic pick” for the cabinet job.    

Supported by By Glenn Thrush WASHINGTON — Representative Matt Gaetz of Florida came to Washington in 2017 with a reputation for bipartisan deal-cutting in the State Legislature — then spent a year idling behind the slow-moving minivans in the House Republican Conference like a Mustang stuck in traffic. So he decided to go the full Trump. With a near-constant presence on the president’s favorite network and a penchant for own-the-libs outrageousness, Mr. Gaetz has, in short order, become the lawmaker Democrats love to loathe. It is all part of the plan. “In a world where the body politic has the attention span at times of a goldfish, yep, you’ve got to have the ability to reinvent yourself in this game many times,” said Mr. Gaetz, who in his second term representing Florida’s western Panhandle has emerged as one of President Trump’s fiercest and most frequent defenders on Fox News, CNN and MSNBC. “I did one cable news hit during my first 10 months in Congress,” he said during an interview in his Capitol Hill office last week. “Yeah. And now it’s only a couple of years later and The New York Times is sitting in my office asking me about my life. The only thing that’s changed is a little bit of time and a whole hell of a lot of cable.” Many Republicans in Congress stick close to Mr. Trump’s feed-the-base strategy, but few are more naturally inclined to adopt the president’s brass-knuckles brand of politics than Mr. Gaetz, 36, the ambitious son of a former Florida State Senate president, Don Gaetz. “Matt feeds off disruption; it’s just this big adrenaline rush for him,” said Christian Ulvert, a Miami-based Democratic political consultant who met Mr. Gaetz at Florida State University in the early 2000s. “But it puts a ceiling on him, because it wears thin after a while, and it puts so many people off.” Steve Schale, a friend of Mr. Gaetz from Tallahassee who ran Barack Obama’s 2008 campaign in Florida, said he viewed it essentially as a game and “is adjusting as the rules shift.” There are not too many rules these days. Early last year, Mr. Gaetz brought Chuck Johnson, a right-wing activist who has questioned whether six million Jews really died in the Holocaust, to the State of the Union address. (This year Mr. Gaetz denounced anti-Semitism on the House floor.) He tried to expel two fathers who lost children to a gunman at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School from a hearing after they stood up to object to his claim that a wall on the Mexican border would save more lives than gun control. He has feuded with Rick Scott, the newly elected senator and former Republican governor of Florida, over Mr. Scott’s frosty relationship with his successor, Ron DeSantis, and Mr. Scott’s decision to block the elder Mr. Gaetz from garnering a plum university presidency. A month ago, on the eve of testimony by Mr. Trump’s former personal lawyer, Michael D. Cohen, he dashed off a Twitter post that brought him his biggest headlines and accusations of witness intimidation. “Hey @MichaelCohen212,” he wrote. “Do your wife & father-in-law know about your girlfriends? Maybe tonight would be a good time for that chat. I wonder if she’ll remain faithful when you’re in prison. She’s about to learn a lot…” Mr. Cohen’s lawyer, Lanny J. Davis, said Mr. Gaetz had peddled “despicable lies and personal smears.” Mr. Scott called it “disgusting.” The Florida Bar opened an investigation, still continuing, into whether the tweet should affect his ability to practice law in the state. He deleted it and issued a follow-up claiming that “it was NOT my intent to threaten.” The president loved it, and Mr. Gaetz has been less than contrite about the incident with Mr. Trump, according to an administration official who spoke to the president recently. “I wanted to cast him in a bad light,” Mr. Gaetz said of Mr. Cohen. But Mr. Gaetz is quick to say he is no one-dimensional Trump wingman. “I’m on the pro-science side of the Republican Party,” he added. “I mean, like, marijuana can help people live better lives as medicine, the earth is warming and nobody chooses to be gay.” Indeed, Mr. Gaetz — known as Baby Gaetz in Tallahassee to differentiate him from his more powerful father — made his reputation back home as a serious, if combative, legislator who played an instrumental role helping Mr. Scott, then the governor, kill efforts to expand Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act. He also joined with Democratic lawmakers to push marijuana legalization, and he persuaded his father in 2015 to join Democrats to pass a law that removed Florida’s ban on adoptions by same-sex couples. He initially supported Jeb Bush, the former Florida governor, for president in 2016 before jumping over to Mr. Trump. His father was a Bush supporter, and his younger sister worked on the Bush campaign as a video producer. Mr. Gaetz is also a passionate champion of animal rights. On the day of the Cohen tweet, he sent text messages to offer condolences to Mr. Schale after his dog died. When he served in the Florida House, he pushed to end greyhound racing. “Matt has played both the hero and the villain,” said Ryan Wiggins, a Republican political consultant who worked on his first congressional campaign. “I suspect he probably enjoys the reactions he gets when he makes people’s heads explode on the national stage.” With a promontory chin and crooked grin, Mr. Gaetz cultivates an air of genial menace, like a netherworld Jay Leno. His email handle in college was Gaetzofhell, a classmate recalled. His transition to Washington was bumpy. In early 2017, at a lunch for the incoming freshman class at the Capitol, he complained to table mates about how tough it was to be a backbencher and railed, in four-letter fashion, against the House Freedom Caucus — now his allies — for being “a bunch of obstructionists,” according to a person sitting nearby. “I would end my days exhausted,” Mr. Gaetz recalled. “I was unable to rationalize what I had done to make progress. If you can’t impact an outcome in this town you are an extra in the movie, and I do not want to do that.” He started tracking his Fox News appearances more carefully, and turned up the volume on his defenses of Mr. Trump, in part, he said, to gain more sway with the White House on local issues. He said he has used his private access to the president to help block drilling off the Gulf Coast — even if Mr. Trump just wants to critique his television appearances and mock his fashion choices. “What are the things you can do to impact an outcome?” he asked. “Well, the most valuable real estate in the world lies between the president’s ears. And if I can be a good friend and ally and influencer in calling to the president, then I can impact outcomes without having to be a whore for special interests.” He threw himself into the governor’s campaign of Mr. DeSantis in 2018, and sees Mr. DeSantis as the key to his post-Trump political fortunes. The day after Mr. DeSantis was elected, Mr. Gaetz reached out to the governor-elect’s team and asked if there was any way Ashley Moody, the new state attorney general, could be persuaded to take another job — to clear the way for his appointment, according to two Republican operatives. No way, he was told. He is also open, friends said, to another bank-shot DeSantis appointment. If Kansas Republicans sell Secretary of State Mike Pompeo on a run for then Senate next year and if Mr. Trump then nominates Senator Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida, to replace Mr. Pompeo, maybe Mr. DeSantis would pick him to fill out Mr. Rubio’s term. When asked about that possibility, Mr. Gaetz grinned and said, “Marco would be a historic pick” for the cabinet job.    

      By KAREN YOURISH and 
    
JASMINE C. LEE

UPDATED JAN. 28, 2019
 
 Trump administration 15 briefings 10 5 Jan. 2017 July Jan. 2018 July Jan. 2019 15 10 5 Jan. ’17 July Jan. ’18 July Jan. ’19 White House press briefings during the Trump administration have gone from must-see TV to practically canceled after just two seasons. On Monday, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, took questions from the podium for the first time in 41 days. Fox was the only major cable news network to carry the briefing live. She appeared just once in September, November and December. Last Tuesday, President Trump said on Twitter that he told Ms. Sanders “not to bother” with briefings anymore because “the press covers her so rudely & inaccurately.” In an interview on Fox News shortly before Mr. Trump’s tweet, Hogan Gidley, a White House spokesman, said that the briefings have not officially stopped, but that Ms. Sanders did not need to be at the podium every day because Mr. Trump regularly answers questions from reporters, for example, on his way to Marine One. Average number of press briefings per month, by year Clinton Bush Obama Trump 20 briefings 15 10 5 1993 1997 2001 2005 2009 2013 2017 Clinton Bush Obama Trump 20 15 10 5 ’93 ’97 ’01 ’05 ’09 ’13 ’17 But Martha Joynt Kumar, the director of the White House Transition Project, analyzed the frequencies of press briefings and found that the press secretaries for former Presidents Barack Obama and George W. Bush “held regularly scheduled briefings independent of whether their president answered reporters’ questions.” The Trump administration, she said, seemed to use the briefing as an instrument of the White House “to promote the president and his agenda rather than as a medium where reporters establish the subjects under discussion and call upon the White House to answer to the American public on topics of their choosing.” Olivier Knox, the president of the White House Correspondents’ Association, stressed that being able to ask a president questions is not a substitute for a briefing. “While other avenues exist to obtain information, the robust, public back-and-forth we’ve come to expect in the James S. Brady briefing room helps highlight that no one in a healthy republic is above being questioned,” he said. “This retreat from transparency and accountability sets a terrible precedent.” Source: Tom Wood, Ohio State University; whitehouse.gov; The American Presidency Project.



      By KAREN YOURISH and 
    
JASMINE C. LEE

UPDATED JAN. 28, 2019
 
 Trump administration 15 briefings 10 5 Jan. 2017 July Jan. 2018 July Jan. 2019 15 10 5 Jan. ’17 July Jan. ’18 July Jan. ’19 White House press briefings during the Trump administration have gone from must-see TV to practically canceled after just two seasons. On Monday, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, took questions from the podium for the first time in 41 days. Fox was the only major cable news network to carry the briefing live. She appeared just once in September, November and December. Last Tuesday, President Trump said on Twitter that he told Ms. Sanders “not to bother” with briefings anymore because “the press covers her so rudely & inaccurately.” In an interview on Fox News shortly before Mr. Trump’s tweet, Hogan Gidley, a White House spokesman, said that the briefings have not officially stopped, but that Ms. Sanders did not need to be at the podium every day because Mr. Trump regularly answers questions from reporters, for example, on his way to Marine One. Average number of press briefings per month, by year Clinton Bush Obama Trump 20 briefings 15 10 5 1993 1997 2001 2005 2009 2013 2017 Clinton Bush Obama Trump 20 15 10 5 ’93 ’97 ’01 ’05 ’09 ’13 ’17 But Martha Joynt Kumar, the director of the White House Transition Project, analyzed the frequencies of press briefings and found that the press secretaries for former Presidents Barack Obama and George W. Bush “held regularly scheduled briefings independent of whether their president answered reporters’ questions.” The Trump administration, she said, seemed to use the briefing as an instrument of the White House “to promote the president and his agenda rather than as a medium where reporters establish the subjects under discussion and call upon the White House to answer to the American public on topics of their choosing.” Olivier Knox, the president of the White House Correspondents’ Association, stressed that being able to ask a president questions is not a substitute for a briefing. “While other avenues exist to obtain information, the robust, public back-and-forth we’ve come to expect in the James S. Brady briefing room helps highlight that no one in a healthy republic is above being questioned,” he said. “This retreat from transparency and accountability sets a terrible precedent.” Source: Tom Wood, Ohio State University; whitehouse.gov; The American Presidency Project.Supported by By The Associated Press NEW YORK — HBO's "Game of Thrones" lived up to the hype. This past weekend's season premiere stands as the most-watched one-day event in the history of the cable network that began in 1978. The Nielsen company said 17.4 million people watched the Sunday opener to the show's final season, either live on the network at 9 p.m., streamed, through HBO's on-demand service or during two reruns that aired later that night. Nielsen can't account for people who watched more than once. HBO's previous high-water mark was last season's finale of "Game of Thrones," making it likely that this new HBO record will be eclipsed when the series ends on May 19. Nielsen said that 11.8 million people watched the season premiere traditionally, meaning when it first aired on the network at 9 p.m. The numbers are likely to keep going up; HBO estimates that 32.8 million people watched each episode of the show last season. That includes people who watched weeks after it first aired and repeat viewers. Viewership for the show is more impressive when you consider that HBO is a service that people have to specifically pay for. It is available in around 35 million households in the United States, or roughly a third of the number of homes that can see CBS, NBC and ABC. Tiger Woods' stirring comeback in the Masters gave CBS its biggest audience for that marquee golf tournament in six years, Nielsen said. Sunday's final round, which was moved up several hours due to the threat of bad weather in Georgia, averaged 10.8 million viewers. The broadcast's peak came when Woods won shortly after 2 p.m. ET, with 18.3 million viewers. CBS easily won the week in prime-time, averaging 7.1 million viewers. ABC had 4.5 million viewers, NBC had 3.7 million, Fox had 2.3 million, Univision had 1.3 million, ION Television had 1.2 million, Telemundo had 1.1 million and the CW had 700,000. Fox News Channel was the week's most popular cable network, averaging 2.38 million viewers in prime time. MSNBC had 1.56 million, HGTV had 1.182 million, USA had 1.177 million and TNT had 1.11 million. ABC's "World News Tonight" topped the evening newscasts with an average of 7.9 million viewers. NBC's "Nightly News" was second with 7.5 million and the "CBS Evening News" had 5.5 million viewers. For the week of April 8-14, the top 10 shows, their networks and viewerships: NCAA Men's Basketball Championship: Virginia vs. Texas Tech, CBS, 19.72 million; "NCIS," CBS, 11.82 million; "Game of Thrones," HBO, 11.76 million; "60 Minutes," CBS, 8.72 million; "The Code," CBS, 8.14 million; "Blue Bloods," CBS, 8.09 million; "The Voice" (Monday), NBC, 7.62 million; "Survivor," CBS, 7.6 million; "NCAA Basketball Pre-Game Show," CBS, 7.47 million; "The Voice" (Tuesday), NBC, 7.32 million. ___ ABC is owned by The Walt Disney Co. CBS is owned by CBS Corp. CW is a joint venture of Warner Bros. Entertainment and CBS Corp. Fox is owned by 21st Century Fox. NBC and Telemundo are owned by Comcast Corp. ION Television is owned by ION Media Networks. ___ Online: http://www.nielsen.com HBO's "Game of Thrones" lived up to the hype. This past weekend's season premiere stands as the most-watched one-day event in the history of the cable network that began in 1978. The Nielsen company said 17.4 million people watched the Sunday opener to the show's final season, either live on the network at 9 p.m., streamed, through HBO's on-demand service or during two reruns that aired later that night. There's a good chance that number will be eclipsed next month when the series signs off for good. Meanwhile, CBS had its biggest audience for the Masters in six years with Tiger Woods' stirring comeback.

Supported by By The Associated Press NEW YORK — HBO's "Game of Thrones" lived up to the hype. This past weekend's season premiere stands as the most-watched one-day event in the history of the cable network that began in 1978. The Nielsen company said 17.4 million people watched the Sunday opener to the show's final season, either live on the network at 9 p.m., streamed, through HBO's on-demand service or during two reruns that aired later that night. Nielsen can't account for people who watched more than once. HBO's previous high-water mark was last season's finale of "Game of Thrones," making it likely that this new HBO record will be eclipsed when the series ends on May 19. Nielsen said that 11.8 million people watched the season premiere traditionally, meaning when it first aired on the network at 9 p.m. The numbers are likely to keep going up; HBO estimates that 32.8 million people watched each episode of the show last season. That includes people who watched weeks after it first aired and repeat viewers. Viewership for the show is more impressive when you consider that HBO is a service that people have to specifically pay for. It is available in around 35 million households in the United States, or roughly a third of the number of homes that can see CBS, NBC and ABC. Tiger Woods' stirring comeback in the Masters gave CBS its biggest audience for that marquee golf tournament in six years, Nielsen said. Sunday's final round, which was moved up several hours due to the threat of bad weather in Georgia, averaged 10.8 million viewers. The broadcast's peak came when Woods won shortly after 2 p.m. ET, with 18.3 million viewers. CBS easily won the week in prime-time, averaging 7.1 million viewers. ABC had 4.5 million viewers, NBC had 3.7 million, Fox had 2.3 million, Univision had 1.3 million, ION Television had 1.2 million, Telemundo had 1.1 million and the CW had 700,000. Fox News Channel was the week's most popular cable network, averaging 2.38 million viewers in prime time. MSNBC had 1.56 million, HGTV had 1.182 million, USA had 1.177 million and TNT had 1.11 million. ABC's "World News Tonight" topped the evening newscasts with an average of 7.9 million viewers. NBC's "Nightly News" was second with 7.5 million and the "CBS Evening News" had 5.5 million viewers. For the week of April 8-14, the top 10 shows, their networks and viewerships: NCAA Men's Basketball Championship: Virginia vs. Texas Tech, CBS, 19.72 million; "NCIS," CBS, 11.82 million; "Game of Thrones," HBO, 11.76 million; "60 Minutes," CBS, 8.72 million; "The Code," CBS, 8.14 million; "Blue Bloods," CBS, 8.09 million; "The Voice" (Monday), NBC, 7.62 million; "Survivor," CBS, 7.6 million; "NCAA Basketball Pre-Game Show," CBS, 7.47 million; "The Voice" (Tuesday), NBC, 7.32 million. ___ ABC is owned by The Walt Disney Co. CBS is owned by CBS Corp. CW is a joint venture of Warner Bros. Entertainment and CBS Corp. Fox is owned by 21st Century Fox. NBC and Telemundo are owned by Comcast Corp. ION Television is owned by ION Media Networks. ___ Online: http://www.nielsen.com HBO's "Game of Thrones" lived up to the hype. This past weekend's season premiere stands as the most-watched one-day event in the history of the cable network that began in 1978. The Nielsen company said 17.4 million people watched the Sunday opener to the show's final season, either live on the network at 9 p.m., streamed, through HBO's on-demand service or during two reruns that aired later that night. There's a good chance that number will be eclipsed next month when the series signs off for good. Meanwhile, CBS had its biggest audience for the Masters in six years with Tiger Woods' stirring comeback.Supported by Best of Late Night By Giovanni Russonello Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox. President Trump has worked hard to stem and suppress the various investigations surrounding him, leaving him open to accusations of obstruction of justice, according to a New York Times report published this week. He has also publicly attacked the investigation more than 1,100 times since he took office, The Times found. (When the article came out, Trump remained true to form: He savaged it.) Stephen Colbert highlighted one part of the report, which points out that Trump’s behavior has slowly come to feel like the norm for many Americans. Colbert urged his viewers not to become inured to the president’s behavior. “Please don’t do that! Please don’t lose track! I just want to remind you that that mildly nauseous feeling you have is because for the last two years, Donald Trump has been spinning you in a tumble-dryer full of turd.” — STEPHEN COLBERT “The president attacking his Justice Department, trusting Putin over his own intelligence community, calling the F.B.I. a bunch of corrupt, deep-state coup plotters is not normal. It is strange. It’s like how Jack in the Box sells tacos for some reason? It may not be illegal, but it certainly violates something sacred.” — STEPHEN COLBERT “Speaking of the Russia investigation, Donald Trump would prefer that we not speak of it. In fact, he has tried very hard to make all investigations of him vanish faster than a cheeseburger at bedtime.” — STEPHEN COLBERT Trevor Noah followed up on the recent discovery, through a court filing, that the Sackler family was much more directly involved in covering up the addictive qualities of OxyContin than had been previously known. The family is widely known for its philanthropy, but it has also played a major role in the scourge of opioid abuse that suffused America over the past quarter-century. Purdue Pharma, the Sacklers’ company, aggressively marketed the drug to doctors, sometimes with the help of exotic dancers. Noah commented on one pharmaceutical executive and former stripper who allegedly bribed and engaged in sexual acts with doctors she was trying to persuade to prescribe more opioids. “That’s right, this drug company didn’t just bribe doctors to push opioids; they sent strippers to bribe the doctors. And let me just say, when a stripper starts paying you, something fishy is going on. That just doesn’t make sense, it doesn’t make sense. It’s like a crackhead begging to give you $5. ‘Hey, brother, you look like you could use some help. Come on, man, take it!’” — TREVOR NOAH “This one family made $4 billion by allegedly lying about how addictive opioids are. That is straight-up evil. If your product is addictive, you have to be upfront about it. I mean, that’s why we always start our show with a disclaimer: ‘Do not consume more than three episodes of “The Daily Show” if you are addicted to Africans with dimples.’ All right? I could be a billionaire if I didn’t show that warning. I have to do that.” — TREVOR NOAH Seth Meyers pointed to a new argument that’s becoming popular on Fox News: that perhaps Trump shouldn’t declare a national emergency to build the border wall (a move that could well be struck down by federal courts anyway, experts believe) because then a future Democratic president might invoke emergency powers to fight climate change. It’s clear which situation Meyers thinks would be the real emergency. “That’s what you’re worried about? That’s like saying, ‘I would give this homeless guy a dollar, but you know he’s just going to use it to print out his résumé and find a job.’” — SETH MEYERS Meyers played a clip of Trump trying to persuade the Fox News host Chris Wallace that the worsening of California forest fires isn’t due to climate change, but lack of forest maintenance. The president claimed that one governor had told him raking the leaves below trees would help solve the problem. (He wouldn’t name the governor.) “Why won’t you say which state it was? Seems to me, if a governor figured out how to stop forest fires with a rake, they’d want their name out there. Is it because they’re from Neva-happen-da?” — SETH MEYERS Then Meyers rolled tape of a Trump rally at which the president warned that proponents of the Green New Deal wanted to prevent people from owning cows. “Man, Trump is getting really desperate. In two years, he’s gone from ‘they’re going to take your guns away’ to ‘they’re going to take your cows away.’ No one is outlawing cows. You know what we call that? Fake moos.” — SETH MEYERS “After a guy in Dallas finished last place in his fantasy football league — did you hear about this? — he had to go to a dog park covered in peanut butter. His friends laughed, then got concerned when he went back again the next day.” — JIMMY FALLON “I read about a vegan woman who recently got married and banned all meat eaters from her wedding. Then her friends and family were like, ‘Oh, no, we’re not allowed at your vegan wedding? Oh, bummer.’” — JIMMY FALLON “The Bernie Sanders campaign has announced that in the first 12 hours after launching his presidential bid, Sanders raised more than $4 million in donations, which is great for Sanders. Great for Sanders, but terrible for the guy behind him at Coinstar.” — SETH MEYERS In the “Late Show” cold open, Kermit the Frog became a symbol of the Green New Deal. He promised he wouldn’t kill all the cows. (Maybe.) Noah asked Senator Kamala Harris if she was ready for the frivolity that would inevitably greet her on the presidential campaign trail. “Desus & Mero,” the irreverent late-night show hosted by two young, Bronx-born comics, will debut on Showtime on Thursday in its new weekly slot. Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez will be their first guest. Jussie Smollet, the “Empire” star, is now facing a felony charge of falsely reporting a crime, after claiming to have been the victim of a hate crime. Plus, Ideas for What to Watch Tonight: The 50 Best Movies on Netflix Right Now The 25 Best Films of the 21st Century The Best Movies on Amazon Prime Video Right Now

Supported by Best of Late Night By Giovanni Russonello Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox. President Trump has worked hard to stem and suppress the various investigations surrounding him, leaving him open to accusations of obstruction of justice, according to a New York Times report published this week. He has also publicly attacked the investigation more than 1,100 times since he took office, The Times found. (When the article came out, Trump remained true to form: He savaged it.) Stephen Colbert highlighted one part of the report, which points out that Trump’s behavior has slowly come to feel like the norm for many Americans. Colbert urged his viewers not to become inured to the president’s behavior. “Please don’t do that! Please don’t lose track! I just want to remind you that that mildly nauseous feeling you have is because for the last two years, Donald Trump has been spinning you in a tumble-dryer full of turd.” — STEPHEN COLBERT “The president attacking his Justice Department, trusting Putin over his own intelligence community, calling the F.B.I. a bunch of corrupt, deep-state coup plotters is not normal. It is strange. It’s like how Jack in the Box sells tacos for some reason? It may not be illegal, but it certainly violates something sacred.” — STEPHEN COLBERT “Speaking of the Russia investigation, Donald Trump would prefer that we not speak of it. In fact, he has tried very hard to make all investigations of him vanish faster than a cheeseburger at bedtime.” — STEPHEN COLBERT Trevor Noah followed up on the recent discovery, through a court filing, that the Sackler family was much more directly involved in covering up the addictive qualities of OxyContin than had been previously known. The family is widely known for its philanthropy, but it has also played a major role in the scourge of opioid abuse that suffused America over the past quarter-century. Purdue Pharma, the Sacklers’ company, aggressively marketed the drug to doctors, sometimes with the help of exotic dancers. Noah commented on one pharmaceutical executive and former stripper who allegedly bribed and engaged in sexual acts with doctors she was trying to persuade to prescribe more opioids. “That’s right, this drug company didn’t just bribe doctors to push opioids; they sent strippers to bribe the doctors. And let me just say, when a stripper starts paying you, something fishy is going on. That just doesn’t make sense, it doesn’t make sense. It’s like a crackhead begging to give you $5. ‘Hey, brother, you look like you could use some help. Come on, man, take it!’” — TREVOR NOAH “This one family made $4 billion by allegedly lying about how addictive opioids are. That is straight-up evil. If your product is addictive, you have to be upfront about it. I mean, that’s why we always start our show with a disclaimer: ‘Do not consume more than three episodes of “The Daily Show” if you are addicted to Africans with dimples.’ All right? I could be a billionaire if I didn’t show that warning. I have to do that.” — TREVOR NOAH Seth Meyers pointed to a new argument that’s becoming popular on Fox News: that perhaps Trump shouldn’t declare a national emergency to build the border wall (a move that could well be struck down by federal courts anyway, experts believe) because then a future Democratic president might invoke emergency powers to fight climate change. It’s clear which situation Meyers thinks would be the real emergency. “That’s what you’re worried about? That’s like saying, ‘I would give this homeless guy a dollar, but you know he’s just going to use it to print out his résumé and find a job.’” — SETH MEYERS Meyers played a clip of Trump trying to persuade the Fox News host Chris Wallace that the worsening of California forest fires isn’t due to climate change, but lack of forest maintenance. The president claimed that one governor had told him raking the leaves below trees would help solve the problem. (He wouldn’t name the governor.) “Why won’t you say which state it was? Seems to me, if a governor figured out how to stop forest fires with a rake, they’d want their name out there. Is it because they’re from Neva-happen-da?” — SETH MEYERS Then Meyers rolled tape of a Trump rally at which the president warned that proponents of the Green New Deal wanted to prevent people from owning cows. “Man, Trump is getting really desperate. In two years, he’s gone from ‘they’re going to take your guns away’ to ‘they’re going to take your cows away.’ No one is outlawing cows. You know what we call that? Fake moos.” — SETH MEYERS “After a guy in Dallas finished last place in his fantasy football league — did you hear about this? — he had to go to a dog park covered in peanut butter. His friends laughed, then got concerned when he went back again the next day.” — JIMMY FALLON “I read about a vegan woman who recently got married and banned all meat eaters from her wedding. Then her friends and family were like, ‘Oh, no, we’re not allowed at your vegan wedding? Oh, bummer.’” — JIMMY FALLON “The Bernie Sanders campaign has announced that in the first 12 hours after launching his presidential bid, Sanders raised more than $4 million in donations, which is great for Sanders. Great for Sanders, but terrible for the guy behind him at Coinstar.” — SETH MEYERS In the “Late Show” cold open, Kermit the Frog became a symbol of the Green New Deal. He promised he wouldn’t kill all the cows. (Maybe.) Noah asked Senator Kamala Harris if she was ready for the frivolity that would inevitably greet her on the presidential campaign trail. “Desus & Mero,” the irreverent late-night show hosted by two young, Bronx-born comics, will debut on Showtime on Thursday in its new weekly slot. Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez will be their first guest. Jussie Smollet, the “Empire” star, is now facing a felony charge of falsely reporting a crime, after claiming to have been the victim of a hate crime. Plus, Ideas for What to Watch Tonight: The 50 Best Movies on Netflix Right Now The 25 Best Films of the 21st Century The Best Movies on Amazon Prime Video Right Now

      By CHRIS STANFORD and 
    
ANNA SCHAVERIEN

MARCH 29, 2019
 
Did you stay up to date this week? Take our quiz to find out.

Last week, the questions about a new depression drug and the company that went public for only the second time in its long history had the highest share of correct answers, with 84 percent. Only 47 percent knew the name of the former Soviet Republic whose leader is stepping down.

The news quiz is published on Friday mornings. Click here for other weeks’ quizzes.
 The special counsel, Robert Mueller, submitted a long-awaited report to the Justice Department about his investigation into Russian interference during the 2016 presidential election. Attorney General William Barr released a summary of Mr. Mueller’s report that said it found no evidence that the Trump campaign coordinated with Russia. Mr. Barr’s summary also said that the special counsel investigated President Trump’s actions and “did not draw a conclusion — one way or the other — as to whether the examined conduct constituted .”  Collusion Exoneration Obstruction Suppression A coalition of U.S.-backed forces took control of a village called Baghuz, the last remnant of territory held by the Islamic State in which country? Iran Iraq Syria Yemen “There is a very important principle in international life. When you start wars of aggression, you lose territory, do not come and claim it afterwards. It belongs to us.” Which world leader said this? Kim Jong-un of North Korea  President Nicolás Maduro of Venezuela Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel President Vladimir Putin of Russia Britain’s Parliament grabbed control of the Brexit process this week from Prime Minister Theresa May and, in a series of nonbinding votes, considered alternatives to her plan to withdraw the country from the European Union. Of the eight options under consideration, which of these won a majority of votes? Leave the European Union without a deal Remain in a customs union with the European Union Require a public vote to confirm any Brexit deal Nothing The U.S. government accused which company of discrimination by allowing advertisers to restrict the visibility of ads based on characteristics like race, religion and national origin? AT&T Comcast Facebook Google Michael Avenatti, the lawyer best known for representing the pornographic film star Stormy Daniels, was charged with trying to extort millions of dollars from which company? Fox News Nike Starbucks Trump Organization Oprah Winfrey was among the celebrities who helped promote a new service by which company? Apple Disney HBO Netflix Education Secretary Betsy DeVos faced criticism in Congress this week over a budget proposal that calls for eliminating funding for which organization? Khan Academy Sesame Workshop Special Olympics Teach for America A cruise ship that set out with more than 1,300 people became stranded last weekend, resulting in an operation in rough weather to airlift passengers one by one from the ship’s deck. The ship lost power near where? Alaska Bermuda Norway Tahiti Who  holds the record as the longest-living former U.S. president? George Bush Jimmy Carter Gerald Ford Ronald Reagan Saturday was the 80th anniversary of the debut of which comic book superhero, created by the artist Bob Kane and the writer Bill Finger?  Batman Captain Marvel Superman Wonder Woman



      By CHRIS STANFORD and 
    
ANNA SCHAVERIEN

MARCH 29, 2019
 
Did you stay up to date this week? Take our quiz to find out.

Last week, the questions about a new depression drug and the company that went public for only the second time in its long history had the highest share of correct answers, with 84 percent. Only 47 percent knew the name of the former Soviet Republic whose leader is stepping down.

The news quiz is published on Friday mornings. Click here for other weeks’ quizzes.
 The special counsel, Robert Mueller, submitted a long-awaited report to the Justice Department about his investigation into Russian interference during the 2016 presidential election. Attorney General William Barr released a summary of Mr. Mueller’s report that said it found no evidence that the Trump campaign coordinated with Russia. Mr. Barr’s summary also said that the special counsel investigated President Trump’s actions and “did not draw a conclusion — one way or the other — as to whether the examined conduct constituted .”  Collusion Exoneration Obstruction Suppression A coalition of U.S.-backed forces took control of a village called Baghuz, the last remnant of territory held by the Islamic State in which country? Iran Iraq Syria Yemen “There is a very important principle in international life. When you start wars of aggression, you lose territory, do not come and claim it afterwards. It belongs to us.” Which world leader said this? Kim Jong-un of North Korea  President Nicolás Maduro of Venezuela Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel President Vladimir Putin of Russia Britain’s Parliament grabbed control of the Brexit process this week from Prime Minister Theresa May and, in a series of nonbinding votes, considered alternatives to her plan to withdraw the country from the European Union. Of the eight options under consideration, which of these won a majority of votes? Leave the European Union without a deal Remain in a customs union with the European Union Require a public vote to confirm any Brexit deal Nothing The U.S. government accused which company of discrimination by allowing advertisers to restrict the visibility of ads based on characteristics like race, religion and national origin? AT&T Comcast Facebook Google Michael Avenatti, the lawyer best known for representing the pornographic film star Stormy Daniels, was charged with trying to extort millions of dollars from which company? Fox News Nike Starbucks Trump Organization Oprah Winfrey was among the celebrities who helped promote a new service by which company? Apple Disney HBO Netflix Education Secretary Betsy DeVos faced criticism in Congress this week over a budget proposal that calls for eliminating funding for which organization? Khan Academy Sesame Workshop Special Olympics Teach for America A cruise ship that set out with more than 1,300 people became stranded last weekend, resulting in an operation in rough weather to airlift passengers one by one from the ship’s deck. The ship lost power near where? Alaska Bermuda Norway Tahiti Who  holds the record as the longest-living former U.S. president? George Bush Jimmy Carter Gerald Ford Ronald Reagan Saturday was the 80th anniversary of the debut of which comic book superhero, created by the artist Bob Kane and the writer Bill Finger?  Batman Captain Marvel Superman Wonder WomanSupported by By Michael D. Shear and Annie Karni WASHINGTON — By the time President Trump woke up on Thursday morning, he was ready for the Mueller report. The day before, his lawyers had given him a matter-of-fact recounting of the special counsel’s sprawling, 448-page document during a briefing in the White House residence. It left Mr. Trump concerned about its damaging details but convinced that the report would help further the White House’s narrative that he had been cleared of all wrongdoing. Before 9 a.m., the president began that public relations effort in earnest, using Twitter to confidently urge people to watch a morning news conference by Attorney General William P. Barr. The moment Mr. Barr ended the news conference — having repeatedly insisted there was “no collusion” — the president tweeted again. “Game Over,” the “Game of Thrones”-styled tweet said, showing a picture of Mr. Trump from behind, staring into a mist. “No Collusion. No Obstruction. For the haters and the radical left Democrats.” For Mr. Trump, the release of the report by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, had hung over his head for almost two years and with it the terrifying possibility that its contents could destroy his presidency. But on the day that the moment finally arrived, the president refused to budge from his initial assessment that the report was a total exoneration of his actions. The findings from the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, are now available to the public. The redacted report details his two-year investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election. In an appearance with Wounded Warriors that started at virtually the same moment the Mueller report was released to the public on Justice Department servers, the president could hardly contain himself. He had hardly welcomed the military veterans — saying they were having a good day — before he started to talk about himself. “I’m having a good day, too,” Mr. Trump said, prompting laughter from the audience. “It was called ‘No collusion. No obstruction.’ There never was, by the way, and there never will be.” The president repeated his demand that the Justice Department should shift its focus to investigate his adversaries, adding that “we do have to get to the bottom of these things, I will say” and concluding that “this hoax — it should never happen to another president again.” Mr. Trump had spent a half-hour before the event taking pictures with the veterans. But after the event, he was back in the West Wing, huddled with his lawyers and going over the report with his aides. Before leaving for his Easter vacation, Mr. Trump asked Kellyanne Conway, his counselor, to repeat his declarations of innocence to reporters. “Really the best day since he got elected,” Ms. Conway said. “I know you want to cherry-pick one line here or one line there.” “It’s over, folks,” she added. Just before 1 p.m., Mr. Trump was back on Twitter, this time posting a video of news clips about the report’s conclusions. “As I have been saying all along, NO COLLUSION — NO OBSTRUCTION!,” Mr. Trump tweeted triumphantly. But as the day wore on, and more details from the report emerged about the president’s behavior — and the ways in which he urged those around him to mislead the public — the president and his top aides went uncharacteristically quiet. Despite having told a radio interviewer on Wednesday that he might hold a news conference after the report’s release, he purposefully avoiding one of his favorite pastimes: talking to the press. At 4 p.m., when the president walked onto the South Lawn to board Marine One for the flight to Joint Base Andrews, he did not talk to reporters. He did not crow again about the report’s conclusions, and he did not take questions. Instead, the president boarded the helicopter, headed for a four-day Easter vacation at his Mar-a-Lago estate in Palm Beach, Fla. With him on Air Force One: Pat Cipollone, the White House counsel; Mick Mulvaney, the acting chief of staff; and Dan Scavino Jr., assistant to the president. On the way to Florida, Mr. Trump stayed in the front of the plane, declining to mingle with the handful of reporters in the press cabin near the kitchen. Instead, about halfway to Palm Beach, the president sent out a tweet quoting Jesse B. Watters, a Fox News analyst, saying that the president was framed — a clear indication that Mr. Trump was tuned into the cable news coverage of the release of the report. “I had the right to end the whole Witch Hunt if I wanted,” Mr. Trump wrote. “I could have fired everyone, including Mueller, if I wanted. I chose not to. I had the RIGHT to use Executive Privilege. I didn’t!” Just before landing, Mr. Trump offered some cryptic advice for his followers to watch three of the president’s favorite television news programs: “It was a really great day for America!” he tweeted. “A special evening tonight on @TuckerCarlson, @seanhannity & @IngrahamAngle Will be very interesting!” But as he climbed into his motorcade without talking with reporters, a president who rarely misses a chance to spar with the news media made it clear that questions about the Mueller report would have to wait for another day. Maggie Haberman contributed reporting.   

Supported by By Michael D. Shear and Annie Karni WASHINGTON — By the time President Trump woke up on Thursday morning, he was ready for the Mueller report. The day before, his lawyers had given him a matter-of-fact recounting of the special counsel’s sprawling, 448-page document during a briefing in the White House residence. It left Mr. Trump concerned about its damaging details but convinced that the report would help further the White House’s narrative that he had been cleared of all wrongdoing. Before 9 a.m., the president began that public relations effort in earnest, using Twitter to confidently urge people to watch a morning news conference by Attorney General William P. Barr. The moment Mr. Barr ended the news conference — having repeatedly insisted there was “no collusion” — the president tweeted again. “Game Over,” the “Game of Thrones”-styled tweet said, showing a picture of Mr. Trump from behind, staring into a mist. “No Collusion. No Obstruction. For the haters and the radical left Democrats.” For Mr. Trump, the release of the report by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, had hung over his head for almost two years and with it the terrifying possibility that its contents could destroy his presidency. But on the day that the moment finally arrived, the president refused to budge from his initial assessment that the report was a total exoneration of his actions. The findings from the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, are now available to the public. The redacted report details his two-year investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election. In an appearance with Wounded Warriors that started at virtually the same moment the Mueller report was released to the public on Justice Department servers, the president could hardly contain himself. He had hardly welcomed the military veterans — saying they were having a good day — before he started to talk about himself. “I’m having a good day, too,” Mr. Trump said, prompting laughter from the audience. “It was called ‘No collusion. No obstruction.’ There never was, by the way, and there never will be.” The president repeated his demand that the Justice Department should shift its focus to investigate his adversaries, adding that “we do have to get to the bottom of these things, I will say” and concluding that “this hoax — it should never happen to another president again.” Mr. Trump had spent a half-hour before the event taking pictures with the veterans. But after the event, he was back in the West Wing, huddled with his lawyers and going over the report with his aides. Before leaving for his Easter vacation, Mr. Trump asked Kellyanne Conway, his counselor, to repeat his declarations of innocence to reporters. “Really the best day since he got elected,” Ms. Conway said. “I know you want to cherry-pick one line here or one line there.” “It’s over, folks,” she added. Just before 1 p.m., Mr. Trump was back on Twitter, this time posting a video of news clips about the report’s conclusions. “As I have been saying all along, NO COLLUSION — NO OBSTRUCTION!,” Mr. Trump tweeted triumphantly. But as the day wore on, and more details from the report emerged about the president’s behavior — and the ways in which he urged those around him to mislead the public — the president and his top aides went uncharacteristically quiet. Despite having told a radio interviewer on Wednesday that he might hold a news conference after the report’s release, he purposefully avoiding one of his favorite pastimes: talking to the press. At 4 p.m., when the president walked onto the South Lawn to board Marine One for the flight to Joint Base Andrews, he did not talk to reporters. He did not crow again about the report’s conclusions, and he did not take questions. Instead, the president boarded the helicopter, headed for a four-day Easter vacation at his Mar-a-Lago estate in Palm Beach, Fla. With him on Air Force One: Pat Cipollone, the White House counsel; Mick Mulvaney, the acting chief of staff; and Dan Scavino Jr., assistant to the president. On the way to Florida, Mr. Trump stayed in the front of the plane, declining to mingle with the handful of reporters in the press cabin near the kitchen. Instead, about halfway to Palm Beach, the president sent out a tweet quoting Jesse B. Watters, a Fox News analyst, saying that the president was framed — a clear indication that Mr. Trump was tuned into the cable news coverage of the release of the report. “I had the right to end the whole Witch Hunt if I wanted,” Mr. Trump wrote. “I could have fired everyone, including Mueller, if I wanted. I chose not to. I had the RIGHT to use Executive Privilege. I didn’t!” Just before landing, Mr. Trump offered some cryptic advice for his followers to watch three of the president’s favorite television news programs: “It was a really great day for America!” he tweeted. “A special evening tonight on @TuckerCarlson, @seanhannity & @IngrahamAngle Will be very interesting!” But as he climbed into his motorcade without talking with reporters, a president who rarely misses a chance to spar with the news media made it clear that questions about the Mueller report would have to wait for another day. Maggie Haberman contributed reporting.   Supported by News Analysis By Peter Baker WASHINGTON — In the last couple of weeks, President Trump repeatedly called his enemies “treasonous.” He threatened to punish Democrats by dumping migrants in their districts. He promoted a video tying a Muslim congresswoman to images of the Sept. 11 terrorist attack on the World Trade Center. The message seems clear and so does the audience: more red meat for red-state Americans who have been the foundation of his political enterprise since his against-the-odds campaign for the White House. And it is a reminder that this president governs as none of his modern predecessors did. The old-fashioned idea that a president, once reaching office, should at least pretend to be the leader of all the people these days seems so, well, old-fashioned. Mr. Trump does not bother with the pretense. He is speaking to his people, not the people. He has become, or so it often seems, the president of the United Base of America. Mr. Trump travels nearly five times as often to states that were in his column in 2016 as to those that supported Hillary Clinton. He has given nearly four times as many interviews to Fox News as to all the other major networks combined. His social media advertising is aimed disproportionately at older Americans who were the superstructure of his victory in the Electoral College in 2016. His messaging is permeated with divisive language that galvanizes core supporters more than it persuades anyone on the fence, much less on the other side. “Just from a pure governance standpoint, the ability to be president of a majority of the country, they don’t even seem to consider that’s part of being president,” said Matthew Dowd, who was President George W. Bush’s re-election strategist and has been a vocal critic of Mr. Trump. Mr. Trump is the only president in the history of Gallup polling never to earn the support of a majority of Americans even for a single day of his term. His approval rating in Gallup has stayed within a 10-point band of 35 percent to 45 percent throughout his presidency. To some extent, that may reflect a time of polarization. Mr. Bush spent his entire second term under 50 percent approval, and President Barack Obama spent nearly three years of his second term with less than a majority. But Mr. Trump seems to relish divide-and-conquer politics much more than either of them did and has made little effort to expand his coalition beyond the voters who propelled him to the White House in the first place. While other presidents sought to broaden their public support, Mr. Trump appears to be heading into his re-election campaign sticking with his own tribe. “Donald Trump has never adopted that presidential rhetoric,” said Nicole Hemmer, a University of Virginia professor who studies the conservative movement. “He’s always continued with the campaign rhetoric.” Mr. Trump’s advisers, however, insist that is not the case, that while he is an unconventional politician with a howitzer Twitter account and an itchy trigger finger, he is still trying to reach out to new voters. “The idea that we’re strictly preaching to the converted is not true,” said Tim Murtaugh, the communications director for Mr. Trump’s re-election campaign. “We look at the 2016 map and we intend to win where the president won the last time and we also think that we can expand the map and attract new voters and new supporters in states across the country,” Mr. Murtaugh said. “There are two main differences this time between 2016 and 2020 — the first being that he’s now the incumbent president and the second is that he has a clear record of accomplishment that he can run on.” Mr. Murtaugh cited the strong economy that has produced millions of jobs and increased wages as well as legislation like the overhaul of the criminal justice system. He also said voters across ideological lines agree with Mr. Trump’s argument on immigration that the law should be enforced. “Democrats make a mistake where they can just shout the word immigration and think they win the argument with Hispanic voters,” he said. “We have found that legal immigrants, those who have followed the law to be Americans or those who have legal immigrants in recent generations close to themselves, believe that others should also follow the law.” Mr. Trump’s path to victory in 2016 was an inside straight, winning the Electoral College even though he lost the national popular vote to Mrs. Clinton by nearly three million votes. Notwithstanding Mr. Trump’s advisers, Democrats and independent analysts said the president seemed to be gambling that he could win the same way again. “They are doubling down on lightning striking the same place twice and the idea that this 46 percent president can once again through divide and conquer tactics win again,” said Cornell Belcher, a pollster who worked for Mr. Obama. “They’ve got to play the hand they are given and he doesn’t have a lot of other hands. He’s got to double down on this tribalism that got him there in the first place and hope they can do enough that Democrats cannot cobble together the majority that’s sitting out there and rejecting Trump.” Indeed, Mr. Trump has spent much of his presidency focused on the parts of the country that already support him. Not counting four states where he regularly stays at his own properties or Maryland, where he travels to Joint Base Andrews or Camp David, he has spent nearly five times as many days in states that voted for him as those that did not, 115 versus 25, according to Bill Frischling of Factba.se, a service that compiles and analyzes data on Mr. Trump’s presidency. At the same time, since becoming president, Mr. Trump has given 49 interviews to Fox News, reaching his most fervent supporters, compared with just 13 for the other major networks combined, according to numbers kept by Mark Knoller, the longtime CBS News correspondent. And Mr. Trump’s campaign is spending 44 percent of its Facebook advertising budget targeting users 65 and older, far more proportionately than the Democrats, Axios reported. Other Democrats said it was not clear whether Mr. Trump’s recent spate of divisive language reflected calculation. Anna Greenberg, a Democratic pollster, said Mr. Trump might be lashing out more simply because he had fewer advisers around him to restrain him. At the same time, she said Mr. Trump is building a campaign that is far more extensive than the ad hoc organization he had last time. “I don’t know if it’s any strategy so much as him being liberated,” she said. “He doesn’t seem to me, even though he’s wily and clever, like someone who’s thinking deeply about strategy for 2020. But it may not matter. My view is they’re building a whole apparatus outside the White House that’s gearing up for 2020.” Other presidents have had to find a balance between being the leader of a nation and a partisan candidate for election, swinging from messages of unity to tough attacks on opponents. But the old theory about reaching out to swing voters to build a governing coalition, much less a re-election coalition, has been fading for years. Bill Clinton positioned himself as a centrist in 1992 and 1996 to reach beyond the Democratic base and Mr. Bush in 2000 called himself a “compassionate conservative” to appeal to voters in the middle. After he prevailed following the divisive Florida recount, Mr. Bush sought to reach out by working with Democrats on education and other issues. After the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, he visited a mosque and made a point of stressing that the war that followed was not a war against Muslims. He likewise sought to expand his appeal to Hispanics by supporting an overhaul of immigration laws. But after 2000, Mr. Dowd conducted a study for Mr. Bush concluding that most independents were really reliable Democratic or Republican voters and that the fraction of the electorate genuinely open to persuasion had shrunk since 1980 from 22 percent to 7 percent. That led to a strategy in 2004 that emphasized maximizing Mr. Bush’s base, notably by supporting a constitutional amendment banning same-sex marriage. But Mr. Dowd, who personally disagreed with that specific initiative, said they still tried to win over new voters. “We never thought we were choosing between one and the other,” he said. The Trump team, by contrast, seemed to have “set a high-water mark of 46 percent,” banking on the idea that the president could lose the popular vote again but still hang onto the Electoral College. “They could do both but they seem to have decided they don’t care to do both,” Mr. Dowd said. “The only thing they want to do is motivate his base.” Mr. Murtaugh said the president was actually expanding the president’s base. If he is not necessarily winning over opponents, he is bringing new voters into the process. A survey found that one-quarter of the people who turned out for a recent Trump rally in El Paso had voted only in one of the past four elections and another quarter had not voted in any of them, according to Mr. Murtaugh. “These are new voters,” he said. “You might call them low-propensity voters; they don’t vote year in and year out. President Trump is not a typical politician by any means so a lot of these states that we talk about, they are not necessarily Republican states, they are Trump states.” Follow Peter Baker on Twitter: @peterbakernyt.

Supported by News Analysis By Peter Baker WASHINGTON — In the last couple of weeks, President Trump repeatedly called his enemies “treasonous.” He threatened to punish Democrats by dumping migrants in their districts. He promoted a video tying a Muslim congresswoman to images of the Sept. 11 terrorist attack on the World Trade Center. The message seems clear and so does the audience: more red meat for red-state Americans who have been the foundation of his political enterprise since his against-the-odds campaign for the White House. And it is a reminder that this president governs as none of his modern predecessors did. The old-fashioned idea that a president, once reaching office, should at least pretend to be the leader of all the people these days seems so, well, old-fashioned. Mr. Trump does not bother with the pretense. He is speaking to his people, not the people. He has become, or so it often seems, the president of the United Base of America. Mr. Trump travels nearly five times as often to states that were in his column in 2016 as to those that supported Hillary Clinton. He has given nearly four times as many interviews to Fox News as to all the other major networks combined. His social media advertising is aimed disproportionately at older Americans who were the superstructure of his victory in the Electoral College in 2016. His messaging is permeated with divisive language that galvanizes core supporters more than it persuades anyone on the fence, much less on the other side. “Just from a pure governance standpoint, the ability to be president of a majority of the country, they don’t even seem to consider that’s part of being president,” said Matthew Dowd, who was President George W. Bush’s re-election strategist and has been a vocal critic of Mr. Trump. Mr. Trump is the only president in the history of Gallup polling never to earn the support of a majority of Americans even for a single day of his term. His approval rating in Gallup has stayed within a 10-point band of 35 percent to 45 percent throughout his presidency. To some extent, that may reflect a time of polarization. Mr. Bush spent his entire second term under 50 percent approval, and President Barack Obama spent nearly three years of his second term with less than a majority. But Mr. Trump seems to relish divide-and-conquer politics much more than either of them did and has made little effort to expand his coalition beyond the voters who propelled him to the White House in the first place. While other presidents sought to broaden their public support, Mr. Trump appears to be heading into his re-election campaign sticking with his own tribe. “Donald Trump has never adopted that presidential rhetoric,” said Nicole Hemmer, a University of Virginia professor who studies the conservative movement. “He’s always continued with the campaign rhetoric.” Mr. Trump’s advisers, however, insist that is not the case, that while he is an unconventional politician with a howitzer Twitter account and an itchy trigger finger, he is still trying to reach out to new voters. “The idea that we’re strictly preaching to the converted is not true,” said Tim Murtaugh, the communications director for Mr. Trump’s re-election campaign. “We look at the 2016 map and we intend to win where the president won the last time and we also think that we can expand the map and attract new voters and new supporters in states across the country,” Mr. Murtaugh said. “There are two main differences this time between 2016 and 2020 — the first being that he’s now the incumbent president and the second is that he has a clear record of accomplishment that he can run on.” Mr. Murtaugh cited the strong economy that has produced millions of jobs and increased wages as well as legislation like the overhaul of the criminal justice system. He also said voters across ideological lines agree with Mr. Trump’s argument on immigration that the law should be enforced. “Democrats make a mistake where they can just shout the word immigration and think they win the argument with Hispanic voters,” he said. “We have found that legal immigrants, those who have followed the law to be Americans or those who have legal immigrants in recent generations close to themselves, believe that others should also follow the law.” Mr. Trump’s path to victory in 2016 was an inside straight, winning the Electoral College even though he lost the national popular vote to Mrs. Clinton by nearly three million votes. Notwithstanding Mr. Trump’s advisers, Democrats and independent analysts said the president seemed to be gambling that he could win the same way again. “They are doubling down on lightning striking the same place twice and the idea that this 46 percent president can once again through divide and conquer tactics win again,” said Cornell Belcher, a pollster who worked for Mr. Obama. “They’ve got to play the hand they are given and he doesn’t have a lot of other hands. He’s got to double down on this tribalism that got him there in the first place and hope they can do enough that Democrats cannot cobble together the majority that’s sitting out there and rejecting Trump.” Indeed, Mr. Trump has spent much of his presidency focused on the parts of the country that already support him. Not counting four states where he regularly stays at his own properties or Maryland, where he travels to Joint Base Andrews or Camp David, he has spent nearly five times as many days in states that voted for him as those that did not, 115 versus 25, according to Bill Frischling of Factba.se, a service that compiles and analyzes data on Mr. Trump’s presidency. At the same time, since becoming president, Mr. Trump has given 49 interviews to Fox News, reaching his most fervent supporters, compared with just 13 for the other major networks combined, according to numbers kept by Mark Knoller, the longtime CBS News correspondent. And Mr. Trump’s campaign is spending 44 percent of its Facebook advertising budget targeting users 65 and older, far more proportionately than the Democrats, Axios reported. Other Democrats said it was not clear whether Mr. Trump’s recent spate of divisive language reflected calculation. Anna Greenberg, a Democratic pollster, said Mr. Trump might be lashing out more simply because he had fewer advisers around him to restrain him. At the same time, she said Mr. Trump is building a campaign that is far more extensive than the ad hoc organization he had last time. “I don’t know if it’s any strategy so much as him being liberated,” she said. “He doesn’t seem to me, even though he’s wily and clever, like someone who’s thinking deeply about strategy for 2020. But it may not matter. My view is they’re building a whole apparatus outside the White House that’s gearing up for 2020.” Other presidents have had to find a balance between being the leader of a nation and a partisan candidate for election, swinging from messages of unity to tough attacks on opponents. But the old theory about reaching out to swing voters to build a governing coalition, much less a re-election coalition, has been fading for years. Bill Clinton positioned himself as a centrist in 1992 and 1996 to reach beyond the Democratic base and Mr. Bush in 2000 called himself a “compassionate conservative” to appeal to voters in the middle. After he prevailed following the divisive Florida recount, Mr. Bush sought to reach out by working with Democrats on education and other issues. After the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, he visited a mosque and made a point of stressing that the war that followed was not a war against Muslims. He likewise sought to expand his appeal to Hispanics by supporting an overhaul of immigration laws. But after 2000, Mr. Dowd conducted a study for Mr. Bush concluding that most independents were really reliable Democratic or Republican voters and that the fraction of the electorate genuinely open to persuasion had shrunk since 1980 from 22 percent to 7 percent. That led to a strategy in 2004 that emphasized maximizing Mr. Bush’s base, notably by supporting a constitutional amendment banning same-sex marriage. But Mr. Dowd, who personally disagreed with that specific initiative, said they still tried to win over new voters. “We never thought we were choosing between one and the other,” he said. The Trump team, by contrast, seemed to have “set a high-water mark of 46 percent,” banking on the idea that the president could lose the popular vote again but still hang onto the Electoral College. “They could do both but they seem to have decided they don’t care to do both,” Mr. Dowd said. “The only thing they want to do is motivate his base.” Mr. Murtaugh said the president was actually expanding the president’s base. If he is not necessarily winning over opponents, he is bringing new voters into the process. A survey found that one-quarter of the people who turned out for a recent Trump rally in El Paso had voted only in one of the past four elections and another quarter had not voted in any of them, according to Mr. Murtaugh. “These are new voters,” he said. “You might call them low-propensity voters; they don’t vote year in and year out. President Trump is not a typical politician by any means so a lot of these states that we talk about, they are not necessarily Republican states, they are Trump states.” Follow Peter Baker on Twitter: @peterbakernyt.Supported by By Thomas Fuller SAN FRANCISCO — The University of California Police Department on Friday arrested a suspect in the assault of a conservative activist on the Berkeley campus, reviving a debate over free speech at colleges. Neither the suspect, Zachary Greenberg, nor the man he is accused of punching, Hayden Williams, a field representative of the Leadership Institute, an organization that provides training to conservative campus groups, was a student at the university. The attack on Feb. 19 took place at Sproul Plaza, the birthplace and symbol of the Free Speech movement, the protests by students in the 1960s demanding greater political expression. Mr. Williams was helping a campus group that was recruiting members. Conservative groups said the assault on Mr. Williams served as a symbol of what they say is continued intolerance toward conservative views on college campuses. Mr. Williams appeared on Fox News programs with a black eye, and videos of his assault were widely shared on social media. The episode was only a faint echo of the brawl at the Berkeley campus in February 2017 when a group clad in black clothing and carrying sticks smashed windows, threw rocks at the police and stormed a building in response to a planned speech by the right-wing writer Milo Yiannopoulos, causing around $100,000 in damage. In an interview Mr. Williams said he and the students he was seeking to train had made signs supporting President Trump and criticizing Jussie Smollett, the actor who has been charged in connection with his own assault in Chicago. One of the signs said, “This is MAGA country,” Mr. Williams said. Two men are seen in multiple videos of the episode approaching Mr. Williams, who begins filming them. One man points to the signs and accuses Mr. Williams of “encouraging violence.” A man is then seen pushing Mr. Williams, showering him with expletives and delivering a powerful right hook to his face. A university spokeswoman said the campus police would present the case to the Alameda County district attorney for the filing of criminal charges. In a statement, Carol Christ, the chancellor of the university, called the attack “reprehensible.” “That sort of behavior is intolerable and has no place here,” the chancellor said. “Our commitment to freedom of expression and belief is unwavering.” Bryan Bernys, the head of the Campus Leadership Program at the Leadership Institute, accused the Berkeley campus of encouraging “a culture that fosters this type of horrible behavior toward anyone or anything that you disagree with.” The Leadership Institute runs a website called Campus Reform, which says it “exposes the liberal bias and abuse against conservatives on America’s colleges and universities.” “What does it say about Berkeley that this gentleman felt that he could go up and basically sucker-punch or cold-cock Hayden in the middle of a public square for no other reason than he disagreed with some of his speech and the signs that were out there,” Mr. Bernys said. Dan Mogulof, a spokesman for the university, described Mr. Greenberg as a “lone actor.” “Many people seem to think that somehow this university of all places should have the ability to prevent all crime even when it’s the responsibility of a lone, crazy individual,” Mr. Mogulof said. As a measure of its commitment to ideological pluralism, Mr. Mogulof said the university spent $4 million last year for security and logistics to host conservative speakers, among them Rick Santorum, the former Republican senator and presidential candidate; Dennis Prager, the conservative talk show host; and Heather Mac Donald, the conservative writer and political commentator.

Supported by By Thomas Fuller SAN FRANCISCO — The University of California Police Department on Friday arrested a suspect in the assault of a conservative activist on the Berkeley campus, reviving a debate over free speech at colleges. Neither the suspect, Zachary Greenberg, nor the man he is accused of punching, Hayden Williams, a field representative of the Leadership Institute, an organization that provides training to conservative campus groups, was a student at the university. The attack on Feb. 19 took place at Sproul Plaza, the birthplace and symbol of the Free Speech movement, the protests by students in the 1960s demanding greater political expression. Mr. Williams was helping a campus group that was recruiting members. Conservative groups said the assault on Mr. Williams served as a symbol of what they say is continued intolerance toward conservative views on college campuses. Mr. Williams appeared on Fox News programs with a black eye, and videos of his assault were widely shared on social media. The episode was only a faint echo of the brawl at the Berkeley campus in February 2017 when a group clad in black clothing and carrying sticks smashed windows, threw rocks at the police and stormed a building in response to a planned speech by the right-wing writer Milo Yiannopoulos, causing around $100,000 in damage. In an interview Mr. Williams said he and the students he was seeking to train had made signs supporting President Trump and criticizing Jussie Smollett, the actor who has been charged in connection with his own assault in Chicago. One of the signs said, “This is MAGA country,” Mr. Williams said. Two men are seen in multiple videos of the episode approaching Mr. Williams, who begins filming them. One man points to the signs and accuses Mr. Williams of “encouraging violence.” A man is then seen pushing Mr. Williams, showering him with expletives and delivering a powerful right hook to his face. A university spokeswoman said the campus police would present the case to the Alameda County district attorney for the filing of criminal charges. In a statement, Carol Christ, the chancellor of the university, called the attack “reprehensible.” “That sort of behavior is intolerable and has no place here,” the chancellor said. “Our commitment to freedom of expression and belief is unwavering.” Bryan Bernys, the head of the Campus Leadership Program at the Leadership Institute, accused the Berkeley campus of encouraging “a culture that fosters this type of horrible behavior toward anyone or anything that you disagree with.” The Leadership Institute runs a website called Campus Reform, which says it “exposes the liberal bias and abuse against conservatives on America’s colleges and universities.” “What does it say about Berkeley that this gentleman felt that he could go up and basically sucker-punch or cold-cock Hayden in the middle of a public square for no other reason than he disagreed with some of his speech and the signs that were out there,” Mr. Bernys said. Dan Mogulof, a spokesman for the university, described Mr. Greenberg as a “lone actor.” “Many people seem to think that somehow this university of all places should have the ability to prevent all crime even when it’s the responsibility of a lone, crazy individual,” Mr. Mogulof said. As a measure of its commitment to ideological pluralism, Mr. Mogulof said the university spent $4 million last year for security and logistics to host conservative speakers, among them Rick Santorum, the former Republican senator and presidential candidate; Dennis Prager, the conservative talk show host; and Heather Mac Donald, the conservative writer and political commentator.Supported by Best of Late Night By Giovanni Russonello Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox. Most of the news around Senator Bernie Sanders’s presidential campaign has been positive of late: He pulled ahead of Joe Biden in a national poll, and first-quarter statistics showed that he has raised more money this year than any other Democratic candidate. Meanwhile, he also released 10 years’ worth of tax returns. The late-night hosts got in some good-natured jabs about Sanders’s fund-raising success, his income and his potential Democratic opponent Joe Biden. “The race for 2020 is underway, and a new poll found that Bernie Sanders is now leading Joe Biden by 29 percent to 24. You can tell Joe Biden is stressed: He spent the day giving himself a massage.” — JIMMY FALLON “Of the Democrats, Bernie Sanders has raised the most money so far — $18.2 million. Zero of which has been spent on personal grooming.” — JIMMY KIMMEL “Bernie Sanders yesterday released his taxes. He released 10 years’ worth of income tax returns, which is great, but now how about the other 200 years?” — JIMMY KIMMEL “Yesterday Bernie Sanders released 10 years of his tax returns. Finally, now we can get the answers to all of our Bernie-related financial controversies. Like whether he writes off mothballs as a business expense or a snack.” — STEPHEN COLBERT Jimmy Kimmel made fun of President Trump for tweeting angrily about the fact that Sanders was featured in a Fox News town hall special. “He gets very jealous when his Fox makes other friends.” — JIMMY KIMMEL, referring to the show “Fox and Friends” In the two days since a fire incinerated the roof and spire of the historic Notre-Dame cathedral in Paris, companies have already pledged $700 million toward funding the repairs. Stephen Colbert said we should all be grateful for the generosity — on one condition. “That is absolutely lovely — it’s great these businessmen and corporations are stepping up. I just pray that they don’t sell the naming rights. Because it just would not be the same to visit the Tostitos Notre-Dame Cathedral at Monster Energy Drink Île de la Cité.” — STEPHEN COLBERT “Reality star and new mom Kristin Cavallari for some reason told E! that her husband, former Bears quarterback Jay Cutler, ‘unclogged her milk ducts by “sucking harder than he’s ever sucked.”’ Clearly she has never seen her husband play football.” — STEPHEN COLBERT “President Trump reportedly refers to his daughter Ivanka as ‘baby’ in official meetings. ‘That’s really inappropriate, Daddy,’ said Stephen Miller.” — SETH MEYERS Stephen Colbert hopes that this Brexit special, which he filmed in England over the weekend, leaves him with “three years of agonizing reappraisal.” Sometimes Conan O’Brien puts together skits that are so quirky, they’re not really funny until the very end — at which point they do something that might make you laugh until you’re sore. O’Brien will air his prime-time special “Conan in Australia” on Wednesday night, continuing a tradition of international shows that has already taken him to Italy, Israel, Mexico and many other places. In a miraculous turn of timing, many of the sculptures at Notre-Dame cathedral had been removed just days before, and survived the fire. Plus, Ideas for What to Watch Tonight: The 50 Best Movies on Netflix Right Now The 25 Best Films of the 21st Century The Best Movies on Amazon Prime Video Right Now

Supported by Best of Late Night By Giovanni Russonello Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox. Most of the news around Senator Bernie Sanders’s presidential campaign has been positive of late: He pulled ahead of Joe Biden in a national poll, and first-quarter statistics showed that he has raised more money this year than any other Democratic candidate. Meanwhile, he also released 10 years’ worth of tax returns. The late-night hosts got in some good-natured jabs about Sanders’s fund-raising success, his income and his potential Democratic opponent Joe Biden. “The race for 2020 is underway, and a new poll found that Bernie Sanders is now leading Joe Biden by 29 percent to 24. You can tell Joe Biden is stressed: He spent the day giving himself a massage.” — JIMMY FALLON “Of the Democrats, Bernie Sanders has raised the most money so far — $18.2 million. Zero of which has been spent on personal grooming.” — JIMMY KIMMEL “Bernie Sanders yesterday released his taxes. He released 10 years’ worth of income tax returns, which is great, but now how about the other 200 years?” — JIMMY KIMMEL “Yesterday Bernie Sanders released 10 years of his tax returns. Finally, now we can get the answers to all of our Bernie-related financial controversies. Like whether he writes off mothballs as a business expense or a snack.” — STEPHEN COLBERT Jimmy Kimmel made fun of President Trump for tweeting angrily about the fact that Sanders was featured in a Fox News town hall special. “He gets very jealous when his Fox makes other friends.” — JIMMY KIMMEL, referring to the show “Fox and Friends” In the two days since a fire incinerated the roof and spire of the historic Notre-Dame cathedral in Paris, companies have already pledged $700 million toward funding the repairs. Stephen Colbert said we should all be grateful for the generosity — on one condition. “That is absolutely lovely — it’s great these businessmen and corporations are stepping up. I just pray that they don’t sell the naming rights. Because it just would not be the same to visit the Tostitos Notre-Dame Cathedral at Monster Energy Drink Île de la Cité.” — STEPHEN COLBERT “Reality star and new mom Kristin Cavallari for some reason told E! that her husband, former Bears quarterback Jay Cutler, ‘unclogged her milk ducts by “sucking harder than he’s ever sucked.”’ Clearly she has never seen her husband play football.” — STEPHEN COLBERT “President Trump reportedly refers to his daughter Ivanka as ‘baby’ in official meetings. ‘That’s really inappropriate, Daddy,’ said Stephen Miller.” — SETH MEYERS Stephen Colbert hopes that this Brexit special, which he filmed in England over the weekend, leaves him with “three years of agonizing reappraisal.” Sometimes Conan O’Brien puts together skits that are so quirky, they’re not really funny until the very end — at which point they do something that might make you laugh until you’re sore. O’Brien will air his prime-time special “Conan in Australia” on Wednesday night, continuing a tradition of international shows that has already taken him to Italy, Israel, Mexico and many other places. In a miraculous turn of timing, many of the sculptures at Notre-Dame cathedral had been removed just days before, and survived the fire. Plus, Ideas for What to Watch Tonight: The 50 Best Movies on Netflix Right Now The 25 Best Films of the 21st Century The Best Movies on Amazon Prime Video Right NowSupported by By Jeremy W. Peters WASHINGTON — As a religious gay man who believes his party has ceded discussion of religion and spirituality to Republicans, Pete Buttigieg, a Democratic candidate for president, is talking about God and sexuality in an unconventional way: He is using the language of faith to confront the Christian right on territory they have long claimed as their own. Mr. Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Ind., has provoked a backlash from conservatives in the last few days after questioning the moral authority of evangelicals like Vice President Mike Pence who remain silent about President Trump’s personal conduct yet disapprove of same-sex marriages and oppose gay rights. [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] Though many conservatives were initially reluctant to engage Mr. Buttigieg because they feared it would only add to his growing stature as a 2020 contender, they jumped on his latest comments. Some suggested he was attacking the vice president to further raise his profile. Others challenged Mr. Buttigieg’s understanding of Christianity and accused him of smearing the religious convictions of the very people he wants to win over. A devoted Episcopalian who fluidly quotes Scripture and married his husband, Chasten, in a church service last year, Mr. Buttigieg is making the argument that marriage is a “moral issue.” In a speech on Sunday to the Victory Fund, a group that supports gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender politicians, he said his relationship had made him “more compassionate, more understanding, more self-aware and more decent.” He then directly addressed Mr. Pence, as one man of faith talking to another: “And yes, Mr. Vice President, it has moved me closer to God.” This is not the domain where social conservatives and gay rights advocates are used to doing battle. In the decade and a half since same-sex marriage became a galvanizing issue for both sides, the national debate has largely focused on the tension between civil rights and individual freedoms. Mr. Buttigieg has reframed it in religious terms, raising questions about God, morality, sexuality and intolerance that depart from the familiar left-right fault lines. That quickly caught the attention of Republicans and conservative media commentators, who tried to cast his remarks as an unprovoked attack on faith-abiding Christians. Karen Pence, the vice president’s wife, insisted Tuesday that her husband has no quarrel with Mr. Buttigieg. “I don’t think the vice president does have a problem with him,” she said in an interview with Fox News radio. “I think in our country we need to understand you shouldn’t be attacked for what your religious beliefs are,” she added, noting that the speech was probably “helping Pete to get some notoriety.” Mr. Buttigieg, who has been mayor of South Bend since 2012, had a friendly working relationship with Mr. Pence while Mr. Pence was governor of Indiana. They toured factories together and occasionally exchanged text messages. But Mr. Buttigieg has cited Mr. Pence’s support for legislation that made it easier for religious conservatives to refuse service to gay couples as a reason he decided to come out publicly in 2015. Mr. Pence’s office responded to Mr. Buttigieg’s comments this week by releasing an old video clip in which he praised the mayor as a “dedicated public servant and a patriot.” Mr. Buttigieg’s ramped-up attacks on Mr. Pence have miffed the vice president, who has privately told allies that if Mr. Buttigieg had questions about his religious beliefs, he could have asked him at any time during their friendship. The issue followed the vice president to the United Nations on Wednesday, where reporters shouted questions at him about whether being gay was a choice. Mr. Pence walked away without answering. In an interview with CNBC that aired Thursday, Mr. Pence addressed Mr. Buttigieg’s criticism by saying that the mayor “knows me,” and suggested that repeated questioning of his beliefs were a way for Mr. Buttigieg to gain traction in a crowded field. “My family and I have a view of marriage that’s informed by our faith,” Mr. Pence said. “But that doesn’t mean that we’re — that we’re critical of anyone else who has a different point of view.” The reaction from other conservatives has been less measured. A Fox News host, Todd Starnes, accused the mayor of wanting “to shove evangelical Christians into the closet.” Erick Erickson, an evangelical blogger, said that Mr. Buttigieg’s comments about religious conservatives who support Mr. Trump suggest that he “would be O.K. with using the government to persecute Christians.” After Mr. Buttigieg spoke about his beliefs in an interview with USA Today, Mr. Erickson wrote a blog post headlined, “Mayor Pete Buttigieg Apparently Thinks Jesus Would Be Okay With Beastiality.” (Mr. Buttigieg actually said nothing on that subject, though he did quote a favorite Bible verse: “And when you pray, do not be like the hypocrites, for they love to pray standing in the synagogues and on the street corners to be seen by others.”) Mr. Buttigieg has provoked a mixture of concern, derision and faint admiration from conservatives. Some built him up early as an undeniable but stealth force in the race. Rush Limbaugh warned his listeners that someone as articulate, personal and seemingly reasonable as Mr. Buttigieg would be a strong opponent. Ben Shapiro, the writer and podcast host, argued that he was the candidate who could most likely beat Mr. Trump. “Really. He’s not crazy, he’s from the Rust Belt, he served in Afghanistan,” Mr. Shapiro wrote on Twitter. But this week provided a moment of clarity on the right, and the backlash was a reminder of how galvanizing religion and homosexuality can be when evangelicals and other conservatives of faith are convinced that their values are under attack. This sentiment, which was stoked by Mr. Trump and his allies in the Christian right in 2016, was a major factor in the president’s huge margins with white evangelicals. Eighty-one percent voted for him, compared with 16 percent for Hillary Clinton. Indeed, if Mr. Buttigieg continues to gain in the polls, it could prompt the religious right to draw attention to numerous comments he has made about evangelicals and Mr. Trump — “the hypocrisy is unbelievable,” he said on NBC’s “Meet the Press” this week — as conservatives did after Mrs. Clinton called Trump voters a “basket of deplorables.” Ralph Reed, the founder of the Faith and Freedom Coalition, said Mr. Buttigieg’s approach struck him as odd given how so much of his message has been focused on unity and restoring the Democratic Party’s relationship with voters who are more religious and conservative. “It seems to me the solution to that is not to attack the faith of anyone else, whether it is the president, the vice president or anyone else,” Mr. Reed said. “The solution should be to talk about their own faith.” Mr. Buttigieg’s words suggest that he will spend little effort trying to entice any of the president’s most loyal religious supporters. But by pushing the discussion of homosexuality and marriage toward morality and the Bible, he is opening a door to voters of faith who are turned off by the dominance of the Republican Party’s far right but are not yet convinced they could vote for a Democrat. That approach would be similar to the one Barack Obama took in 2008 when he received 26 percent of the white evangelical vote. Mr. Trump’s approval rating among white evangelicals has remained high — 69 percent as of January, according to the Pew Research Center. But that has slipped 9 points since his inauguration. Some evangelical Christians say that the fracture over Mr. Trump within their community runs so deep that the desire for an alternative — especially one like Mr. Buttigieg, who is so temperamentally different from the profane, brash and unpredictable president — will remain strong. Pete Wehner, an evangelical who worked in the George W. Bush White House and has split with his community and his party over Mr. Trump, said the way Mr. Buttigieg speaks with ease and familiarity about Christianity is a trait many voters will find to be a welcome contrast with the president. “It’s not a foreign language to him like it is to Donald Trump, so you’re not going to get ‘Two Corinthians’ from him,” Mr. Wehner said, referring to Mr. Trump’s flub of the Bible book properly referred to as “Second Corinthians.” “He speaks about faith in a way that is largely nonthreatening and not filled with anger,” Mr. Wehner added. “That is a real opening.” But the unflagging devotion that most white evangelicals have for the president suggests that many will be far more concerned with policy results like conservative Supreme Court justices than with electing someone who speaks their language. The relevant question for Mr. Buttigieg is whether there is a critical mass of those who are wavering. “Mayor Pete could not have hoped to capture conservative Christian voters or moderate Christian voters at any point in modern American history — until now,” said Jonathan Merritt, an evangelical author and speaker who disagrees with the decision by evangelical political leaders to stand by the president. Mr. Merritt, who believes the taint of hypocrisy has turned many young evangelicals like him away from traditional leaders, said he remembers growing up in the South when antipathy toward President Bill Clinton and his personal conduct was running hot. The line he remembers seeing and hearing over and over, he said, was “character matters.” Katie Rogers contributed reporting from the United Nations. OpinionFrank Bruni  

Supported by By Jeremy W. Peters WASHINGTON — As a religious gay man who believes his party has ceded discussion of religion and spirituality to Republicans, Pete Buttigieg, a Democratic candidate for president, is talking about God and sexuality in an unconventional way: He is using the language of faith to confront the Christian right on territory they have long claimed as their own. Mr. Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Ind., has provoked a backlash from conservatives in the last few days after questioning the moral authority of evangelicals like Vice President Mike Pence who remain silent about President Trump’s personal conduct yet disapprove of same-sex marriages and oppose gay rights. [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] Though many conservatives were initially reluctant to engage Mr. Buttigieg because they feared it would only add to his growing stature as a 2020 contender, they jumped on his latest comments. Some suggested he was attacking the vice president to further raise his profile. Others challenged Mr. Buttigieg’s understanding of Christianity and accused him of smearing the religious convictions of the very people he wants to win over. A devoted Episcopalian who fluidly quotes Scripture and married his husband, Chasten, in a church service last year, Mr. Buttigieg is making the argument that marriage is a “moral issue.” In a speech on Sunday to the Victory Fund, a group that supports gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender politicians, he said his relationship had made him “more compassionate, more understanding, more self-aware and more decent.” He then directly addressed Mr. Pence, as one man of faith talking to another: “And yes, Mr. Vice President, it has moved me closer to God.” This is not the domain where social conservatives and gay rights advocates are used to doing battle. In the decade and a half since same-sex marriage became a galvanizing issue for both sides, the national debate has largely focused on the tension between civil rights and individual freedoms. Mr. Buttigieg has reframed it in religious terms, raising questions about God, morality, sexuality and intolerance that depart from the familiar left-right fault lines. That quickly caught the attention of Republicans and conservative media commentators, who tried to cast his remarks as an unprovoked attack on faith-abiding Christians. Karen Pence, the vice president’s wife, insisted Tuesday that her husband has no quarrel with Mr. Buttigieg. “I don’t think the vice president does have a problem with him,” she said in an interview with Fox News radio. “I think in our country we need to understand you shouldn’t be attacked for what your religious beliefs are,” she added, noting that the speech was probably “helping Pete to get some notoriety.” Mr. Buttigieg, who has been mayor of South Bend since 2012, had a friendly working relationship with Mr. Pence while Mr. Pence was governor of Indiana. They toured factories together and occasionally exchanged text messages. But Mr. Buttigieg has cited Mr. Pence’s support for legislation that made it easier for religious conservatives to refuse service to gay couples as a reason he decided to come out publicly in 2015. Mr. Pence’s office responded to Mr. Buttigieg’s comments this week by releasing an old video clip in which he praised the mayor as a “dedicated public servant and a patriot.” Mr. Buttigieg’s ramped-up attacks on Mr. Pence have miffed the vice president, who has privately told allies that if Mr. Buttigieg had questions about his religious beliefs, he could have asked him at any time during their friendship. The issue followed the vice president to the United Nations on Wednesday, where reporters shouted questions at him about whether being gay was a choice. Mr. Pence walked away without answering. In an interview with CNBC that aired Thursday, Mr. Pence addressed Mr. Buttigieg’s criticism by saying that the mayor “knows me,” and suggested that repeated questioning of his beliefs were a way for Mr. Buttigieg to gain traction in a crowded field. “My family and I have a view of marriage that’s informed by our faith,” Mr. Pence said. “But that doesn’t mean that we’re — that we’re critical of anyone else who has a different point of view.” The reaction from other conservatives has been less measured. A Fox News host, Todd Starnes, accused the mayor of wanting “to shove evangelical Christians into the closet.” Erick Erickson, an evangelical blogger, said that Mr. Buttigieg’s comments about religious conservatives who support Mr. Trump suggest that he “would be O.K. with using the government to persecute Christians.” After Mr. Buttigieg spoke about his beliefs in an interview with USA Today, Mr. Erickson wrote a blog post headlined, “Mayor Pete Buttigieg Apparently Thinks Jesus Would Be Okay With Beastiality.” (Mr. Buttigieg actually said nothing on that subject, though he did quote a favorite Bible verse: “And when you pray, do not be like the hypocrites, for they love to pray standing in the synagogues and on the street corners to be seen by others.”) Mr. Buttigieg has provoked a mixture of concern, derision and faint admiration from conservatives. Some built him up early as an undeniable but stealth force in the race. Rush Limbaugh warned his listeners that someone as articulate, personal and seemingly reasonable as Mr. Buttigieg would be a strong opponent. Ben Shapiro, the writer and podcast host, argued that he was the candidate who could most likely beat Mr. Trump. “Really. He’s not crazy, he’s from the Rust Belt, he served in Afghanistan,” Mr. Shapiro wrote on Twitter. But this week provided a moment of clarity on the right, and the backlash was a reminder of how galvanizing religion and homosexuality can be when evangelicals and other conservatives of faith are convinced that their values are under attack. This sentiment, which was stoked by Mr. Trump and his allies in the Christian right in 2016, was a major factor in the president’s huge margins with white evangelicals. Eighty-one percent voted for him, compared with 16 percent for Hillary Clinton. Indeed, if Mr. Buttigieg continues to gain in the polls, it could prompt the religious right to draw attention to numerous comments he has made about evangelicals and Mr. Trump — “the hypocrisy is unbelievable,” he said on NBC’s “Meet the Press” this week — as conservatives did after Mrs. Clinton called Trump voters a “basket of deplorables.” Ralph Reed, the founder of the Faith and Freedom Coalition, said Mr. Buttigieg’s approach struck him as odd given how so much of his message has been focused on unity and restoring the Democratic Party’s relationship with voters who are more religious and conservative. “It seems to me the solution to that is not to attack the faith of anyone else, whether it is the president, the vice president or anyone else,” Mr. Reed said. “The solution should be to talk about their own faith.” Mr. Buttigieg’s words suggest that he will spend little effort trying to entice any of the president’s most loyal religious supporters. But by pushing the discussion of homosexuality and marriage toward morality and the Bible, he is opening a door to voters of faith who are turned off by the dominance of the Republican Party’s far right but are not yet convinced they could vote for a Democrat. That approach would be similar to the one Barack Obama took in 2008 when he received 26 percent of the white evangelical vote. Mr. Trump’s approval rating among white evangelicals has remained high — 69 percent as of January, according to the Pew Research Center. But that has slipped 9 points since his inauguration. Some evangelical Christians say that the fracture over Mr. Trump within their community runs so deep that the desire for an alternative — especially one like Mr. Buttigieg, who is so temperamentally different from the profane, brash and unpredictable president — will remain strong. Pete Wehner, an evangelical who worked in the George W. Bush White House and has split with his community and his party over Mr. Trump, said the way Mr. Buttigieg speaks with ease and familiarity about Christianity is a trait many voters will find to be a welcome contrast with the president. “It’s not a foreign language to him like it is to Donald Trump, so you’re not going to get ‘Two Corinthians’ from him,” Mr. Wehner said, referring to Mr. Trump’s flub of the Bible book properly referred to as “Second Corinthians.” “He speaks about faith in a way that is largely nonthreatening and not filled with anger,” Mr. Wehner added. “That is a real opening.” But the unflagging devotion that most white evangelicals have for the president suggests that many will be far more concerned with policy results like conservative Supreme Court justices than with electing someone who speaks their language. The relevant question for Mr. Buttigieg is whether there is a critical mass of those who are wavering. “Mayor Pete could not have hoped to capture conservative Christian voters or moderate Christian voters at any point in modern American history — until now,” said Jonathan Merritt, an evangelical author and speaker who disagrees with the decision by evangelical political leaders to stand by the president. Mr. Merritt, who believes the taint of hypocrisy has turned many young evangelicals like him away from traditional leaders, said he remembers growing up in the South when antipathy toward President Bill Clinton and his personal conduct was running hot. The line he remembers seeing and hearing over and over, he said, was “character matters.” Katie Rogers contributed reporting from the United Nations. OpinionFrank Bruni  Supported by By Tiffany Hsu Sexual misconduct claims have toppled many powerful men in recent years, including the billionaire casino mogul Steve Wynn. But few companies have faced regulatory fines for how they handled the accusations. On Tuesday, the Nevada Gaming Commission fined Wynn Resorts, the casino empire that Mr. Wynn founded and ran for years, $20 million for ignoring multiple complaints about his behavior. The fine, which the commission approved unanimously, is the largest imposed against a gambling licensee in Nevada. The previous record was $5.5 million in 2014. “It demonstrates a recognition that papering over sexual harassment and assault is a form of corporate corruption that is within the scope of regulators’ jurisdiction,” said Emily Martin, the vice president for education and workplace justice at the National Women’s Law Center. “It is an important reflection of the fact that, while harassment and assault harms victims and they need to be compensated, it also has broader harms.” Mr. Wynn resigned as the company’s chairman and chief executive last February after a Wall Street Journal report described a decades-long pattern of sexual misconduct, including accusations that he pressured employees for sex. He was not paid severance and liquidated his shares in Wynn Resorts. Mr. Wynn, 77, denied the allegations, but faced immediate and intense backlash. He resigned as finance chairman of the Republican National Committee, and his name was removed from university buildings and programs. Shareholders filed multiple lawsuits, and several regulatory agencies began investigations into the allegations. Last month, Wynn Resorts and the Nevada Gaming Commission reached a settlement that allowed the company to keep its gambling license. The company acknowledged allegations, laid out by the agency, that several executives and board members had known about complaints against Mr. Wynn. Those complaints included an accusation from a former salon employee that Mr. Wynn raped her and made her pregnant, a claim he paid $7.5 million in 2005 to settle. A cocktail server said Mr. Wynn had pressured her to have sex from 2005 to 2006, resulting in a $975,000 settlement with Mr. Wynn but no investigation by the company, according to the gaming commission. Wynn Resorts said in a statement that it had gone through a “paradigm shift” over the past year and “refreshed its culture.” It said that women now made up nearly half its board and that it had removed all employees who were aware of but did not act on the allegations against Mr. Wynn. “The completion of the review by Nevada regulators is an important step forward, and we deeply appreciate the trust and confidence they have placed in the new leadership of Wynn Resorts to grow and prosper,” the company said. The allegations against Mr. Wynn raised concerns that damage to the company’s reputation could imperil lucrative Wynn properties in Macau and a development project in Massachusetts. Companies are often held legally liable in sexual misconduct cases. CBS has made multiple payouts to women with harassment and sexual assault claims. Fox News also struck agreements to settle sexual harassment allegations against Bill O’Reilly. But regulatory fines in such situations are uncommon, said Ms. Martin, the legal expert. The gaming commission’s involvement in the Wynn case, she said, shows “the cultural shift that has caused these matters to be taken seriously as issues of corporate governance as well as individual behavior.” Follow Tiffany Hsu on Twitter: @tiffkhsu.

Supported by By Tiffany Hsu Sexual misconduct claims have toppled many powerful men in recent years, including the billionaire casino mogul Steve Wynn. But few companies have faced regulatory fines for how they handled the accusations. On Tuesday, the Nevada Gaming Commission fined Wynn Resorts, the casino empire that Mr. Wynn founded and ran for years, $20 million for ignoring multiple complaints about his behavior. The fine, which the commission approved unanimously, is the largest imposed against a gambling licensee in Nevada. The previous record was $5.5 million in 2014. “It demonstrates a recognition that papering over sexual harassment and assault is a form of corporate corruption that is within the scope of regulators’ jurisdiction,” said Emily Martin, the vice president for education and workplace justice at the National Women’s Law Center. “It is an important reflection of the fact that, while harassment and assault harms victims and they need to be compensated, it also has broader harms.” Mr. Wynn resigned as the company’s chairman and chief executive last February after a Wall Street Journal report described a decades-long pattern of sexual misconduct, including accusations that he pressured employees for sex. He was not paid severance and liquidated his shares in Wynn Resorts. Mr. Wynn, 77, denied the allegations, but faced immediate and intense backlash. He resigned as finance chairman of the Republican National Committee, and his name was removed from university buildings and programs. Shareholders filed multiple lawsuits, and several regulatory agencies began investigations into the allegations. Last month, Wynn Resorts and the Nevada Gaming Commission reached a settlement that allowed the company to keep its gambling license. The company acknowledged allegations, laid out by the agency, that several executives and board members had known about complaints against Mr. Wynn. Those complaints included an accusation from a former salon employee that Mr. Wynn raped her and made her pregnant, a claim he paid $7.5 million in 2005 to settle. A cocktail server said Mr. Wynn had pressured her to have sex from 2005 to 2006, resulting in a $975,000 settlement with Mr. Wynn but no investigation by the company, according to the gaming commission. Wynn Resorts said in a statement that it had gone through a “paradigm shift” over the past year and “refreshed its culture.” It said that women now made up nearly half its board and that it had removed all employees who were aware of but did not act on the allegations against Mr. Wynn. “The completion of the review by Nevada regulators is an important step forward, and we deeply appreciate the trust and confidence they have placed in the new leadership of Wynn Resorts to grow and prosper,” the company said. The allegations against Mr. Wynn raised concerns that damage to the company’s reputation could imperil lucrative Wynn properties in Macau and a development project in Massachusetts. Companies are often held legally liable in sexual misconduct cases. CBS has made multiple payouts to women with harassment and sexual assault claims. Fox News also struck agreements to settle sexual harassment allegations against Bill O’Reilly. But regulatory fines in such situations are uncommon, said Ms. Martin, the legal expert. The gaming commission’s involvement in the Wynn case, she said, shows “the cultural shift that has caused these matters to be taken seriously as issues of corporate governance as well as individual behavior.” Follow Tiffany Hsu on Twitter: @tiffkhsu.Supported by By Jeremy W. Peters WASHINGTON — Republican leaders are sharpening and poll-testing lines of attack that portray Democratic policies on health care, the environment and abortion as far outside the norm, in hopes of arming President Trump with hyperbolic sound bites — some of them false — asserting that Democrats would cause long waits for doctors or make killing babies after birth legal. The blunt messaging underscores one of the biggest challenges facing Democrats as they try to defeat the incumbent president: the need to define themselves and their ideas before Mr. Trump and his conservative allies do it for them. The Republican National Committee has already begun polling in 16 states to assess ways to discredit ideas like “Medicare for all,” which Senator Bernie Sanders proposed in a bill this week, and build on the party’s broader argument that Democratic candidates like Mr. Sanders are promoting an extreme socialist agenda. Social conservative leaders have met with White House officials to discuss calling attention to Democratic-sponsored legislation to loosen restrictions on abortion in the second and third trimesters, like one that passed recently in New York. [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] The recent focus on health care and abortion follows well-coordinated attacks on policies like the Green New Deal, which reduced the far-reaching climate change proposal to a punch line with jokes about cow flatulence and putting farms out of business. Some Democratic strategists said they have been taken aback recently by how successful Mr. Trump and Republicans have been at setting the terms of the debate around liberal policy ideas. And they are encouraging their party to be more nimble and deliver a more concise and accessible message. In a fight with Mr. Trump, they say, nuance is not usually the Democrats’ best weapon. “What our side has to understand is that to fight Trump it’s a battle for definition,” said Celinda Lake, a top Democratic pollster who has been working with left-of-center groups on a strategy to counter the messaging campaign from the right. “The Democrats will issue a 61-page white paper that nobody in their right mind will pass on to their friends,” she added. “He uses a one-sentence slogan, and his voters feel emboldened to share it, pass it on.” Democrats say they expect an asymmetrical battle against an opponent who makes his own rules and possesses a singular ability to saturate the national conversation. This can cut both ways, especially on issues like immigration where his fitful threats to close the southern border may cast him as more of a crisis instigator than mitigator. In 2018, Mr. Trump’s alarmist warnings about the Central American migrant caravan and his exaggerated claims about immigrants and crime were divisive with many suburban voters and contributed to Democratic victories that helped the party win the House. Still, the president’s purge of the Homeland Security Department this week signals his belief that strict immigration enforcement is a winning issue for him. And while the wall he promised in 2016 remains unbuilt, he will continue to look for new ways to hold a hard line on border security. It is not clear whether any of the Republican messaging is having an impact on voters outside of the president’s so far unmovable base. But Ms. Lake said that as she surveyed likely 2020 swing voters, she was surprised to hear people in focus groups repeat false assertions made by the president and his allies — that Democrats would end air travel in the United States and shut down dairy farms and beef production because of greenhouse gas emissions from cows. “It’s amazing the number of people who would volunteer that,” she said. The actual language in the proposal calls for cleaner transportation and agriculture “as much as is technologically feasible.” The misperception about cows and airplanes originated with a now-retracted fact sheet published by Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez’s office that contained an ironic aside about getting rid of “farting cows and airplanes.” Republicans said they also saw “Medicare for all”-type proposals as a way to give their rallying cries on socialism more substance and potency. Some plans, like the one put forward by Mr. Sanders, would largely eliminate private insurance plans, which Republicans have found is overwhelmingly unpopular with the kinds of voters they need to win back. [Who’s running for president in 2020? Keep up with who’s in and who’s out with our candidate tracker.] “The debate that’s going to play out in suburbs across the country is a choice between capitalism versus socialism,” said Ronna McDaniel, the chairwoman of the Republican National Committee. “When Democrats talk about abolishing private health insurance, for example, most of my friends are on private insurance plans through their jobs or their husbands’ jobs. They don’t want to lose that. They don’t want to wait in line to get to the pediatrician.” “Whichever Democrat wins the nomination will have to own their party’s socialist agenda,” she added. “That’s a debate that President Trump is eager to have and knows he can win.” The Republicans’ data on voters from the 2018 midterms showed that coverage of pre-existing medical conditions was the top issue of concern. But here they face a serious disadvantage: They have no health care plan of their own. But they have been testing messaging on health care with likely voters in the 16 states they believe will be the most competitive in 2020. These include ones Mr. Trump narrowly won like Michigan, Wisconsin and Florida, as well as those he won by larger margins but have tilted more Democratic lately, like Arizona and North Carolina. The R.N.C. found that when voters were told that “Medicare for all” would eliminate private insurance and create a government-run system paid for by higher taxes, independents, married women and union members disliked the idea by wide margins. Among married women alone, nearly 60 percent disapproved. Mr. Trump’s own approach at labeling Democrats has been inconsistent. He has yet to come up with the kind of indelible rhetorical device that he used repeatedly to brand his opponents in 2016. So far he has nothing like “Crooked Hillary,” “Little Marco’’ and “Low-energy Jeb,” which delighted many of his supporters two years ago. But he has occasionally made graphic and false claims that Democrats support legislation that would allow “executing babies AFTER birth,” as he said in a recent tweet. During a meeting at the White House before his State of the Union address that included some conservative activists, Mr. Trump expressed amazement at comments by the governor of Virginia, Ralph Northam, who had to clarify his defense of abortion in later stages of pregnancy after activists accused him of saying doctors should be able to kill a baby born alive during the procedure. “Can you believe this governor?’’ the president said, according to two people at the meeting, who said that he was surprisingly animated about the subject and vowed to keep mentioning it. The Centers for Disease Control says such late-term abortions are extremely rare. Only about 1.3 percent of abortions in the United States in 2015 were performed in or after the 21st week of pregnancy, the agency reported. But anti-abortion activists said the efforts in some states like New York and Virginia to remove certain barriers to second- and third-trimester abortions allowed them to present the issue to voters in a new and graphic light. Democrats have struggled to defend the new legislation; privately some say they are not being persuasive in explaining the health situations the bills address while the other side accuses them of condoning infanticide. While polls show that Americans support allowing abortion in the first three months by wide margins, that support drops sharply when people are asked in general about the second and third trimesters. (They overwhelmingly support exceptions if the mother’s life is endangered.) “We’re in a totally different environment,” said Mallory Quigley, vice president of communications for the Susan B. Anthony List, a group that opposes abortion rights and that plans to test messages on the issue with voters in the months ahead. Democrats say they cannot let Mr. Trump and other Republicans go unanswered as they try to link the party to socialism — a term that Americans view negatively over all — and to extremism in a broader sense. That has been the motivation behind Republicans’ intense focus on two young, freshman members of Congress: Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, the congresswoman from Queens who calls herself a democratic socialist; and Ilhan Omar of Minnesota, whose criticism of Israel led the president and others to condemn her as an anti-Semite. Some of Ms. Omar’s most vocal defenders have been self-described democratic socialists. Even if Americans say they like policies that are derivative of socialism, like Social Security, the term “connotes very clear imagery to people in a very dog whistle kind of way,” said Jefrey Pollock, president of the Global Strategy group, which advises Democrats on messaging. “Then they attach faces to it,” he added, “and I think it can have resonance, and it has had resonance.” The effort on the right to elevate Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, 29, as the most prominent socialist foil is something Democrats are watching, Mr. Pollock said. “She is, of course, six years away from being able to run for president. But they are still trying to make her the face of the party.” Conservatives have extended this line of attack beyond candidates like Mr. Sanders, who identifies as a democratic socialist. They are using it on other 2020 contenders like Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Ind. Laura Ingraham, the Fox News host, last week accused Mr. Buttigieg’s father, who died recently, and who had taught at the University of Notre Dame, of being “a committed Marxist, who affectionately embraced the Communist Manifesto.” She cited a Washington Examiner report as evidence. Democrats’ own research has found this approach to be effective with the Republican base, which can be more aware of liberal policies like the Green New Deal than liberals are. When Global Strategy Group and GBA Strategies surveyed Fox News viewers last month, they found that Republicans who watch Fox are more than twice as likely as all other groups to have heard about the plan than Democrats. Their verdict? Seventy-seven percent of them are very concerned about the influence of socialism in the Democratic Party.   OpinionMichelle Goldberg

Supported by By Jeremy W. Peters WASHINGTON — Republican leaders are sharpening and poll-testing lines of attack that portray Democratic policies on health care, the environment and abortion as far outside the norm, in hopes of arming President Trump with hyperbolic sound bites — some of them false — asserting that Democrats would cause long waits for doctors or make killing babies after birth legal. The blunt messaging underscores one of the biggest challenges facing Democrats as they try to defeat the incumbent president: the need to define themselves and their ideas before Mr. Trump and his conservative allies do it for them. The Republican National Committee has already begun polling in 16 states to assess ways to discredit ideas like “Medicare for all,” which Senator Bernie Sanders proposed in a bill this week, and build on the party’s broader argument that Democratic candidates like Mr. Sanders are promoting an extreme socialist agenda. Social conservative leaders have met with White House officials to discuss calling attention to Democratic-sponsored legislation to loosen restrictions on abortion in the second and third trimesters, like one that passed recently in New York. [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] The recent focus on health care and abortion follows well-coordinated attacks on policies like the Green New Deal, which reduced the far-reaching climate change proposal to a punch line with jokes about cow flatulence and putting farms out of business. Some Democratic strategists said they have been taken aback recently by how successful Mr. Trump and Republicans have been at setting the terms of the debate around liberal policy ideas. And they are encouraging their party to be more nimble and deliver a more concise and accessible message. In a fight with Mr. Trump, they say, nuance is not usually the Democrats’ best weapon. “What our side has to understand is that to fight Trump it’s a battle for definition,” said Celinda Lake, a top Democratic pollster who has been working with left-of-center groups on a strategy to counter the messaging campaign from the right. “The Democrats will issue a 61-page white paper that nobody in their right mind will pass on to their friends,” she added. “He uses a one-sentence slogan, and his voters feel emboldened to share it, pass it on.” Democrats say they expect an asymmetrical battle against an opponent who makes his own rules and possesses a singular ability to saturate the national conversation. This can cut both ways, especially on issues like immigration where his fitful threats to close the southern border may cast him as more of a crisis instigator than mitigator. In 2018, Mr. Trump’s alarmist warnings about the Central American migrant caravan and his exaggerated claims about immigrants and crime were divisive with many suburban voters and contributed to Democratic victories that helped the party win the House. Still, the president’s purge of the Homeland Security Department this week signals his belief that strict immigration enforcement is a winning issue for him. And while the wall he promised in 2016 remains unbuilt, he will continue to look for new ways to hold a hard line on border security. It is not clear whether any of the Republican messaging is having an impact on voters outside of the president’s so far unmovable base. But Ms. Lake said that as she surveyed likely 2020 swing voters, she was surprised to hear people in focus groups repeat false assertions made by the president and his allies — that Democrats would end air travel in the United States and shut down dairy farms and beef production because of greenhouse gas emissions from cows. “It’s amazing the number of people who would volunteer that,” she said. The actual language in the proposal calls for cleaner transportation and agriculture “as much as is technologically feasible.” The misperception about cows and airplanes originated with a now-retracted fact sheet published by Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez’s office that contained an ironic aside about getting rid of “farting cows and airplanes.” Republicans said they also saw “Medicare for all”-type proposals as a way to give their rallying cries on socialism more substance and potency. Some plans, like the one put forward by Mr. Sanders, would largely eliminate private insurance plans, which Republicans have found is overwhelmingly unpopular with the kinds of voters they need to win back. [Who’s running for president in 2020? Keep up with who’s in and who’s out with our candidate tracker.] “The debate that’s going to play out in suburbs across the country is a choice between capitalism versus socialism,” said Ronna McDaniel, the chairwoman of the Republican National Committee. “When Democrats talk about abolishing private health insurance, for example, most of my friends are on private insurance plans through their jobs or their husbands’ jobs. They don’t want to lose that. They don’t want to wait in line to get to the pediatrician.” “Whichever Democrat wins the nomination will have to own their party’s socialist agenda,” she added. “That’s a debate that President Trump is eager to have and knows he can win.” The Republicans’ data on voters from the 2018 midterms showed that coverage of pre-existing medical conditions was the top issue of concern. But here they face a serious disadvantage: They have no health care plan of their own. But they have been testing messaging on health care with likely voters in the 16 states they believe will be the most competitive in 2020. These include ones Mr. Trump narrowly won like Michigan, Wisconsin and Florida, as well as those he won by larger margins but have tilted more Democratic lately, like Arizona and North Carolina. The R.N.C. found that when voters were told that “Medicare for all” would eliminate private insurance and create a government-run system paid for by higher taxes, independents, married women and union members disliked the idea by wide margins. Among married women alone, nearly 60 percent disapproved. Mr. Trump’s own approach at labeling Democrats has been inconsistent. He has yet to come up with the kind of indelible rhetorical device that he used repeatedly to brand his opponents in 2016. So far he has nothing like “Crooked Hillary,” “Little Marco’’ and “Low-energy Jeb,” which delighted many of his supporters two years ago. But he has occasionally made graphic and false claims that Democrats support legislation that would allow “executing babies AFTER birth,” as he said in a recent tweet. During a meeting at the White House before his State of the Union address that included some conservative activists, Mr. Trump expressed amazement at comments by the governor of Virginia, Ralph Northam, who had to clarify his defense of abortion in later stages of pregnancy after activists accused him of saying doctors should be able to kill a baby born alive during the procedure. “Can you believe this governor?’’ the president said, according to two people at the meeting, who said that he was surprisingly animated about the subject and vowed to keep mentioning it. The Centers for Disease Control says such late-term abortions are extremely rare. Only about 1.3 percent of abortions in the United States in 2015 were performed in or after the 21st week of pregnancy, the agency reported. But anti-abortion activists said the efforts in some states like New York and Virginia to remove certain barriers to second- and third-trimester abortions allowed them to present the issue to voters in a new and graphic light. Democrats have struggled to defend the new legislation; privately some say they are not being persuasive in explaining the health situations the bills address while the other side accuses them of condoning infanticide. While polls show that Americans support allowing abortion in the first three months by wide margins, that support drops sharply when people are asked in general about the second and third trimesters. (They overwhelmingly support exceptions if the mother’s life is endangered.) “We’re in a totally different environment,” said Mallory Quigley, vice president of communications for the Susan B. Anthony List, a group that opposes abortion rights and that plans to test messages on the issue with voters in the months ahead. Democrats say they cannot let Mr. Trump and other Republicans go unanswered as they try to link the party to socialism — a term that Americans view negatively over all — and to extremism in a broader sense. That has been the motivation behind Republicans’ intense focus on two young, freshman members of Congress: Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, the congresswoman from Queens who calls herself a democratic socialist; and Ilhan Omar of Minnesota, whose criticism of Israel led the president and others to condemn her as an anti-Semite. Some of Ms. Omar’s most vocal defenders have been self-described democratic socialists. Even if Americans say they like policies that are derivative of socialism, like Social Security, the term “connotes very clear imagery to people in a very dog whistle kind of way,” said Jefrey Pollock, president of the Global Strategy group, which advises Democrats on messaging. “Then they attach faces to it,” he added, “and I think it can have resonance, and it has had resonance.” The effort on the right to elevate Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, 29, as the most prominent socialist foil is something Democrats are watching, Mr. Pollock said. “She is, of course, six years away from being able to run for president. But they are still trying to make her the face of the party.” Conservatives have extended this line of attack beyond candidates like Mr. Sanders, who identifies as a democratic socialist. They are using it on other 2020 contenders like Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Ind. Laura Ingraham, the Fox News host, last week accused Mr. Buttigieg’s father, who died recently, and who had taught at the University of Notre Dame, of being “a committed Marxist, who affectionately embraced the Communist Manifesto.” She cited a Washington Examiner report as evidence. Democrats’ own research has found this approach to be effective with the Republican base, which can be more aware of liberal policies like the Green New Deal than liberals are. When Global Strategy Group and GBA Strategies surveyed Fox News viewers last month, they found that Republicans who watch Fox are more than twice as likely as all other groups to have heard about the plan than Democrats. Their verdict? Seventy-seven percent of them are very concerned about the influence of socialism in the Democratic Party.   OpinionMichelle GoldbergSupported by Best of Late Night By Giovanni Russonello Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox. The actor Jussie Smollett, facing charges of falsely reporting a hate crime in Chicago, was delivered an unexpected win on Tuesday when the Cook County state’s attorney dropped all 16 counts against him. Both Stephen Colbert and James Corden drew a parallel between this and another bit of recent news: Attorney General William P. Barr’s interpretation of a report filed by the special counsel, Robert Mueller, investigating collusion between Russia and the Trump campaign. “This morning, we learned that, for some reason, charges have been dropped against ‘Empire’ actor Jussie Smollett. Man, Bill Barr has been busy.” — STEPHEN COLBERT “Yes, it is wrong. But on the other hand, isn’t it a hopeful sign for America that regardless of your race or sexual orientation, all rich famous people get off easily?” — STEPHEN COLBERT  “Smollett isn’t being charged with a crime, but he hasn’t been officially ‘exonerated.’ So if nothing else, he is now qualified to be president of the United States.” — JAMES CORDEN “No word yet on whether Smollett will be invited to return to his role on ‘Empire.’ But it is very impressive that one person might be too much drama for the show ‘Empire.’” — JAMES CORDEN President Trump and his allies on Fox News this week have not just been celebrating the outcome of the Mueller investigation. They have also been calling for the architects behind the investigation to be punished. Insisting that the entire thing was a ruse, Trump said on Tuesday: “We can never let this to happen to another president again.” Trevor Noah sarcastically bashed that response, while impersonating him. “Which is why I won’t allow America to have another president ever again, folks. I can’t allow it. No more.” — TREVOR NOAH, impersonating Trump “By the way, have you ever noticed that Trump is terrible at comforting victims unless it’s him? Because you never hear this level of compassion from Trump about, like, Puerto Rico. When that happens, he’s like, ‘Here’s one paper towel. Go long!’” — TREVOR NOAH Sarah Huckabee-Sanders, the White House press secretary, said Democrats should be “ashamed” for having supported the Mueller investigation. “Yeah, these Democrats should be ashamed! They used this investigation to try and take down the president? If you want to take down a president, you do it the right way: by claiming he was born in Kenya! This is disgusting!” — TREVOR NOAH Corden, Cara Delevingne and Kobe Bryant tried their best to both embarrass and gross each other out. That’s the point of this cruel game, Spill Your Guts. “Barrnotes:” They’re like SparkNotes, except they’ll give you “just enough information to leave you confused and angry.” Snoop Dogg will join Jimmy Kimmel on Wednesday to talk about his new show with — truly now — Martha Stewart. New York’s New Directors/New Films festival is a post-awards-season opportunity to catch offbeat films you might’ve missed elsewhere. Often, there are gems hidden among them. Here are the 11 movies at New Films that our critics think you should know about. Plus, Ideas for What to Watch Tonight: The 50 Best Movies on Netflix Right Now The 25 Best Films of the 21st Century The Best Movies on Amazon Prime Video Right Now

Supported by Best of Late Night By Giovanni Russonello Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox. The actor Jussie Smollett, facing charges of falsely reporting a hate crime in Chicago, was delivered an unexpected win on Tuesday when the Cook County state’s attorney dropped all 16 counts against him. Both Stephen Colbert and James Corden drew a parallel between this and another bit of recent news: Attorney General William P. Barr’s interpretation of a report filed by the special counsel, Robert Mueller, investigating collusion between Russia and the Trump campaign. “This morning, we learned that, for some reason, charges have been dropped against ‘Empire’ actor Jussie Smollett. Man, Bill Barr has been busy.” — STEPHEN COLBERT “Yes, it is wrong. But on the other hand, isn’t it a hopeful sign for America that regardless of your race or sexual orientation, all rich famous people get off easily?” — STEPHEN COLBERT  “Smollett isn’t being charged with a crime, but he hasn’t been officially ‘exonerated.’ So if nothing else, he is now qualified to be president of the United States.” — JAMES CORDEN “No word yet on whether Smollett will be invited to return to his role on ‘Empire.’ But it is very impressive that one person might be too much drama for the show ‘Empire.’” — JAMES CORDEN President Trump and his allies on Fox News this week have not just been celebrating the outcome of the Mueller investigation. They have also been calling for the architects behind the investigation to be punished. Insisting that the entire thing was a ruse, Trump said on Tuesday: “We can never let this to happen to another president again.” Trevor Noah sarcastically bashed that response, while impersonating him. “Which is why I won’t allow America to have another president ever again, folks. I can’t allow it. No more.” — TREVOR NOAH, impersonating Trump “By the way, have you ever noticed that Trump is terrible at comforting victims unless it’s him? Because you never hear this level of compassion from Trump about, like, Puerto Rico. When that happens, he’s like, ‘Here’s one paper towel. Go long!’” — TREVOR NOAH Sarah Huckabee-Sanders, the White House press secretary, said Democrats should be “ashamed” for having supported the Mueller investigation. “Yeah, these Democrats should be ashamed! They used this investigation to try and take down the president? If you want to take down a president, you do it the right way: by claiming he was born in Kenya! This is disgusting!” — TREVOR NOAH Corden, Cara Delevingne and Kobe Bryant tried their best to both embarrass and gross each other out. That’s the point of this cruel game, Spill Your Guts. “Barrnotes:” They’re like SparkNotes, except they’ll give you “just enough information to leave you confused and angry.” Snoop Dogg will join Jimmy Kimmel on Wednesday to talk about his new show with — truly now — Martha Stewart. New York’s New Directors/New Films festival is a post-awards-season opportunity to catch offbeat films you might’ve missed elsewhere. Often, there are gems hidden among them. Here are the 11 movies at New Films that our critics think you should know about. Plus, Ideas for What to Watch Tonight: The 50 Best Movies on Netflix Right Now The 25 Best Films of the 21st Century The Best Movies on Amazon Prime Video Right NowSupported by By Nicholas Fandos WASHINGTON — Top House Democrats, anxiously awaiting the findings of the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, insisted on Sunday that their own investigations must go on regardless of whether the Justice Department accuses President Trump of wrongdoing. Expecting the “principal conclusions” of Mr. Mueller’s 22-month investigation to be made public by Attorney General William P. Barr as soon as Sunday afternoon but lacking any information on its findings, they sought to play down Mr. Mueller’s investigation into Russia’s election interference and possible ties to the Trump campaign as a relatively narrow endeavor that does not relieve Congress of its own oversight responsibility. “The job of Congress is much broader than the job of special counsel,” Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, the House Judiciary Committee chairman, said on “Fox News Sunday.” “The special counsel was looking and can only look for crimes. We have to protect the rule of law. We have to look for abuses of power. We have to look for obstruction of justice. We have to look for corruption.” Mr. Nadler said that Congress must see Mr. Mueller’s full report and evidence — not just a summary from Mr. Barr — and that he would use a subpoena and take the fight to the Supreme Court if necessary to secure those. Mr. Nadler, whose committee would oversee a potential impeachment of the president, said it was “way too early” to discuss such impeachment. Republicans, meanwhile, were eager to portray Democrats as already disappointed by the mystery report and poised to overreach their authority in a desperate effort to damage Mr. Trump politically. Citing a Justice Department comment that there would be no additional indictments from the special counsel, Representative Doug Collins of Georgia, Mr. Nadler’s Republican counterpart on the Judiciary Committee, said it was increasingly apparent that the president had been “proved right.” “Let’s be honest with the facts and say probably what the facts show is there was no collusion,” Mr. Collins said on Fox. “Let’s go to the logical choice, that nothing happened.” Mr. Collins also threw cold water on Democrats’ demands for Mr. Mueller’s evidence, saying it was “not the Department of Justice’s job” to turn over material, especially classified and grand jury information, “to go off on a purely partisan investigation to lead toward impeachment.” It was a marked turnabout from Republicans’ position when they were in charge and demanding access to documents for their investigations of F.B.I. and Justice Department conduct. Other Republicans took different tracks. Representative Devin Nunes of California, the top Republican on the Intelligence Committee and one of the leading critics of the Mueller investigation, said whatever had been filed was a “partisan document.” “We can just burn it up,” he said on “Fox and Friends.” He called instead for continued investigation of the F.B.I.’s surveillance of a former Trump campaign aide, Carter Page, and its handling of an unverified dossier assembled by a former British spy laying out a purported conspiracy between Trump associates and Russia. Neither side, to be clear, is in a position to know. Mr. Mueller delivered his full report to Mr. Barr on Friday and its contents have been shared only with a small group of top officials at the Justice Department who spent Friday night, Saturday and early Sunday scouring it to produce a document to share with Congress. Hogan Gidley, a White House spokesman, said that as of Sunday morning, the president’s team had not been briefed on the report. Mr. Trump, spending the weekend at his Palm Beach, Fla., club, on Sunday continued to keep an uncharacteristic silence over the investigation’s conclusion. Tweeting for the first time since Mr. Mueller handed in his report Friday, Mr. Trump told his 59 million followers, “Good Morning, Have A Great Day!” Mr. Mueller himself was spotted attending Sunday services at St. John’s Church just steps from the White House. Rumors have blossomed in the information vacuum, and critics and defenders of the president have increasingly traded shots over what they think the report will say. In a tweet on Saturday, Rudolph W. Giuliani, Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer, asked Representative Adam B. Schiff of California, the chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, to apologize for saying there was public evidence of collusion between Mr. Trump’s team and Russia. “I hope he will apologize for his mistake,” Mr. Giuliani wrote. “We all make them. The real virtue is to admit it. It would help us heal.” But Mr. Schiff, appearing on ABC’s “This Week,” was prepared to make no such recompense. Instead, he said his committee had seen evidence of collusion — in public reporting and the special counsel’s indictments. “Mr. Giuliani would be wise to do something he has rarely done, and that is wait till we see the facts,” Mr. Schiff said. Chris Cameron contributed reporting. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.   

Supported by By Nicholas Fandos WASHINGTON — Top House Democrats, anxiously awaiting the findings of the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, insisted on Sunday that their own investigations must go on regardless of whether the Justice Department accuses President Trump of wrongdoing. Expecting the “principal conclusions” of Mr. Mueller’s 22-month investigation to be made public by Attorney General William P. Barr as soon as Sunday afternoon but lacking any information on its findings, they sought to play down Mr. Mueller’s investigation into Russia’s election interference and possible ties to the Trump campaign as a relatively narrow endeavor that does not relieve Congress of its own oversight responsibility. “The job of Congress is much broader than the job of special counsel,” Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, the House Judiciary Committee chairman, said on “Fox News Sunday.” “The special counsel was looking and can only look for crimes. We have to protect the rule of law. We have to look for abuses of power. We have to look for obstruction of justice. We have to look for corruption.” Mr. Nadler said that Congress must see Mr. Mueller’s full report and evidence — not just a summary from Mr. Barr — and that he would use a subpoena and take the fight to the Supreme Court if necessary to secure those. Mr. Nadler, whose committee would oversee a potential impeachment of the president, said it was “way too early” to discuss such impeachment. Republicans, meanwhile, were eager to portray Democrats as already disappointed by the mystery report and poised to overreach their authority in a desperate effort to damage Mr. Trump politically. Citing a Justice Department comment that there would be no additional indictments from the special counsel, Representative Doug Collins of Georgia, Mr. Nadler’s Republican counterpart on the Judiciary Committee, said it was increasingly apparent that the president had been “proved right.” “Let’s be honest with the facts and say probably what the facts show is there was no collusion,” Mr. Collins said on Fox. “Let’s go to the logical choice, that nothing happened.” Mr. Collins also threw cold water on Democrats’ demands for Mr. Mueller’s evidence, saying it was “not the Department of Justice’s job” to turn over material, especially classified and grand jury information, “to go off on a purely partisan investigation to lead toward impeachment.” It was a marked turnabout from Republicans’ position when they were in charge and demanding access to documents for their investigations of F.B.I. and Justice Department conduct. Other Republicans took different tracks. Representative Devin Nunes of California, the top Republican on the Intelligence Committee and one of the leading critics of the Mueller investigation, said whatever had been filed was a “partisan document.” “We can just burn it up,” he said on “Fox and Friends.” He called instead for continued investigation of the F.B.I.’s surveillance of a former Trump campaign aide, Carter Page, and its handling of an unverified dossier assembled by a former British spy laying out a purported conspiracy between Trump associates and Russia. Neither side, to be clear, is in a position to know. Mr. Mueller delivered his full report to Mr. Barr on Friday and its contents have been shared only with a small group of top officials at the Justice Department who spent Friday night, Saturday and early Sunday scouring it to produce a document to share with Congress. Hogan Gidley, a White House spokesman, said that as of Sunday morning, the president’s team had not been briefed on the report. Mr. Trump, spending the weekend at his Palm Beach, Fla., club, on Sunday continued to keep an uncharacteristic silence over the investigation’s conclusion. Tweeting for the first time since Mr. Mueller handed in his report Friday, Mr. Trump told his 59 million followers, “Good Morning, Have A Great Day!” Mr. Mueller himself was spotted attending Sunday services at St. John’s Church just steps from the White House. Rumors have blossomed in the information vacuum, and critics and defenders of the president have increasingly traded shots over what they think the report will say. In a tweet on Saturday, Rudolph W. Giuliani, Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer, asked Representative Adam B. Schiff of California, the chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, to apologize for saying there was public evidence of collusion between Mr. Trump’s team and Russia. “I hope he will apologize for his mistake,” Mr. Giuliani wrote. “We all make them. The real virtue is to admit it. It would help us heal.” But Mr. Schiff, appearing on ABC’s “This Week,” was prepared to make no such recompense. Instead, he said his committee had seen evidence of collusion — in public reporting and the special counsel’s indictments. “Mr. Giuliani would be wise to do something he has rarely done, and that is wait till we see the facts,” Mr. Schiff said. Chris Cameron contributed reporting. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.   Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — Rep. Ilhan Omar says she's faced increased death threats since President Donald Trump spread around a video that purports to show her being dismissive of the 2001 terrorist attacks. "This is endangering lives," she said, accusing Trump of fomenting right-wing extremism. "It has to stop." Her statement late Sunday followed an announcement by House Speaker Nancy Pelosi that she has taken steps to ensure the safety of the Minnesota Democrat and the speaker's call for Trump to take down the video. Soon after Pelosi's statement, the video disappeared as a pinned tweet at the top of Trump's Twitter feed, but it was not deleted. Pelosi was among Democrats who had criticized Trump over the tweet, with some accusing him of trying to incite violence against the Muslim lawmaker. An upstate New York man recently was charged with making death threats against her. White House press secretary Sarah Sanders defended Trump earlier Sunday, saying the president has a duty to highlight Omar's history of making comments that others deem anti-Semitic or otherwise offensive and that he wished no "ill will" upon the first-term lawmaker. But Omar said that since Trump retweeted the video Friday night, she's received many threats on her life that referred or replied to the posted video. "Violent crimes and other acts of hate by right-wing extremists and white nationalists are on the rise in this country and around the world," she said. "We can no longer ignore that they are being encouraged by the occupant of the highest office in the land." She said: "We are all Americans." Earlier, Pelosi issued a statement while traveling in London saying she had spoken with congressional authorities "to ensure that Capitol Police are conducting a security assessment to safeguard Congresswoman Omar, her family and her staff." Pelosi said officials will continue to monitor and assess threats against Omar, and called on Trump to discourage such behavior. "The President's words weigh a ton, and his hateful and inflammatory rhetoric creates real danger," Pelosi said. "President Trump must take down his disrespectful and dangerous video." The video in Trump's tweet included a snippet from a recent speech Omar gave to the Council on American-Islamic Relations, in which she described the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attack on the World Trade Center as "some people did something," along with news footage of the hijacked airplanes hitting the Twin Towers. Trump captioned his tweet with: "WE WILL NEVER FORGET!" Critics accuse Omar of being flippant in describing the perpetrators of the attacks that killed nearly 3,000 people. She later sought to defend herself by tweeting a quote from President George W. Bush, in which the Republican president referred to the attackers as "people" just days after 9/11. Neither Trump's tweet nor the video included Omar's full quote or the context of her comments, which were about Muslims feeling that their civil liberties had eroded after the attacks. The tweet was posted atop Trump's Twitter feed for much of Sunday, with more than 9 million views. It remained lower in the feed after Pelosi requested that the video be pulled. Sanders questioned why Democrats weren't following Trump's example and calling out Omar, too. Democrats who criticized the president over the tweet defended Omar, with some noting their past disagreements with her. "Certainly the president is wishing no ill will and certainly not violence towards anyone, but the president is absolutely and should be calling out the congresswoman for her — not only one time — but history of anti-Semitic comments," Sanders said. "The bigger question is why aren't Democrats doing the same thing? It's absolutely abhorrent the comments that she continues to make and has made and they look the other way." Omar repeatedly has pushed fellow Democrats into uncomfortable territory with comments about Israel and the strength of the Jewish state's influence in Washington. She apologized for suggesting that lawmakers support Israel for pay and said she isn't criticizing Jews. But she refused to take back a tweet in which she suggested American supporters of Israel "pledge allegiance" to a foreign country. Rep. Jerry Nadler, a New York Democrat who represents Manhattan's financial district, which was targeted on 9/11, said he had no issues with Omar's characterization of the attack. "I have had some problems with some of her other remarks, but not — but not with that one," he said. Sanders commented on "Fox News Sunday" and ABC's "This Week." Nadler appeared on CNN's "State of the Union. ___

Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — Rep. Ilhan Omar says she's faced increased death threats since President Donald Trump spread around a video that purports to show her being dismissive of the 2001 terrorist attacks. "This is endangering lives," she said, accusing Trump of fomenting right-wing extremism. "It has to stop." Her statement late Sunday followed an announcement by House Speaker Nancy Pelosi that she has taken steps to ensure the safety of the Minnesota Democrat and the speaker's call for Trump to take down the video. Soon after Pelosi's statement, the video disappeared as a pinned tweet at the top of Trump's Twitter feed, but it was not deleted. Pelosi was among Democrats who had criticized Trump over the tweet, with some accusing him of trying to incite violence against the Muslim lawmaker. An upstate New York man recently was charged with making death threats against her. White House press secretary Sarah Sanders defended Trump earlier Sunday, saying the president has a duty to highlight Omar's history of making comments that others deem anti-Semitic or otherwise offensive and that he wished no "ill will" upon the first-term lawmaker. But Omar said that since Trump retweeted the video Friday night, she's received many threats on her life that referred or replied to the posted video. "Violent crimes and other acts of hate by right-wing extremists and white nationalists are on the rise in this country and around the world," she said. "We can no longer ignore that they are being encouraged by the occupant of the highest office in the land." She said: "We are all Americans." Earlier, Pelosi issued a statement while traveling in London saying she had spoken with congressional authorities "to ensure that Capitol Police are conducting a security assessment to safeguard Congresswoman Omar, her family and her staff." Pelosi said officials will continue to monitor and assess threats against Omar, and called on Trump to discourage such behavior. "The President's words weigh a ton, and his hateful and inflammatory rhetoric creates real danger," Pelosi said. "President Trump must take down his disrespectful and dangerous video." The video in Trump's tweet included a snippet from a recent speech Omar gave to the Council on American-Islamic Relations, in which she described the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attack on the World Trade Center as "some people did something," along with news footage of the hijacked airplanes hitting the Twin Towers. Trump captioned his tweet with: "WE WILL NEVER FORGET!" Critics accuse Omar of being flippant in describing the perpetrators of the attacks that killed nearly 3,000 people. She later sought to defend herself by tweeting a quote from President George W. Bush, in which the Republican president referred to the attackers as "people" just days after 9/11. Neither Trump's tweet nor the video included Omar's full quote or the context of her comments, which were about Muslims feeling that their civil liberties had eroded after the attacks. The tweet was posted atop Trump's Twitter feed for much of Sunday, with more than 9 million views. It remained lower in the feed after Pelosi requested that the video be pulled. Sanders questioned why Democrats weren't following Trump's example and calling out Omar, too. Democrats who criticized the president over the tweet defended Omar, with some noting their past disagreements with her. "Certainly the president is wishing no ill will and certainly not violence towards anyone, but the president is absolutely and should be calling out the congresswoman for her — not only one time — but history of anti-Semitic comments," Sanders said. "The bigger question is why aren't Democrats doing the same thing? It's absolutely abhorrent the comments that she continues to make and has made and they look the other way." Omar repeatedly has pushed fellow Democrats into uncomfortable territory with comments about Israel and the strength of the Jewish state's influence in Washington. She apologized for suggesting that lawmakers support Israel for pay and said she isn't criticizing Jews. But she refused to take back a tweet in which she suggested American supporters of Israel "pledge allegiance" to a foreign country. Rep. Jerry Nadler, a New York Democrat who represents Manhattan's financial district, which was targeted on 9/11, said he had no issues with Omar's characterization of the attack. "I have had some problems with some of her other remarks, but not — but not with that one," he said. Sanders commented on "Fox News Sunday" and ABC's "This Week." Nadler appeared on CNN's "State of the Union. ___Supported by By Chris Stanford and Inyoung Kang (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good morning, We start today with a historic trade deficit for the U.S., a shift for Facebook and a look at the last Blockbuster video store. The U.S. imported a record amount of products last year, widening its trade deficit in goods to its highest level in history, the Commerce Department said on Wednesday.  The trade deficit is the difference between how much a country sells to trading partners and how much it buys. President Trump has focused on narrowing that gap, which he considers a measure of whether other countries are taking advantage of the U.S. Few economists share that view. The details: The increase was driven by a global economic slowdown and the relative strength of the dollar. It was exacerbated by Mr. Trump’s $1.5 trillion tax cut, which left Americans more money to buy imported goods. After a wave of scandals, the world’s largest social network will prioritize private, encrypted communication in small groups, a sharp turn from the sort of public sharing it was built on. “I believe a privacy-focused communications platform will become even more important than today’s open platforms,” Facebook’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, said in a blog post. What’s next: Mr. Zuckerberg was vague on many details of the shift, including how long it would take, but he said it would partly be achieved by integrating Instagram, WhatsApp and Messenger, which historically have been operated autonomously. After an internal backlash, the party’s leaders in the House have postponed a vote on a resolution condemning anti-Semitism, which was widely seen as a response to an anti-Israel remark from Representative Ilhan Omar. The controversy has largely overshadowed Democrats’ legislative efforts in the past month, although the House is planning to vote this week on the For the People Act, a collection of anticorruption proposals. Here’s a look at what’s in the bill.  Yesterday: The Democratic National Committee barred Fox News from hosting or televising debates for the party’s 2020 primary, citing the network’s “inappropriate relationship” with President Trump. Related: The pieces for Joe Biden’s presidential campaign are falling into place, and could make him a clear front-runner for the 2020 Democratic nomination. The only thing missing? Mr. Biden’s decision to run.  As fertility rates across the U.S. decline, some of the largest drops have been among Hispanics. The birthrate for Hispanic women fell 31 percent from 2007 to 2017. The decline has been driven in part, demographers say, by generational differences. Hispanic women born in the U.S. are less likely to be poor and more likely to be educated than their immigrant mothers or grandmothers, according to the Pew Research Center. Many are delaying childbearing to finish school and start careers, just like other American-born women. Voices: “One thing my parents instilled in me was to get an education, don’t get married and have kids right away,” said Mayra Ramirez, 29, of Franklinton, N.C. Fifteen years ago, there were 9,000 Blockbuster video rental stores. After today, there will be just one. One of our business reporters examines how that store, in Bend, Ore., has survived the changes that have reshaped how people watch movies at home.  Huawei sues U.S.: The Chinese electronics giant sued the federal government on Wednesday, arguing that it had been unfairly and incorrectly banned as a security threat. More Michael Cohen documents: President Trump’s former lawyer has provided new information to Congress in an effort to back up his claims that Mr. Trump’s lawyers helped alter a false statement Mr. Cohen gave to lawmakers in 2017. Lawmaker’s rape allegation: Senator Martha McSally, Republican of Arizona and the first woman in the Air Force to fly in combat, has testified in Congress that she was raped by a superior officer.  Clash over border security: During a hearing in the House, Kirstjen Nielsen, the Homeland Security secretary, faced criticism of the Trump administration’s treatment of migrant families at the border and its claims of a national emergency. Financial deregulation: Federal regulators have moved to ease oversight of large banks and other financial firms, continuing a push by the Trump administration to reverse rules put in place after the 2008 financial crisis. Celebrity chef exits: Mario Batali, facing accusations of sexual misconduct, has been bought out by his restaurant partners. Tesla’s new strategy: The electric-car maker’s shift to online-only sales, after a push to open dealerships, has raised questions about its outlook.  Snapshot: Above, LeBron James of the Los Angeles Lakers on Wednesday, when he passed Michael Jordan to become No. 4 on the list of the N.B.A.’s leading scorers. James, who wears No. 23 because of Jordan, has 32,311 points in his career. Artifact is recovered: Acting on a tip, the police in Ireland have recovered a mummified head believed to belong to an 800-year-old Crusader knight that was stolen from a medieval church crypt. Late-night comedy: “With all the terrible things going on right now, this year for Lent I’m not giving up anything,” Jimmy Kimmel said. “I’m just giving up, in general.”  What we’re reading: This article in The New Yorker. Steven Erlanger, the chief diplomatic correspondent for Europe, writes: “If you think Fox News is ‘fair and balanced,’ Jane Mayer's reporting on the organization’s handling of President Trump will have you think again.” Cook: Match sweet, tangy citrus with peanuts and avocado for a satisfying salad. Listen: “Jerrod,” an invitation to a timid lover from Solange’s new album, “When I Get Home,” has an insistent, syncopated pulse, writes Jon Pareles. Go: The fourth wall breaks in “Suicide Forest,” a play about Japanese-American identity, revealing something so heart-stingingly tender that the whole work shifts. It’s being performed at the Bushwick Starr in Brooklyn. Read: The writer and illustrator Lucy Knisley explores fertility and complications during pregnancy in her memoir “Kid Gloves,”  new this week on our paperback nonfiction best-seller list. Smarter Living: March is Women’s History Month, all the more reason to look at travel tours led by and for women. Travel agents have seen a big uptick in interest since the start of the #MeToo movement, and the participants may be able to bond over stories of struggle and passion. We’ve highlighted four. Also, if your office has free snacks, we’ve collected some wide-ranging examples of how your peers are turning them into meals. If you’re about to open a can of something tasty, thank the French. In the late 1700s, Napoleon was on the move, invading Italy, Austria and Egypt. Feeding his enormous armies was a problem — he needed a way to keep food from spoiling. A confectioner, Nicolas Appert, spent years coming up with a successful process. He placed fruits, vegetables and meats in glass bottles, corked and wired them, then boiled the bottles for hours. He didn’t know he was killing microbes — he just knew that the more heat and less air, the better. By 1810, Napoleon’s government handed him a 12,000-franc prize and required him to publish a book, with the catchy title “The Art of Preserving Animal and Vegetable Substances for Many Years.” Glass, unfortunately, breaks. It was the British who developed the tin can. We end today on a somber note: Alex Trebek, the longtime host of “Jeopardy!”, announced on Wednesday that he has Stage IV pancreatic cancer. “I’m going to fight this,” Mr. Trebek, 78, said. “And I’m going to keep working.” That’s it for this briefing. See you next time. — Chris and Inyoung Thank youTo Eleanor Stanford, Chris Harcum and Mark Josephson for the break from the news. James K. Williamson put together Smarter Living and also wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com. P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is about the Green New Deal.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: “Notorious” nickname on the Supreme Court (3 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • NYT Cooking, a subscription service of The New York Times, has a guide to making and canning jam (in glass jars).  Chris Stanford is based in London and writes the U.S. version of the Morning Briefing. He also compiles a weekly news quiz. He was previously a producer for the desktop home page and mobile site, helping to present The New York Times’s news report to readers. Before joining The Times in 2013, he was an editor and designer at The Washington Post and other news organizations.  @stanfordc  Inyoung Kang is an editor and producer based in London.  @inyoungk 

Supported by By Chris Stanford and Inyoung Kang (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good morning, We start today with a historic trade deficit for the U.S., a shift for Facebook and a look at the last Blockbuster video store. The U.S. imported a record amount of products last year, widening its trade deficit in goods to its highest level in history, the Commerce Department said on Wednesday.  The trade deficit is the difference between how much a country sells to trading partners and how much it buys. President Trump has focused on narrowing that gap, which he considers a measure of whether other countries are taking advantage of the U.S. Few economists share that view. The details: The increase was driven by a global economic slowdown and the relative strength of the dollar. It was exacerbated by Mr. Trump’s $1.5 trillion tax cut, which left Americans more money to buy imported goods. After a wave of scandals, the world’s largest social network will prioritize private, encrypted communication in small groups, a sharp turn from the sort of public sharing it was built on. “I believe a privacy-focused communications platform will become even more important than today’s open platforms,” Facebook’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, said in a blog post. What’s next: Mr. Zuckerberg was vague on many details of the shift, including how long it would take, but he said it would partly be achieved by integrating Instagram, WhatsApp and Messenger, which historically have been operated autonomously. After an internal backlash, the party’s leaders in the House have postponed a vote on a resolution condemning anti-Semitism, which was widely seen as a response to an anti-Israel remark from Representative Ilhan Omar. The controversy has largely overshadowed Democrats’ legislative efforts in the past month, although the House is planning to vote this week on the For the People Act, a collection of anticorruption proposals. Here’s a look at what’s in the bill.  Yesterday: The Democratic National Committee barred Fox News from hosting or televising debates for the party’s 2020 primary, citing the network’s “inappropriate relationship” with President Trump. Related: The pieces for Joe Biden’s presidential campaign are falling into place, and could make him a clear front-runner for the 2020 Democratic nomination. The only thing missing? Mr. Biden’s decision to run.  As fertility rates across the U.S. decline, some of the largest drops have been among Hispanics. The birthrate for Hispanic women fell 31 percent from 2007 to 2017. The decline has been driven in part, demographers say, by generational differences. Hispanic women born in the U.S. are less likely to be poor and more likely to be educated than their immigrant mothers or grandmothers, according to the Pew Research Center. Many are delaying childbearing to finish school and start careers, just like other American-born women. Voices: “One thing my parents instilled in me was to get an education, don’t get married and have kids right away,” said Mayra Ramirez, 29, of Franklinton, N.C. Fifteen years ago, there were 9,000 Blockbuster video rental stores. After today, there will be just one. One of our business reporters examines how that store, in Bend, Ore., has survived the changes that have reshaped how people watch movies at home.  Huawei sues U.S.: The Chinese electronics giant sued the federal government on Wednesday, arguing that it had been unfairly and incorrectly banned as a security threat. More Michael Cohen documents: President Trump’s former lawyer has provided new information to Congress in an effort to back up his claims that Mr. Trump’s lawyers helped alter a false statement Mr. Cohen gave to lawmakers in 2017. Lawmaker’s rape allegation: Senator Martha McSally, Republican of Arizona and the first woman in the Air Force to fly in combat, has testified in Congress that she was raped by a superior officer.  Clash over border security: During a hearing in the House, Kirstjen Nielsen, the Homeland Security secretary, faced criticism of the Trump administration’s treatment of migrant families at the border and its claims of a national emergency. Financial deregulation: Federal regulators have moved to ease oversight of large banks and other financial firms, continuing a push by the Trump administration to reverse rules put in place after the 2008 financial crisis. Celebrity chef exits: Mario Batali, facing accusations of sexual misconduct, has been bought out by his restaurant partners. Tesla’s new strategy: The electric-car maker’s shift to online-only sales, after a push to open dealerships, has raised questions about its outlook.  Snapshot: Above, LeBron James of the Los Angeles Lakers on Wednesday, when he passed Michael Jordan to become No. 4 on the list of the N.B.A.’s leading scorers. James, who wears No. 23 because of Jordan, has 32,311 points in his career. Artifact is recovered: Acting on a tip, the police in Ireland have recovered a mummified head believed to belong to an 800-year-old Crusader knight that was stolen from a medieval church crypt. Late-night comedy: “With all the terrible things going on right now, this year for Lent I’m not giving up anything,” Jimmy Kimmel said. “I’m just giving up, in general.”  What we’re reading: This article in The New Yorker. Steven Erlanger, the chief diplomatic correspondent for Europe, writes: “If you think Fox News is ‘fair and balanced,’ Jane Mayer's reporting on the organization’s handling of President Trump will have you think again.” Cook: Match sweet, tangy citrus with peanuts and avocado for a satisfying salad. Listen: “Jerrod,” an invitation to a timid lover from Solange’s new album, “When I Get Home,” has an insistent, syncopated pulse, writes Jon Pareles. Go: The fourth wall breaks in “Suicide Forest,” a play about Japanese-American identity, revealing something so heart-stingingly tender that the whole work shifts. It’s being performed at the Bushwick Starr in Brooklyn. Read: The writer and illustrator Lucy Knisley explores fertility and complications during pregnancy in her memoir “Kid Gloves,”  new this week on our paperback nonfiction best-seller list. Smarter Living: March is Women’s History Month, all the more reason to look at travel tours led by and for women. Travel agents have seen a big uptick in interest since the start of the #MeToo movement, and the participants may be able to bond over stories of struggle and passion. We’ve highlighted four. Also, if your office has free snacks, we’ve collected some wide-ranging examples of how your peers are turning them into meals. If you’re about to open a can of something tasty, thank the French. In the late 1700s, Napoleon was on the move, invading Italy, Austria and Egypt. Feeding his enormous armies was a problem — he needed a way to keep food from spoiling. A confectioner, Nicolas Appert, spent years coming up with a successful process. He placed fruits, vegetables and meats in glass bottles, corked and wired them, then boiled the bottles for hours. He didn’t know he was killing microbes — he just knew that the more heat and less air, the better. By 1810, Napoleon’s government handed him a 12,000-franc prize and required him to publish a book, with the catchy title “The Art of Preserving Animal and Vegetable Substances for Many Years.” Glass, unfortunately, breaks. It was the British who developed the tin can. We end today on a somber note: Alex Trebek, the longtime host of “Jeopardy!”, announced on Wednesday that he has Stage IV pancreatic cancer. “I’m going to fight this,” Mr. Trebek, 78, said. “And I’m going to keep working.” That’s it for this briefing. See you next time. — Chris and Inyoung Thank youTo Eleanor Stanford, Chris Harcum and Mark Josephson for the break from the news. James K. Williamson put together Smarter Living and also wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com. P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is about the Green New Deal.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: “Notorious” nickname on the Supreme Court (3 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • NYT Cooking, a subscription service of The New York Times, has a guide to making and canning jam (in glass jars).  Chris Stanford is based in London and writes the U.S. version of the Morning Briefing. He also compiles a weekly news quiz. He was previously a producer for the desktop home page and mobile site, helping to present The New York Times’s news report to readers. Before joining The Times in 2013, he was an editor and designer at The Washington Post and other news organizations.  @stanfordc  Inyoung Kang is an editor and producer based in London.  @inyoungk Supported by letters Readers discuss whether his fellow Republicans will turn against the president if he is impeached.  To the Editor: Re “The Inevitability of Impeachment,” by Elizabeth Drew (Op-Ed, Dec. 29): I have always admired Ms. Drew for her political acumen in writing about Washington. However, in suggesting that congressional Republicans might act to help remove President Trump from office, Ms. Drew is allowing hope to overcome reality. Aside from occasional rebukes to the president, congressional Republicans have resolutely refused to criticize him for his lying, for his denigration of anyone who disagrees with him, and for his policies, which have isolated this country from its allies. So to expect these Republicans to suddenly help usher President Trump out of office is to expect them to demonstrate some spine and concern for the well-being of the country — something they have thus far refused to do. Dorian BowmanCambridge, Mass. To the Editor: Thank you, Elizabeth Drew, for a glimmer of hope regarding impeachment. For the first time I feel there is hope that enough Republicans will finally do their job and put the country ahead of party. Their power is now diminished, President Trump’s behavior continues to be erratic and his lack of leadership before the world will finally force them to seek self-preservation. The pardoning of Richard Nixon sent the message to people like Mr. Trump that they are above the law. That act contributed to the mess we are in now. Walter L. LaManceMonroe, Ohio To the Editor: For those of us who are frightened by President Trump’s seemingly irrational and harmful decisions, which go against the advice of experts and are not discussed with the underlings nominally in charge, the thought of impeachment is natural. The problem with Mr. Trump is that he is still in campaign mode and has never started to govern seriously. Governing requires immersing oneself in reading intelligence reports, serious discussions with the experts whom presidents have relied on in the past, learning broadly beyond what Fox News and Sean Hannity consider important. It would help if the president relished reading and intelligent discussion. But our president is too busy campaigning to waste time on thinking. Superficial thinking suffices for the gut thinker, whose quick decisions are impulses subject to quick change. All around Mr. Trump, venerable institutions are belittled and have become the enemy — the news media, the F.B.I. and the whole intelligence apparatus.  Ah, the contemplation of the probably unattainable impeachment and conviction. Simon RaskinSpring Valley, N.Y. To the Editor: Elizabeth Drew rejects the “conventional view” and posits that the Senate might muster 67 votes to convict President Trump, if a Democratic House impeaches him. In so doing, Ms. Drew assumes that the Senate would hold a trial if the House referred articles of impeachment to it. Anyone paying attention over the last two years knows full well that the majority leader, Mitch McConnell, might have other ideas. Just ask Judge Merrick Garland. Bill SchrierMarina, Calif.The writer is a lawyer and a high school government and politics teacher.

Supported by letters Readers discuss whether his fellow Republicans will turn against the president if he is impeached.  To the Editor: Re “The Inevitability of Impeachment,” by Elizabeth Drew (Op-Ed, Dec. 29): I have always admired Ms. Drew for her political acumen in writing about Washington. However, in suggesting that congressional Republicans might act to help remove President Trump from office, Ms. Drew is allowing hope to overcome reality. Aside from occasional rebukes to the president, congressional Republicans have resolutely refused to criticize him for his lying, for his denigration of anyone who disagrees with him, and for his policies, which have isolated this country from its allies. So to expect these Republicans to suddenly help usher President Trump out of office is to expect them to demonstrate some spine and concern for the well-being of the country — something they have thus far refused to do. Dorian BowmanCambridge, Mass. To the Editor: Thank you, Elizabeth Drew, for a glimmer of hope regarding impeachment. For the first time I feel there is hope that enough Republicans will finally do their job and put the country ahead of party. Their power is now diminished, President Trump’s behavior continues to be erratic and his lack of leadership before the world will finally force them to seek self-preservation. The pardoning of Richard Nixon sent the message to people like Mr. Trump that they are above the law. That act contributed to the mess we are in now. Walter L. LaManceMonroe, Ohio To the Editor: For those of us who are frightened by President Trump’s seemingly irrational and harmful decisions, which go against the advice of experts and are not discussed with the underlings nominally in charge, the thought of impeachment is natural. The problem with Mr. Trump is that he is still in campaign mode and has never started to govern seriously. Governing requires immersing oneself in reading intelligence reports, serious discussions with the experts whom presidents have relied on in the past, learning broadly beyond what Fox News and Sean Hannity consider important. It would help if the president relished reading and intelligent discussion. But our president is too busy campaigning to waste time on thinking. Superficial thinking suffices for the gut thinker, whose quick decisions are impulses subject to quick change. All around Mr. Trump, venerable institutions are belittled and have become the enemy — the news media, the F.B.I. and the whole intelligence apparatus.  Ah, the contemplation of the probably unattainable impeachment and conviction. Simon RaskinSpring Valley, N.Y. To the Editor: Elizabeth Drew rejects the “conventional view” and posits that the Senate might muster 67 votes to convict President Trump, if a Democratic House impeaches him. In so doing, Ms. Drew assumes that the Senate would hold a trial if the House referred articles of impeachment to it. Anyone paying attention over the last two years knows full well that the majority leader, Mitch McConnell, might have other ideas. Just ask Judge Merrick Garland. Bill SchrierMarina, Calif.The writer is a lawyer and a high school government and politics teacher.Supported by By Dave Itzkoff “Saturday Night Live” once again dipped into its deep reserve of celebrity guest stars to portray the various members and associates of President Trump’s administration, this time turning to Steve Martin, who played Roger J. Stone Jr., the longtime Trump adviser who was arrested on Friday after having been indicted by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III. The opening sketch of this week’s episode, hosted by James McAvoy and featuring the musical guest Meek Mill, was a parody of the Fox News program “Tucker Carlson Tonight.” Carlson was played by the “S.N.L.” cast member Alex Moffat, who explained, “I’m like if those shorts with the little whales on them came to life.” Moffat introduced his top story: “President Trump’s heroic end to the shutdown,” he said. “It did take him 35 days, but he was finally able to get no wall.” Interviewing another Fox News personality, Jeanine Pirro (Cecily Strong), Moffat said, “I’m going to smugly ask a question that I already know the answer to, and a warning to our viewers, my voice will get very high.” Describing her stance on immigration, Strong said, “We have to take a Marie Kondo approach to cleaning up this country. If something doesn’t spark joy, throw it out. And you know what doesn’t spark joy in me? Guatemalans.” Moffat also interviewed Wilbur Ross (Kate McKinnon), the commerce secretary, who earlier this week said he didn’t understand why furloughed government workers needed food assistance because they could just take out low-interest loans instead. An apologetic McKinnon said, “That was silly of me. I simply meant that there are other ways of getting money. Like, they could’ve liquidated some of their stocks or sold one of their paintings. I mean, even if they sold a lesser Picasso, that’s still going to get you through a week or two of yacht maintenance.” She added, “All I meant was that we all have to make sacrifices in times of hardship. For example, instead of going out to dinner, you could open a restaurant in your house. Or, for a period of time, you could have your horses attend public school. The small things add up.” Finally, Moffat brought out his last guest — “a man you look at and instantly think, I trust this guy” — Roger Stone, played by Martin in a pinstripe suit and his voice projected at maximum volume. “What a fun couple of days,” Martin proclaimed. “I’m loving the ride. Go Nixon!” Asking for pity from Carlson’s viewers, Martin said, “I’m just a poor, helpless old man. I’m 66. I’m almost as old as Sting.” Speaking of his early-morning arrest, he said, “The whole experience was so harrowing that afterwards I could only manage one radio interview. And a speech from the steps of the courthouse. And two appearances on television. It’s horrible!” Then at the close of the sketch, Martin tweaked one of his best-known “S.N.L.” catchphrases: “Hey, I’m just a normal and straightforward guy,” he said. Weekend Update Jokes of the Week At the “Weekend Update” desk, the anchors Colin Jost and Michael Che continued to riff on President Trump’s agreement to reopen the federal government for three weeks. Jost: President Trump on Friday announced a deal to temporarily reopen the government for three weeks, while negotiations continue over border security. Three weeks. We’re basically treating our government like it’s a trial period for a Hulu subscription. It’s pretty clear that Trump has not figured out how to deal with Nancy Pelosi yet. Usually when a woman is giving him this much trouble, he just gives her 130 grand to shut up. During his speech from the Rose Garden ending the shutdown, Trump said this: [Video of President Trump saying, “We do not need 2,000 miles of concrete wall from sea to shiny sea. We never did.”] Shiny sea? Also, remember when you said this? [Video of President Trump saying, “We’re going to build a wall. It’s going to be a big, fat, beautiful wall.”] Now that wall sounds awesome. But tell me more about this new one. [Video of President Trump saying, “The walls we are building are not medieval walls. They are smart walls.”] Walls with brains, got it. Now, someone told me that medieval solutions were actually effective. [Video of President Trump saying, “They say a wall is medieval. Well, so is a wheel. A wheel is older than a wall.”] He’s president. But just to clarify, we are still calling it a wall, right? [Video of President Trump saying, “Barriers, fences or walls. Or whatever you want to call it.”] Honestly at this point I’d just like to call it quits. Che: On Friday, President Trump temporarily reopened the government, and I know liberals are tweeting out, “Trump caved! Trump caved!” But y’all gotta calm down. Stop gloating. You didn’t win yet. The man is still one tweet away from calling a national state of emergency and bringing back slavery. Act like he’s still crazy. You’ve got to treat him like you’re training a dog. Constant positive reinforcement. Maybe instead, every time he does something you like, tweet out, “Who’s a good boy?” They also commented on the indictment and arrest of Roger Stone. Che: Roger Stone was arrested at 6 a.m. Friday morning by a team of officers with heavy weapons. Finally. This is all I’ve been waiting for. Old white dudes getting dragged out their crib like dope dealers. Was it excessive? Yes. And I wish it was worse. I wish he was just wearing boxers and a durag and there was a baby crying and they tased his girl. Give him the works. Jost: Longtime Trump adviser and business Babadook Roger Stone has been charged by the special counsel’s office on seven counts, including obstruction, making false statements, witness tampering and, I assume, the attempted murder of Batman. Stone, pictured here as an old woman being told there’s no more room at bingo, left the courtroom to face a crowd that was booing and chanting, “Lock him up.” First of all, it’s always fun to watch a press conference on mute where the captions say, “Crowd booing.” Second, you know how much people have to hate you for them to show up just to boo you in the middle of a workday? They found out you were arrested that morning, immediately called their office like, yeah, I’m going to be late. I’ve got to head down the courthouse and yell at steampunk Lincoln. Music Video of the Week There wasn’t anything political or topical about this segment, but Leslie Jones was charming in a hip-hop tribute to Manhattan’s Upper East Side. Though she has previously lived in neighborhoods like Compton, Spanish Harlem and Bedford-Stuyvesant, Jones pledged her devotion to the U.E.S., saying, “Y’all say it’s boring, y’all say it’s homogeneous, but y’all don’t know it like I do.” Then she went on to rap: This ain’t Harlem, y’all, I got Seamless for days And a cab outside that comes right away I order what I want, y’all can’t stop me Two in the morning, bring me salmon and broccoli You think there ain’t no black folks? Son, you’re mistaken There’s nannies and nurses and a doorman who’s Jamaican

Supported by By Dave Itzkoff “Saturday Night Live” once again dipped into its deep reserve of celebrity guest stars to portray the various members and associates of President Trump’s administration, this time turning to Steve Martin, who played Roger J. Stone Jr., the longtime Trump adviser who was arrested on Friday after having been indicted by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III. The opening sketch of this week’s episode, hosted by James McAvoy and featuring the musical guest Meek Mill, was a parody of the Fox News program “Tucker Carlson Tonight.” Carlson was played by the “S.N.L.” cast member Alex Moffat, who explained, “I’m like if those shorts with the little whales on them came to life.” Moffat introduced his top story: “President Trump’s heroic end to the shutdown,” he said. “It did take him 35 days, but he was finally able to get no wall.” Interviewing another Fox News personality, Jeanine Pirro (Cecily Strong), Moffat said, “I’m going to smugly ask a question that I already know the answer to, and a warning to our viewers, my voice will get very high.” Describing her stance on immigration, Strong said, “We have to take a Marie Kondo approach to cleaning up this country. If something doesn’t spark joy, throw it out. And you know what doesn’t spark joy in me? Guatemalans.” Moffat also interviewed Wilbur Ross (Kate McKinnon), the commerce secretary, who earlier this week said he didn’t understand why furloughed government workers needed food assistance because they could just take out low-interest loans instead. An apologetic McKinnon said, “That was silly of me. I simply meant that there are other ways of getting money. Like, they could’ve liquidated some of their stocks or sold one of their paintings. I mean, even if they sold a lesser Picasso, that’s still going to get you through a week or two of yacht maintenance.” She added, “All I meant was that we all have to make sacrifices in times of hardship. For example, instead of going out to dinner, you could open a restaurant in your house. Or, for a period of time, you could have your horses attend public school. The small things add up.” Finally, Moffat brought out his last guest — “a man you look at and instantly think, I trust this guy” — Roger Stone, played by Martin in a pinstripe suit and his voice projected at maximum volume. “What a fun couple of days,” Martin proclaimed. “I’m loving the ride. Go Nixon!” Asking for pity from Carlson’s viewers, Martin said, “I’m just a poor, helpless old man. I’m 66. I’m almost as old as Sting.” Speaking of his early-morning arrest, he said, “The whole experience was so harrowing that afterwards I could only manage one radio interview. And a speech from the steps of the courthouse. And two appearances on television. It’s horrible!” Then at the close of the sketch, Martin tweaked one of his best-known “S.N.L.” catchphrases: “Hey, I’m just a normal and straightforward guy,” he said. Weekend Update Jokes of the Week At the “Weekend Update” desk, the anchors Colin Jost and Michael Che continued to riff on President Trump’s agreement to reopen the federal government for three weeks. Jost: President Trump on Friday announced a deal to temporarily reopen the government for three weeks, while negotiations continue over border security. Three weeks. We’re basically treating our government like it’s a trial period for a Hulu subscription. It’s pretty clear that Trump has not figured out how to deal with Nancy Pelosi yet. Usually when a woman is giving him this much trouble, he just gives her 130 grand to shut up. During his speech from the Rose Garden ending the shutdown, Trump said this: [Video of President Trump saying, “We do not need 2,000 miles of concrete wall from sea to shiny sea. We never did.”] Shiny sea? Also, remember when you said this? [Video of President Trump saying, “We’re going to build a wall. It’s going to be a big, fat, beautiful wall.”] Now that wall sounds awesome. But tell me more about this new one. [Video of President Trump saying, “The walls we are building are not medieval walls. They are smart walls.”] Walls with brains, got it. Now, someone told me that medieval solutions were actually effective. [Video of President Trump saying, “They say a wall is medieval. Well, so is a wheel. A wheel is older than a wall.”] He’s president. But just to clarify, we are still calling it a wall, right? [Video of President Trump saying, “Barriers, fences or walls. Or whatever you want to call it.”] Honestly at this point I’d just like to call it quits. Che: On Friday, President Trump temporarily reopened the government, and I know liberals are tweeting out, “Trump caved! Trump caved!” But y’all gotta calm down. Stop gloating. You didn’t win yet. The man is still one tweet away from calling a national state of emergency and bringing back slavery. Act like he’s still crazy. You’ve got to treat him like you’re training a dog. Constant positive reinforcement. Maybe instead, every time he does something you like, tweet out, “Who’s a good boy?” They also commented on the indictment and arrest of Roger Stone. Che: Roger Stone was arrested at 6 a.m. Friday morning by a team of officers with heavy weapons. Finally. This is all I’ve been waiting for. Old white dudes getting dragged out their crib like dope dealers. Was it excessive? Yes. And I wish it was worse. I wish he was just wearing boxers and a durag and there was a baby crying and they tased his girl. Give him the works. Jost: Longtime Trump adviser and business Babadook Roger Stone has been charged by the special counsel’s office on seven counts, including obstruction, making false statements, witness tampering and, I assume, the attempted murder of Batman. Stone, pictured here as an old woman being told there’s no more room at bingo, left the courtroom to face a crowd that was booing and chanting, “Lock him up.” First of all, it’s always fun to watch a press conference on mute where the captions say, “Crowd booing.” Second, you know how much people have to hate you for them to show up just to boo you in the middle of a workday? They found out you were arrested that morning, immediately called their office like, yeah, I’m going to be late. I’ve got to head down the courthouse and yell at steampunk Lincoln. Music Video of the Week There wasn’t anything political or topical about this segment, but Leslie Jones was charming in a hip-hop tribute to Manhattan’s Upper East Side. Though she has previously lived in neighborhoods like Compton, Spanish Harlem and Bedford-Stuyvesant, Jones pledged her devotion to the U.E.S., saying, “Y’all say it’s boring, y’all say it’s homogeneous, but y’all don’t know it like I do.” Then she went on to rap: This ain’t Harlem, y’all, I got Seamless for days And a cab outside that comes right away I order what I want, y’all can’t stop me Two in the morning, bring me salmon and broccoli You think there ain’t no black folks? Son, you’re mistaken There’s nannies and nurses and a doorman who’s JamaicanSupported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders on Monday released 10 years of his long-anticipated tax returns as he campaigns for the 2020 Democratic presidential nomination. The returns provide a more detailed look at Sanders' finances than when he ran for president in 2016. The release also confirms that Sanders' income crossed the $1 million threshold in 2016 and 2017, though he reported less earnings in his most recent return. His 2018 return reveals that he and his wife, Jane, earned more than $550,000, including $133,000 in income from his Senate salary and $391,000 in sales of his book, "Our Revolution: A Future to Believe In." Sanders' campaign said in a news release that he paid 26% effective tax rate in 2018. During his first presidential bid, Sanders released just one year of his tax returns despite primary rival Hillary Clinton pushing him to follow her lead and release multiple years of tax information. He declined to do so, disclosing only his tax return for 2014. Tax transparency has been in the spotlight as Donald Trump bucks decades of presidential tradition by declining to show voters his tax filings and House Democrats seek to force him to turn them over. During a Fox News Channel town hall on Monday, Sanders said that he'd increased his income by publishing a book — he's written two with campaign themes — and that he wouldn't apologize for that. He also challenged Trump to release his tax returns. "I guess the president watches your network a little bit, right?" Sanders said to the moderators. "Hey, President Trump. My wife and I just released 10 years. Please do the same." The filings show that Sanders, who throughout his career has called for an economy and government that works for everyone and not just the 1 percent, is among the top 1 percent of earners in the U.S. According to the liberal-leaning Economic Policy Institute. families in the U.S. earning $421,926 or more a year are part of this group. In a statement accompanying the release, Sanders said that the returns show that his family has been "fortunate," something he is grateful for after growing up in a family that lived paycheck to paycheck. "I consider paying more in taxes as my income rose to be both an obligation and an investment in our country. I will continue to fight to make our tax system more progressive so that our country has the resources to guarantee the American Dream to all people," Sanders added. Sanders, 77, has also listed Social Security payments for each year of the decade of tax returns he made available Monday. By 2018, his wife, 69, was also taking Social Security, providing the couple with nearly $52,000 for the year. Sanders' status as a millionaire, which he acknowledged last week, was cemented in his 2017 statement. That year, Sanders disclosed $1.31 million income, combined from his Senate salary and $961,000 in book royalties and sales. His higher income in two of the three most recent years could potentially prompt questions from voters about his frequent criticisms of the influence that millionaires and billionaires have over the political process. Sanders and his wife disclosed $36,300 in charitable contributions in 2017, but their return does not detail each individual contribution. That same year, the couple announced publicly that they had donated $25,000 as a grant to launch the Sanders Institute, a nonprofit educational organization aligned with the senator's political and ideological interests. Jane Sanders was a co-founder of the nonprofit, along with her son, David Driscoll, who became the institute's executive director. Sanders and his wife put the institute on hiatus last month amid criticism that the nonprofit blurred lines between family, fundraising and campaigning. Jane Sanders said the nonprofit would cease operations beginning in May "so there could not even be an appearance of impropriety." A number of Sanders' rivals for the Democratic presidential nomination — including Sens. Kirsten Gillibrand of New York, Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, Kamala Harris of California and Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota — have released tax records to varying degrees. Gillibrand was the first candidate to release her 2018 tax returns, and her campaign released a video in which she called on other candidates to join her. Warren, who has also already released her 2018 tax returns, made public 10 years of tax information last year. Harris released 15 years of tax returns over the weekend. Klobuchar released her 2018 tax return on Monday and said in a campaign video that she hoped Trump, who spent the day campaigning in Minnesota, would release his own taxes on his trip to the state. (He didn't.)

Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders on Monday released 10 years of his long-anticipated tax returns as he campaigns for the 2020 Democratic presidential nomination. The returns provide a more detailed look at Sanders' finances than when he ran for president in 2016. The release also confirms that Sanders' income crossed the $1 million threshold in 2016 and 2017, though he reported less earnings in his most recent return. His 2018 return reveals that he and his wife, Jane, earned more than $550,000, including $133,000 in income from his Senate salary and $391,000 in sales of his book, "Our Revolution: A Future to Believe In." Sanders' campaign said in a news release that he paid 26% effective tax rate in 2018. During his first presidential bid, Sanders released just one year of his tax returns despite primary rival Hillary Clinton pushing him to follow her lead and release multiple years of tax information. He declined to do so, disclosing only his tax return for 2014. Tax transparency has been in the spotlight as Donald Trump bucks decades of presidential tradition by declining to show voters his tax filings and House Democrats seek to force him to turn them over. During a Fox News Channel town hall on Monday, Sanders said that he'd increased his income by publishing a book — he's written two with campaign themes — and that he wouldn't apologize for that. He also challenged Trump to release his tax returns. "I guess the president watches your network a little bit, right?" Sanders said to the moderators. "Hey, President Trump. My wife and I just released 10 years. Please do the same." The filings show that Sanders, who throughout his career has called for an economy and government that works for everyone and not just the 1 percent, is among the top 1 percent of earners in the U.S. According to the liberal-leaning Economic Policy Institute. families in the U.S. earning $421,926 or more a year are part of this group. In a statement accompanying the release, Sanders said that the returns show that his family has been "fortunate," something he is grateful for after growing up in a family that lived paycheck to paycheck. "I consider paying more in taxes as my income rose to be both an obligation and an investment in our country. I will continue to fight to make our tax system more progressive so that our country has the resources to guarantee the American Dream to all people," Sanders added. Sanders, 77, has also listed Social Security payments for each year of the decade of tax returns he made available Monday. By 2018, his wife, 69, was also taking Social Security, providing the couple with nearly $52,000 for the year. Sanders' status as a millionaire, which he acknowledged last week, was cemented in his 2017 statement. That year, Sanders disclosed $1.31 million income, combined from his Senate salary and $961,000 in book royalties and sales. His higher income in two of the three most recent years could potentially prompt questions from voters about his frequent criticisms of the influence that millionaires and billionaires have over the political process. Sanders and his wife disclosed $36,300 in charitable contributions in 2017, but their return does not detail each individual contribution. That same year, the couple announced publicly that they had donated $25,000 as a grant to launch the Sanders Institute, a nonprofit educational organization aligned with the senator's political and ideological interests. Jane Sanders was a co-founder of the nonprofit, along with her son, David Driscoll, who became the institute's executive director. Sanders and his wife put the institute on hiatus last month amid criticism that the nonprofit blurred lines between family, fundraising and campaigning. Jane Sanders said the nonprofit would cease operations beginning in May "so there could not even be an appearance of impropriety." A number of Sanders' rivals for the Democratic presidential nomination — including Sens. Kirsten Gillibrand of New York, Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, Kamala Harris of California and Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota — have released tax records to varying degrees. Gillibrand was the first candidate to release her 2018 tax returns, and her campaign released a video in which she called on other candidates to join her. Warren, who has also already released her 2018 tax returns, made public 10 years of tax information last year. Harris released 15 years of tax returns over the weekend. Klobuchar released her 2018 tax return on Monday and said in a campaign video that she hoped Trump, who spent the day campaigning in Minnesota, would release his own taxes on his trip to the state. (He didn't.)Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump isn't backing down from his tweets about Democratic Rep. Ilhan Omar, one of the first Muslim women to serve in Congress. In fact, he spoke at an event in Omar's home state of Minnesota on Monday amid a ferocious fight over her comments about the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. Omar, a Somali-American, says it's more than a rhetorical squabble, and that lives, including hers, are at stake. Trump says national security is at issue and Omar is "ungrateful." A look at the latest rhetorical battle between the pair that's more broadly about race and whether leaders and their words should be blamed for violence. ___ THE AFTERSHOCKS Omar says she's faced increased death threats since Trump spread around a video that purports to show her being dismissive of the 2001 terrorist attacks. "This is endangering lives," she said, accusing Trump of fomenting extremism. "It has to stop." Her statement late Sunday followed an announcement by House Speaker Nancy Pelosi that she has taken steps to ensure the safety of the Minnesota Democrat. Pelosi also urged Trump to take down the video. The video soon disappeared as a pinned tweet at the top of Trump's Twitter feed, but it was not deleted. Trump further escalated his rhetoric Monday morning, tweeting that, "Before Nancy, who has lost all control of Congress and is getting nothing done, decides to defend her leader, Rep. Omar, she should look at the anti-Semitic, anti-Israel and ungrateful U.S. HATE statements Omar has made." Later Monday, Trump announced he was heading to "the Great State of Minnesota!" Omar responded by retweeting that post with the comment, "The Great State of Minnesota, where we don't only welcome immigrants, we send them to Washington." Minnesota has the largest concentration of Somalis in the nation, and most of those are in the Minneapolis area. On Monday at the London School of Economics and Political Science, Pelosi said: "I don't think any president of the United States should use the tragedy of 9/11 as a political tool. I think that is wrong, I think it's beneath the dignity of the office." ___ WHAT OMAR SAID Omar told a Los Angeles gathering of the Council on American-Islamic Relations on March 23 that many Muslims saw their civil liberties eroded after the Sept. 11 attacks. "For far too long we have lived with the discomfort of being a second-class citizen and, frankly, I'm tired of it, and every single Muslim in this country should be tired of it," she said in the speech, according to video posted online. "CAIR was founded after 9/11, because they recognized that some people did something and that all of us were starting to lose access to our civil liberties." CAIR was founded in 1994, according to its website, but its membership skyrocketed after the attacks. ___ HOW TRUMP REACTED The president on Friday retweeted a video that pulled "some people did something" from Omar's speech and included news footage of the hijacked planes hitting the Twin Towers. Trump also tweeted, "WE WILL NEVER FORGET!" The president elevated criticism largely from Omar's political opponents and conservatives who say Omar's phrasing offered a flippant description of the assailants and the attacks that killed nearly 3,000 people. Neither Trump's tweet nor the video included Omar's full quote or the context of her comments. In Minnesota, Trump kept his remarks at a trucking company in Burnsville mostly focused on the 2017 GOP-passed tax cut. ___ WHO ECHOED TRUMP Other prominent GOP voices joined Trump in criticizing Omar. "First Member of Congress to ever describe terrorists who killed thousands of Americans on 9/11 as 'some people who did something,'" tweeted Rep. Dan Crenshaw, R-Texas. The retired Navy SEAL lost his right eye in 2012 in an explosion in Afghanistan. "Here's your something," the New York Post blared on a cover beneath a photograph of the flaming towers. Fox News Channel host Brian Kilmeade said on a "Fox & Friends" segment on Omar, "You have to wonder if she's an American first." ___ LIFE AND DEATH... Omar has been the target of threats in the past. She tweeted back at Kilmeade and Crenshaw: "This is dangerous incitement, given the death threats I face." "My love and commitment to our country and that of my colleagues should never be in question. We are ALL Americans!" An upstate New York man was charged recently with making death threats against her. ___ SAFETY Members of the Congressional Black Caucus said in a conference call Monday they are concerned for Omar's safety, especially as Trump campaigned in Minnesota. Chairwoman Karen Bass said whipping up "outrage" over Omar "further puts her life in danger." Added House Homeland Security Chairman Bennie Thompson: "Members of Congress should be free to give their opinions on subjects without fear of threat of bodily harm." "I'm concerned about it and the notion that, if your thinking is different from the president's, you become a target." ___ Associated Press Writer Errin Haines Whack contributed to this report. ___

Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump isn't backing down from his tweets about Democratic Rep. Ilhan Omar, one of the first Muslim women to serve in Congress. In fact, he spoke at an event in Omar's home state of Minnesota on Monday amid a ferocious fight over her comments about the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. Omar, a Somali-American, says it's more than a rhetorical squabble, and that lives, including hers, are at stake. Trump says national security is at issue and Omar is "ungrateful." A look at the latest rhetorical battle between the pair that's more broadly about race and whether leaders and their words should be blamed for violence. ___ THE AFTERSHOCKS Omar says she's faced increased death threats since Trump spread around a video that purports to show her being dismissive of the 2001 terrorist attacks. "This is endangering lives," she said, accusing Trump of fomenting extremism. "It has to stop." Her statement late Sunday followed an announcement by House Speaker Nancy Pelosi that she has taken steps to ensure the safety of the Minnesota Democrat. Pelosi also urged Trump to take down the video. The video soon disappeared as a pinned tweet at the top of Trump's Twitter feed, but it was not deleted. Trump further escalated his rhetoric Monday morning, tweeting that, "Before Nancy, who has lost all control of Congress and is getting nothing done, decides to defend her leader, Rep. Omar, she should look at the anti-Semitic, anti-Israel and ungrateful U.S. HATE statements Omar has made." Later Monday, Trump announced he was heading to "the Great State of Minnesota!" Omar responded by retweeting that post with the comment, "The Great State of Minnesota, where we don't only welcome immigrants, we send them to Washington." Minnesota has the largest concentration of Somalis in the nation, and most of those are in the Minneapolis area. On Monday at the London School of Economics and Political Science, Pelosi said: "I don't think any president of the United States should use the tragedy of 9/11 as a political tool. I think that is wrong, I think it's beneath the dignity of the office." ___ WHAT OMAR SAID Omar told a Los Angeles gathering of the Council on American-Islamic Relations on March 23 that many Muslims saw their civil liberties eroded after the Sept. 11 attacks. "For far too long we have lived with the discomfort of being a second-class citizen and, frankly, I'm tired of it, and every single Muslim in this country should be tired of it," she said in the speech, according to video posted online. "CAIR was founded after 9/11, because they recognized that some people did something and that all of us were starting to lose access to our civil liberties." CAIR was founded in 1994, according to its website, but its membership skyrocketed after the attacks. ___ HOW TRUMP REACTED The president on Friday retweeted a video that pulled "some people did something" from Omar's speech and included news footage of the hijacked planes hitting the Twin Towers. Trump also tweeted, "WE WILL NEVER FORGET!" The president elevated criticism largely from Omar's political opponents and conservatives who say Omar's phrasing offered a flippant description of the assailants and the attacks that killed nearly 3,000 people. Neither Trump's tweet nor the video included Omar's full quote or the context of her comments. In Minnesota, Trump kept his remarks at a trucking company in Burnsville mostly focused on the 2017 GOP-passed tax cut. ___ WHO ECHOED TRUMP Other prominent GOP voices joined Trump in criticizing Omar. "First Member of Congress to ever describe terrorists who killed thousands of Americans on 9/11 as 'some people who did something,'" tweeted Rep. Dan Crenshaw, R-Texas. The retired Navy SEAL lost his right eye in 2012 in an explosion in Afghanistan. "Here's your something," the New York Post blared on a cover beneath a photograph of the flaming towers. Fox News Channel host Brian Kilmeade said on a "Fox & Friends" segment on Omar, "You have to wonder if she's an American first." ___ LIFE AND DEATH... Omar has been the target of threats in the past. She tweeted back at Kilmeade and Crenshaw: "This is dangerous incitement, given the death threats I face." "My love and commitment to our country and that of my colleagues should never be in question. We are ALL Americans!" An upstate New York man was charged recently with making death threats against her. ___ SAFETY Members of the Congressional Black Caucus said in a conference call Monday they are concerned for Omar's safety, especially as Trump campaigned in Minnesota. Chairwoman Karen Bass said whipping up "outrage" over Omar "further puts her life in danger." Added House Homeland Security Chairman Bennie Thompson: "Members of Congress should be free to give their opinions on subjects without fear of threat of bodily harm." "I'm concerned about it and the notion that, if your thinking is different from the president's, you become a target." ___ Associated Press Writer Errin Haines Whack contributed to this report. ___