Supported by Nonfiction When you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission. By John B. Judis THE CASE FOR TRUMP By Victor Davis Hanson I had expected that “The Case for Trump” would be an argument for why Donald Trump has been a good president, but it’s mostly about why Trump won in 2016, and its analysis, based on old polling and news clips, is interminable, marred by some cable-news-style exaggeration (Trump’s election foes are repeatedly characterized as being for “open borders”) and not particularly original. Victor Davis Hanson does, however, explain in passing and in the book’s concluding two chapters why he thinks Trump has been a good president, and this argument has some genuine merit and originality. In his preface, Hanson quotes approvingly Henry Kissinger’s judgment of Trump: “I think Trump may be one of those figures in history who appears from time to time to mark the end of an era and to force it to give up its old pretense.” That is true of Trump, as it was of Kissinger’s boss, Richard Nixon. Trump took office at a time when the early promise of globalization had foundered; when the purpose of the American alliance system was in doubt; when glowing projections of liberal democracy in Russia and China had proved dead wrong; and when America was mired in unwinnable wars. He spoke to these challenges in his campaign. His language was brutal, crude and sometimes racist or xenophobic, but in contrast to some of his opponents, he acknowledged the loss of more than two million manufacturing jobs to Chinese competition, the propensity of American companies to move abroad in search of lower wages and the continued difficulty of policing the country’s southern border. But the question is: What as president has he done about these things? Hanson, who is a retired classics professor and a senior fellow at the Hoover Institution, compares Trump to a tragic hero, who, crippled by “an innate flaw,” suffers a sorry end, but in the meantime does incredible good. Hanson acknowledges Trump’s “tweeting … feuding … unbridled and often vicious speech, even his fast and loose relationship with the truth.” He writes that “Trump likely will end in one of two fashions, both not particularly good: either spectacular but unacknowledged accomplishments followed by ostracism when he is out of office and no longer useful, or, less likely, a single term due to the eventual embarrassment of his beneficiaries, as if his utility is no longer worth the wages of his perceived crudity.” In line with the first of these alternatives, Hanson believes that what Trump “accomplished in his first 20 months in office was undeniably impressive.” Hanson credits Trump with ramping up the economy and lowering unemployment through tax cuts and deregulation. He praises Trump for forcing China and Europe into trade negotiations, pulling out of the Paris climate change and Iran nuclear agreements, moving the American embassy to Jerusalem (“Trump blew up the Israeli-Palestinian deadlock”) and “squeezing” North Korea through sanctions. “It was hard to see,” Hanson writes, “how U.S. relations with key allies or deterrent stances against enemies were not improved since the years of the Obama administration, at least in the sense that there was no more naïve Russian reset.” Except for detailing Trump’s success in boosting the economy, Hanson does not argue these points against obvious objections. Pulling out of Paris? Hanson at one point describes global warming as an “apparition,” but he cites no scientific evidence for this or any justification for abandoning international agreements to limit carbon emissions. Improved relations with allies? What about our European allies? Or Canada? As for the Iran deal, he claims that “most experts had known that the Obama-led Iran deal was unworkable and thus unsustainable,” but by my count the most prominent thought otherwise. I am not saying that Trump did nothing that was impressive — he has definitely gone beyond his predecessors in contesting China’s trade practices — but that many of the things Hanson cites as “undeniably impressive” need justification, at least if Hanson intended his book to be read by people who don’t already agree with its bald assertions. Like other political analysts, Hanson portrays the 2016 election as a contest between “two Americas” — an affluent coastal elite and a hinterland that had been flattened by globalization as “jobs and commerce were outsourced to lower-cost Asia and Latin America.” Trump was the voice of the hinterland. The “insidious decline of the Rust Belt by 2016 was the embryo of Donald Trump’s candidacy.” Of course, Trump also attracted conventional Republicans in Kansas or Arizona who simply saw him as preferable to Hillary Clinton, but the blue-collar voters in states like Wisconsin that had previously gone Democratic were the key to his victory. They liked what he said about trade and immigration and his defiance of political correctness. “Trump’s own uncouthness,” Hanson writes, “was in its own manner contextualized by his supporters as a long overdue pushback to the elite disdain and indeed hatred shown them.” Most of Hanson’s book was written before the 2018 election and does not seem to have been substantially revised in the light of the Republican defeats. He predicts that the Midwest, where Democrats did pretty well in 2018, “is insidiously becoming another red-state South.” In his epilogue, based on early estimates, Hanson discounts the 2018 results, writing that the Democrats “in strictly statistical terms had done historically not all that much better than most opposition parties in a president’s first term.” But since 1946, the average loss of the presidential party has been 25 not 40 seats, and in most of these instances, the economy was not booming. In 1998, when it was booming, Bill Clinton’s Democrats gained five seats. That suggests that of the two alternatives Hanson offers, the one that he deems the less likely, “a single term due to the eventual embarrassment of his beneficiaries,” may prove to be his tragic hero’s fate. John B. Judis is the author, most recently, of “The Nationalist Revival: Trade, Immigration, and the Revolt Against Globalization.” THE CASE FOR TRUMP By Victor Davis Hanson 391 pp. Basic Books. $30.  

Supported by Nonfiction When you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission. By John B. Judis THE CASE FOR TRUMP By Victor Davis Hanson I had expected that “The Case for Trump” would be an argument for why Donald Trump has been a good president, but it’s mostly about why Trump won in 2016, and its analysis, based on old polling and news clips, is interminable, marred by some cable-news-style exaggeration (Trump’s election foes are repeatedly characterized as being for “open borders”) and not particularly original. Victor Davis Hanson does, however, explain in passing and in the book’s concluding two chapters why he thinks Trump has been a good president, and this argument has some genuine merit and originality. In his preface, Hanson quotes approvingly Henry Kissinger’s judgment of Trump: “I think Trump may be one of those figures in history who appears from time to time to mark the end of an era and to force it to give up its old pretense.” That is true of Trump, as it was of Kissinger’s boss, Richard Nixon. Trump took office at a time when the early promise of globalization had foundered; when the purpose of the American alliance system was in doubt; when glowing projections of liberal democracy in Russia and China had proved dead wrong; and when America was mired in unwinnable wars. He spoke to these challenges in his campaign. His language was brutal, crude and sometimes racist or xenophobic, but in contrast to some of his opponents, he acknowledged the loss of more than two million manufacturing jobs to Chinese competition, the propensity of American companies to move abroad in search of lower wages and the continued difficulty of policing the country’s southern border. But the question is: What as president has he done about these things? Hanson, who is a retired classics professor and a senior fellow at the Hoover Institution, compares Trump to a tragic hero, who, crippled by “an innate flaw,” suffers a sorry end, but in the meantime does incredible good. Hanson acknowledges Trump’s “tweeting … feuding … unbridled and often vicious speech, even his fast and loose relationship with the truth.” He writes that “Trump likely will end in one of two fashions, both not particularly good: either spectacular but unacknowledged accomplishments followed by ostracism when he is out of office and no longer useful, or, less likely, a single term due to the eventual embarrassment of his beneficiaries, as if his utility is no longer worth the wages of his perceived crudity.” In line with the first of these alternatives, Hanson believes that what Trump “accomplished in his first 20 months in office was undeniably impressive.” Hanson credits Trump with ramping up the economy and lowering unemployment through tax cuts and deregulation. He praises Trump for forcing China and Europe into trade negotiations, pulling out of the Paris climate change and Iran nuclear agreements, moving the American embassy to Jerusalem (“Trump blew up the Israeli-Palestinian deadlock”) and “squeezing” North Korea through sanctions. “It was hard to see,” Hanson writes, “how U.S. relations with key allies or deterrent stances against enemies were not improved since the years of the Obama administration, at least in the sense that there was no more naïve Russian reset.” Except for detailing Trump’s success in boosting the economy, Hanson does not argue these points against obvious objections. Pulling out of Paris? Hanson at one point describes global warming as an “apparition,” but he cites no scientific evidence for this or any justification for abandoning international agreements to limit carbon emissions. Improved relations with allies? What about our European allies? Or Canada? As for the Iran deal, he claims that “most experts had known that the Obama-led Iran deal was unworkable and thus unsustainable,” but by my count the most prominent thought otherwise. I am not saying that Trump did nothing that was impressive — he has definitely gone beyond his predecessors in contesting China’s trade practices — but that many of the things Hanson cites as “undeniably impressive” need justification, at least if Hanson intended his book to be read by people who don’t already agree with its bald assertions. Like other political analysts, Hanson portrays the 2016 election as a contest between “two Americas” — an affluent coastal elite and a hinterland that had been flattened by globalization as “jobs and commerce were outsourced to lower-cost Asia and Latin America.” Trump was the voice of the hinterland. The “insidious decline of the Rust Belt by 2016 was the embryo of Donald Trump’s candidacy.” Of course, Trump also attracted conventional Republicans in Kansas or Arizona who simply saw him as preferable to Hillary Clinton, but the blue-collar voters in states like Wisconsin that had previously gone Democratic were the key to his victory. They liked what he said about trade and immigration and his defiance of political correctness. “Trump’s own uncouthness,” Hanson writes, “was in its own manner contextualized by his supporters as a long overdue pushback to the elite disdain and indeed hatred shown them.” Most of Hanson’s book was written before the 2018 election and does not seem to have been substantially revised in the light of the Republican defeats. He predicts that the Midwest, where Democrats did pretty well in 2018, “is insidiously becoming another red-state South.” In his epilogue, based on early estimates, Hanson discounts the 2018 results, writing that the Democrats “in strictly statistical terms had done historically not all that much better than most opposition parties in a president’s first term.” But since 1946, the average loss of the presidential party has been 25 not 40 seats, and in most of these instances, the economy was not booming. In 1998, when it was booming, Bill Clinton’s Democrats gained five seats. That suggests that of the two alternatives Hanson offers, the one that he deems the less likely, “a single term due to the eventual embarrassment of his beneficiaries,” may prove to be his tragic hero’s fate. John B. Judis is the author, most recently, of “The Nationalist Revival: Trade, Immigration, and the Revolt Against Globalization.” THE CASE FOR TRUMP By Victor Davis Hanson 391 pp. Basic Books. $30.  Supported by By Peter Baker and Maggie Haberman WASHINGTON — When President Trump met with his embattled homeland security secretary on Sunday to force her out after months of stormy eruptions over immigration policy, the only other person in the room was Mick Mulvaney, who made no effort to head off the final confrontation and instead helped draft the letter of resignation. When Mr. Trump decided to get rid of his Secret Service director, officials said, Mr. Mulvaney delivered the message rather than try to talk the president out of it. When Mr. Trump considered whether to ask a court to invalidate the Affordable Care Act despite opposition from his own top legal advisers, Mr. Mulvaney’s response: Follow your gut. In his first 100 days as the president’s acting chief of staff, Mr. Mulvaney has assumed a central role in Mr. Trump’s circle but one markedly different than the previous two occupants of his corner office. For the first time since taking office, Mr. Trump has a chief of staff who has made it his job to encourage rather than restrain the president’s conservative instincts — to let Trump be Trump, in effect. A former congressman from South Carolina and a leader of the Tea Party movement, Mr. Mulvaney is not a product of the Republican establishment like Reince Priebus, the first chief of staff, or the military hierarchy, like John F. Kelly, the second. Instead, he arrived at the White House from the revolutionary wing of the conservative movement, whose goal even before Mr. Trump entered politics was to blow up what it considered a corrupt and liberal Washington. “I don’t think that he sees the role of the chief of staff to alter the personality of the person he works for,” said former Representative Trey Gowdy, a friend and fellow South Carolina Republican who golfed with the president and Mr. Mulvaney last month. “They have a good relationship, but the president’s the boss.” Some outsiders see the cascade of hard-line policy ventures, unorthodox appointments and high-level purges of recent days as a sign of Mr. Mulvaney’s expanding influence, assuming that he is pushing Mr. Trump to the right. But insiders call that a misconception, insisting that Mr. Mulvaney at most is pushing on an open door and otherwise is merely liberating Mr. Trump to pursue the courses he prefers. The lesson Mr. Mulvaney took from the unhappy experiences of Mr. Priebus and Mr. Kelly — both of whom were cast out unceremoniously via Twitter or comments to reporters — was that Mr. Trump is not interested in being managed by aides who think they know better, and so he has tried to build a process that he thinks better serves the president. To some Republicans who had become resigned to an ungovernable White House, Mr. Mulvaney has been a welcome presence, one who has tamped down some of the tribal rivalries that played out in vicious form through clandestine disclosures to the news media. “I think he’s become an asset because he’s learned how to keep the Trump train running,” said Scott Reed, the top political adviser to the United States Chamber of Commerce. “A combination of managing the staff, raising the morale and limiting the leaking has made him a successful Trump chief of staff.” But to his critics, including some Republicans, Mr. Mulvaney’s approach has unleashed the president in dangerous ways. After forcing a five-week government shutdown at the start of the year, Mr. Trump in recent days threatened to close the nation’s southern border, selected unconventional nominees for the Federal Reserve despite significant vetting issues and began clearing out the top ranks of the Department of Homeland Security. In a speech on the Senate floor on Tuesday, Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, lamented the “chaos” in the White House stemming from the president’s “whimsical, erratic” behavior. “I hope that the president or some of the people around him will realize that his administration is far from a fine-tuned machine,” he said. “It’s a slow-motion disaster machine that the American people see in action every day.” Even some Republicans on Capitol Hill hold Mr. Mulvaney in low regard, particularly senators who view him as a former congressman with little deal-making experience and scant inclination to learn. In recent days, some criticized the expanding homeland security purge while others complained that Mr. Mulvaney does not meet with them enough. During tense negotiations amid the government shutdown earlier this year, Senator Richard C. Shelby, the Alabama Republican and Appropriations Committee chairman, complained bitterly about Mr. Mulvaney’s penchant for undoing weeks of bipartisan work with a quick comment to Mr. Trump in the Oval Office. Mr. Shelby told Senator Patrick J. Leahy of Vermont, the committee’s top Democrat, that Mr. Mulvaney was “the most dangerous man” in Washington, according to three people familiar with the exchange. Mr. Shelby has not repeated that in public, but when a reporter on Capitol Hill asked him about Mr. Mulvaney last week, the senator tartly interrupted to offer a correction. “You mean the acting chief of staff?” he said before walking away. Mr. Trump has yet to formally remove the “acting” before the title, but after more than three months Mr. Mulvaney shrugs that off, telling others that everyone who works for the president serves at his pleasure and therefore is acting. Indeed, Mr. Mulvaney is operating not as a temporary caretaker, but as someone who expects to stay for a while, bringing to the West Wing a clutch of aides from the Office of Management and Budget, where he served as director. He has engaged in team-building exercises like retreats at Camp David, most recently last week to discuss efforts to create a replacement for the Affordable Care Act. He is generally liked by the staff, which recoiled at Mr. Kelly’s military style. Mr. Kelly made clear that he hated the job, muttering out loud when he left on many evenings that he might not return the next day. By contrast, Mr. Mulvaney tells people that he loves the job, an attitude that allies said has improved morale. Even some Democrats praised Mr. Mulvaney for reaching out. Representative John Yarmuth of Kentucky, chairman of the House Budget Committee, said his relations with Mr. Mulvaney were “excellent” and noted that he was invited to Camp David for a trust-building visit. “Mick’s never going to resolve Trump’s erratic behavior,” Mr. Yarmuth said. “He’s never going to be able to do anything about that. But over all, I think he’s been a much more effective chief than Kelly has.” Still, Mr. Mulvaney has been criticized internally, by colleagues unwilling to be identified, for creating his own fief. And he has been faulted for appealing to Mr. Trump’s nativist instincts and desire to cater to his hard-core political base. Mr. Trump does not share Mr. Mulvaney’s special passion for hawkish fiscal policies but signed off on a largely symbolic budget that incorporated some of those priorities, only to overrule his aides when proposed funding cuts to Special Olympics were publicized. “The biggest problem I sense with Mulvaney is because of his own politics, he tends to push Trump further to the right than even Trump might want to go,” said Leon E. Panetta, who held the job under President Bill Clinton. “As chief of staff, your greater responsibility is to present to the president the options for what he should decide.” Mr. Mulvaney has told people that he strives to do just that, ensuring that the president hears different points of view. During the deliberations over the Affordable Care Act, allies noted that Mr. Mulvaney made sure that Mr. Trump heard objections lodged by the Justice Department and White House counsel. While Mr. Mulvaney has kept the essence of Mr. Kelly’s policy-development procedure, he consults with Mr. Trump earlier in the process to get his direction, rather than wait until the end. Although he was known as a firebrand in the House who stood up to Republican leaders, he is deferential to Mr. Trump, calling him “boss,” while making a point of spending off hours on the golf course with him. In the West Wing, Mr. Mulvaney is seen as someone who knows when to fight battles, as opposed to Mr. Kelly, who often found himself at odds with Mr. Trump’s adult children and informal advisers. He does not try to manage access to the president as Mr. Kelly did. Rather than fight Mr. Trump’s natural desire to meet and talk with a variety of people, Mr. Mulvaney has taken a decentralized approach that he calls chief of staff by committee, empowering different advisers to provide the president their guidance. It is a style most associated with Presidents Gerald R. Ford and Jimmy Carter, each of whom resisted having a strong chief of staff at first, preferring what was called a “hub and spoke” model in which many people had access to the Oval Office. Both eventually abandoned the approach, concluding that it did not work, and Mr. Mulvaney eschews the hub-and-spoke term to avoid associations with those failed experiments. People close to the president say Mr. Mulvaney gets too much credit — or blame — for Mr. Trump’s rightward turn on policy. Mr. Trump’s instinct is to appeal to core supporters who he fears will leave him, and he is the one who wants to demonstrate to them that he is continuing a hard line on immigration. David Bossie, president of the conservative group Citizens United and a former deputy campaign manager for Mr. Trump, said the president was adjusting to a changing political environment. “The president is responding to that new world order and that’s the mind-set,” Mr. Bossie said. “He is under siege by congressional Democrats, and that is how he’s operating — under siege.” And Mr. Mulvaney is in the trench next to him. Glenn Thrush, Katie Rogers and Emily Cochrane contributed reporting. Follow Peter Baker and Maggie Haberman on Twitter: @peterbakernyt and @maggienyt.   

Supported by By Peter Baker and Maggie Haberman WASHINGTON — When President Trump met with his embattled homeland security secretary on Sunday to force her out after months of stormy eruptions over immigration policy, the only other person in the room was Mick Mulvaney, who made no effort to head off the final confrontation and instead helped draft the letter of resignation. When Mr. Trump decided to get rid of his Secret Service director, officials said, Mr. Mulvaney delivered the message rather than try to talk the president out of it. When Mr. Trump considered whether to ask a court to invalidate the Affordable Care Act despite opposition from his own top legal advisers, Mr. Mulvaney’s response: Follow your gut. In his first 100 days as the president’s acting chief of staff, Mr. Mulvaney has assumed a central role in Mr. Trump’s circle but one markedly different than the previous two occupants of his corner office. For the first time since taking office, Mr. Trump has a chief of staff who has made it his job to encourage rather than restrain the president’s conservative instincts — to let Trump be Trump, in effect. A former congressman from South Carolina and a leader of the Tea Party movement, Mr. Mulvaney is not a product of the Republican establishment like Reince Priebus, the first chief of staff, or the military hierarchy, like John F. Kelly, the second. Instead, he arrived at the White House from the revolutionary wing of the conservative movement, whose goal even before Mr. Trump entered politics was to blow up what it considered a corrupt and liberal Washington. “I don’t think that he sees the role of the chief of staff to alter the personality of the person he works for,” said former Representative Trey Gowdy, a friend and fellow South Carolina Republican who golfed with the president and Mr. Mulvaney last month. “They have a good relationship, but the president’s the boss.” Some outsiders see the cascade of hard-line policy ventures, unorthodox appointments and high-level purges of recent days as a sign of Mr. Mulvaney’s expanding influence, assuming that he is pushing Mr. Trump to the right. But insiders call that a misconception, insisting that Mr. Mulvaney at most is pushing on an open door and otherwise is merely liberating Mr. Trump to pursue the courses he prefers. The lesson Mr. Mulvaney took from the unhappy experiences of Mr. Priebus and Mr. Kelly — both of whom were cast out unceremoniously via Twitter or comments to reporters — was that Mr. Trump is not interested in being managed by aides who think they know better, and so he has tried to build a process that he thinks better serves the president. To some Republicans who had become resigned to an ungovernable White House, Mr. Mulvaney has been a welcome presence, one who has tamped down some of the tribal rivalries that played out in vicious form through clandestine disclosures to the news media. “I think he’s become an asset because he’s learned how to keep the Trump train running,” said Scott Reed, the top political adviser to the United States Chamber of Commerce. “A combination of managing the staff, raising the morale and limiting the leaking has made him a successful Trump chief of staff.” But to his critics, including some Republicans, Mr. Mulvaney’s approach has unleashed the president in dangerous ways. After forcing a five-week government shutdown at the start of the year, Mr. Trump in recent days threatened to close the nation’s southern border, selected unconventional nominees for the Federal Reserve despite significant vetting issues and began clearing out the top ranks of the Department of Homeland Security. In a speech on the Senate floor on Tuesday, Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, lamented the “chaos” in the White House stemming from the president’s “whimsical, erratic” behavior. “I hope that the president or some of the people around him will realize that his administration is far from a fine-tuned machine,” he said. “It’s a slow-motion disaster machine that the American people see in action every day.” Even some Republicans on Capitol Hill hold Mr. Mulvaney in low regard, particularly senators who view him as a former congressman with little deal-making experience and scant inclination to learn. In recent days, some criticized the expanding homeland security purge while others complained that Mr. Mulvaney does not meet with them enough. During tense negotiations amid the government shutdown earlier this year, Senator Richard C. Shelby, the Alabama Republican and Appropriations Committee chairman, complained bitterly about Mr. Mulvaney’s penchant for undoing weeks of bipartisan work with a quick comment to Mr. Trump in the Oval Office. Mr. Shelby told Senator Patrick J. Leahy of Vermont, the committee’s top Democrat, that Mr. Mulvaney was “the most dangerous man” in Washington, according to three people familiar with the exchange. Mr. Shelby has not repeated that in public, but when a reporter on Capitol Hill asked him about Mr. Mulvaney last week, the senator tartly interrupted to offer a correction. “You mean the acting chief of staff?” he said before walking away. Mr. Trump has yet to formally remove the “acting” before the title, but after more than three months Mr. Mulvaney shrugs that off, telling others that everyone who works for the president serves at his pleasure and therefore is acting. Indeed, Mr. Mulvaney is operating not as a temporary caretaker, but as someone who expects to stay for a while, bringing to the West Wing a clutch of aides from the Office of Management and Budget, where he served as director. He has engaged in team-building exercises like retreats at Camp David, most recently last week to discuss efforts to create a replacement for the Affordable Care Act. He is generally liked by the staff, which recoiled at Mr. Kelly’s military style. Mr. Kelly made clear that he hated the job, muttering out loud when he left on many evenings that he might not return the next day. By contrast, Mr. Mulvaney tells people that he loves the job, an attitude that allies said has improved morale. Even some Democrats praised Mr. Mulvaney for reaching out. Representative John Yarmuth of Kentucky, chairman of the House Budget Committee, said his relations with Mr. Mulvaney were “excellent” and noted that he was invited to Camp David for a trust-building visit. “Mick’s never going to resolve Trump’s erratic behavior,” Mr. Yarmuth said. “He’s never going to be able to do anything about that. But over all, I think he’s been a much more effective chief than Kelly has.” Still, Mr. Mulvaney has been criticized internally, by colleagues unwilling to be identified, for creating his own fief. And he has been faulted for appealing to Mr. Trump’s nativist instincts and desire to cater to his hard-core political base. Mr. Trump does not share Mr. Mulvaney’s special passion for hawkish fiscal policies but signed off on a largely symbolic budget that incorporated some of those priorities, only to overrule his aides when proposed funding cuts to Special Olympics were publicized. “The biggest problem I sense with Mulvaney is because of his own politics, he tends to push Trump further to the right than even Trump might want to go,” said Leon E. Panetta, who held the job under President Bill Clinton. “As chief of staff, your greater responsibility is to present to the president the options for what he should decide.” Mr. Mulvaney has told people that he strives to do just that, ensuring that the president hears different points of view. During the deliberations over the Affordable Care Act, allies noted that Mr. Mulvaney made sure that Mr. Trump heard objections lodged by the Justice Department and White House counsel. While Mr. Mulvaney has kept the essence of Mr. Kelly’s policy-development procedure, he consults with Mr. Trump earlier in the process to get his direction, rather than wait until the end. Although he was known as a firebrand in the House who stood up to Republican leaders, he is deferential to Mr. Trump, calling him “boss,” while making a point of spending off hours on the golf course with him. In the West Wing, Mr. Mulvaney is seen as someone who knows when to fight battles, as opposed to Mr. Kelly, who often found himself at odds with Mr. Trump’s adult children and informal advisers. He does not try to manage access to the president as Mr. Kelly did. Rather than fight Mr. Trump’s natural desire to meet and talk with a variety of people, Mr. Mulvaney has taken a decentralized approach that he calls chief of staff by committee, empowering different advisers to provide the president their guidance. It is a style most associated with Presidents Gerald R. Ford and Jimmy Carter, each of whom resisted having a strong chief of staff at first, preferring what was called a “hub and spoke” model in which many people had access to the Oval Office. Both eventually abandoned the approach, concluding that it did not work, and Mr. Mulvaney eschews the hub-and-spoke term to avoid associations with those failed experiments. People close to the president say Mr. Mulvaney gets too much credit — or blame — for Mr. Trump’s rightward turn on policy. Mr. Trump’s instinct is to appeal to core supporters who he fears will leave him, and he is the one who wants to demonstrate to them that he is continuing a hard line on immigration. David Bossie, president of the conservative group Citizens United and a former deputy campaign manager for Mr. Trump, said the president was adjusting to a changing political environment. “The president is responding to that new world order and that’s the mind-set,” Mr. Bossie said. “He is under siege by congressional Democrats, and that is how he’s operating — under siege.” And Mr. Mulvaney is in the trench next to him. Glenn Thrush, Katie Rogers and Emily Cochrane contributed reporting. Follow Peter Baker and Maggie Haberman on Twitter: @peterbakernyt and @maggienyt.   Supported by The rate of job growth in Republican-leaning regions is outstripping the rate in more Democratic areas. By Thomas B. Edsall Mr. Edsall contributes a weekly column from Washington, D.C. on politics, demographics and inequality. In small but politically significant ways, the economy under President Trump has favored regions and constituencies that supported him in 2016. These are the men and women whom Trump called forgotten Americans. The emerging pattern of economic growth reverses a trend that held from the 2008 recession to 2016, in which Democratic-leaning states and counties far outpaced Republican-leaning sections of the country. Now, under a Republican administration, job growth rates in Trump country are rising faster than they are in Democratic America. As the national unemployment rate hovers at just below 4 percent, far more red states than blue states are setting records for low levels of joblessness. “Everyone’s accelerated, but Trump counties have gone from lagging Clinton counties to seeing faster job growth,” Mark Muro, a senior fellow at Brookings wrote by email. “Redder, smaller, more rural communities really are ‘winning’ a little more. So long as there’s no recession, that may shape the atmosphere surrounding the 2020 election.” On March 22, for example, the Bureau of Labor Statistics released a chart illustrating the fact that eight of the 10 states with job growth of 2 percent or more between February 2018 and February 2019 voted for Trump in 2016. Four of these states are potential 2020 battlegrounds. Muro provided the data for the accompanying chart showing the changing rates of job growth in different regions of the country. During the Obama administration — from January 2010 to January 2017 — the number of jobs grew at 1.7 percent annually in counties that voted for Clinton and at 1.5 percent in counties that voted for Trump. Recent Job Growth in Republican Counties Outpaced Growth in Democratic Ones Jan. ‘10  to Jan. ‘17 Jan. ‘17  to Sept. ‘18 Counties won by Trump +1.5% 2.6% Counties won by Clinton 1.7% 2.2% Note: Figures are for employment compound annual growth rate. By The New York Times | Source: Brookings using Ipums-C.P.S data During the first 21 months of the Trump administration — January 2017 to September 2018 — both Clinton and Trump counties continued to experience faster rates of job growth. But the increase was substantially larger in Trump counties, where the rate of growth increased from 1.5 to 2.6 percent. That growth may appear small, but it in fact represents more than a 70 percent increase in the rate of job production. That increase served to push the Trump counties ahead of the Clinton counties, which went from 1.7 to 2.2 percent — a 30 percent increase in the rate of job production. In the Midwest, the political importance of the Trump-voting counties cannot be overestimated. He won Pennsylvania, Wisconsin and Michigan by a combined total of 77,744 votes out of more than 13 million votes cast in those states. While Trump has claimed, and will continue to claim, credit for the improvement, Muro argued in an email that “the uptick in 2017-2018 seems mostly to reflect industry effects, rather than policy,” adding “the tax package may have had some temporary effect.” In an earlier Brookings report — “In 2017, Rural Places Won a Little More, But Will It last?” — published in March of last year, Muro and Jacob Whiton, a senior research assistant, found that in the nation’s rural areas the economy performed well in 2017. These communities, they pointed out,  home to 12.4 percent of U.S. jobs — actually had a pretty good year in 2017. Rural areas in fact outperformed their share of the economy to generate some 16.6 percent of the nation’s job growth. “In short,” Muro and Whiton wrote, at least one core portion of Trump’s America finally won a little during his first year in office. The authors warned that it would be very difficult to sustain rural growth: Many of the industries that added jobs in rural communities in 2017 — such as logging, mining, oil and gas, and construction — remain cyclical given economic and commodity trends larger than any Trump-era deregulation drive or tax cut. In addition, Muro and Whiton argued, the types of physical or rote jobs prevalent in rural America remain disproportionately vulnerable to automation and globalization in a digital era that seems to favor the biggest, densest cities with their high education levels and powerful “agglomeration’ economies.” Rural areas have held their own during the first 26 months of the Trump administration. Alex Brill, resident fellow at the American Enterprise Institute, tracked state-by-state employment patterns in a paper, “What Is Behind That Record-Breaking State Unemployment Rate Data?” He found that 10 states — many of them with large rural populations — broke records in 2019 by hitting their lowest unemployment rates in history: Alabama, Iowa, Kentucky, Mississippi, North Dakota, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee, Vermont and Wisconsin. Nine out of ten of these states voted for Trump. Brill found that an additional 11 states came within a quarter percentage point of record-breaking lows. If you take these 21 states together, 14 of them voted for Trump. In all of these states — and in virtually every state Trump carried — white men who had not graduated from college (polling shorthand for the white working class) were a crucial constituency driving Trump’s victories. On the website of the Economic Policy Institute, a liberal think tank, there is a detailed compilation of hourly wage levels by race, ethnicity and gender. It shows that among workers with no more than high school degrees, white men saw their inflation-adjusted hourly wages rise from $21.22 in 2016 to $21.88 in 2018. That’s not much, but in an era of wage stagnation, it is something. White men without college degrees have gotten what amounts to a 3.1 percent raise over the past two years, compared with 1.5 percent for black men, 1.7 percent for white women, 0.6 percent for black women and 1.0 percent for Hispanic women. The largest wage hike, interestingly, at 4.6 percent, went to Hispanic men. The political ramifications of these trends are far from clear. These same favorable economic developments were present last November, but that did not prevent a Democratic wave from wresting control of the House from Republicans. Plus, employment gains by non-college white men have been erratic, subject to significant seasonal upticks compared with the employment trends of college-educated whites. The accompanying chart, produced from data shared with The Times by Jacob Whiton of Brookings, describes the up-and-down trends among non-college white men, whose unemployment rates during the Trump administration have bounced back and forth from 4 to 6 percent. During the same period, levels for white men with college degrees have held steady in the 2.5 to 3 percent range. Unemployment Rates for White  Men Without College Degrees Have Fluctuated During Trump’s Tenure No college education 6% unemployed 4 College educated 2 0 2017 2018 2019 By The New York Times | Source: Brookings using Ipums-C.P.S data Employment fluctuations of this kind, experienced by Trump’s least affluent voters, are likely to stimulate political volatility, making it impossible for many of the beneficiaries of lowered unemployment to remain confident in their new jobs. And finally, Trump’s often repeated claims of a record-breaking economy — “We’ve accomplished an economic turnaround of historic proportions” — face exceptionally high levels of public distrust. The April 6-9 Economist/YouGov poll asked “How often do you think Donald Trump says things that may not be correct?” 30 percent said “all the time,” 20 percent said “often,” and 26 percent “sometimes.” Twelve percent said “rarely” and 3 percent said “never.” Asked if Trump “exercises mostly good or mostly bad judgment,” 35 percent said “mostly good” and 49 percent said “mostly bad.” Trump’s credibility is such that a majority of Americans reportedly do not believe that they paid less in taxes for 2018 as a result of the Trump tax bill. As my Times colleagues Ben Casselman and Jim Tankersley wrote on Sunday, Ever since President Trump signed the Republican-sponsored tax bill in December 2017, independent analyses have consistently found that a large majority of Americans would owe less because of the law. Casselman and Tankersley cite an NBC/Wall Street Journal poll conducted earlier this month in which 17 percent of those surveyed thought they were getting a tax cut, while 28 percent believed their taxes had increased. But the key question is: How much discontent and perceived injustice does Trump require in order to win? Ronald Inglehart and Pippa Norris, political scientists at the University of Michigan and Harvard, offer an answer to this question in “Trump, Brexit, and the Rise of Populism: Economic Have-Nots and Cultural Backlash.” They argue that there are two components fueling the aggravation of popular resentments that ignite fervid support in American and Europe for right-wing populism. First: fanning anger over “globalization” and “rising economic insecurity and social deprivation among the left-behinds.” Second: exacerbating cultural tensions — making less secure whites living in areas of economic decline fearful of immigrants and “susceptible to the anti-establishment, nativist, and xenophobic scaremongering” — in short, “blaming ‘Them’ for stripping prosperity, job opportunities, and public services from ‘Us’. ” Where cultural and economic anxiety are mutually reinforcing, it would be political death for Trump if his base of voters were to achieve security from both threats. If he stresses the prosperity he claims to have generated, he runs the risk of removing the impetus to stick with his nativist crusade. At the same time, if he stops his incendiary provocation of nationalist and ethno-centrist hatred, he risks losing his frightened followers. To win, Trump must keep the enemy vivid in the minds of his “forgotten Americans.” He cannot allow their blood to stop boiling.  The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Thomas B. Edsall has been a contributor to The Times Opinion section since 2011. His column on strategic and demographic trends in American politics appears every Wednesday. He previously covered politics for The Washington Post.   @edsall 

Supported by The rate of job growth in Republican-leaning regions is outstripping the rate in more Democratic areas. By Thomas B. Edsall Mr. Edsall contributes a weekly column from Washington, D.C. on politics, demographics and inequality. In small but politically significant ways, the economy under President Trump has favored regions and constituencies that supported him in 2016. These are the men and women whom Trump called forgotten Americans. The emerging pattern of economic growth reverses a trend that held from the 2008 recession to 2016, in which Democratic-leaning states and counties far outpaced Republican-leaning sections of the country. Now, under a Republican administration, job growth rates in Trump country are rising faster than they are in Democratic America. As the national unemployment rate hovers at just below 4 percent, far more red states than blue states are setting records for low levels of joblessness. “Everyone’s accelerated, but Trump counties have gone from lagging Clinton counties to seeing faster job growth,” Mark Muro, a senior fellow at Brookings wrote by email. “Redder, smaller, more rural communities really are ‘winning’ a little more. So long as there’s no recession, that may shape the atmosphere surrounding the 2020 election.” On March 22, for example, the Bureau of Labor Statistics released a chart illustrating the fact that eight of the 10 states with job growth of 2 percent or more between February 2018 and February 2019 voted for Trump in 2016. Four of these states are potential 2020 battlegrounds. Muro provided the data for the accompanying chart showing the changing rates of job growth in different regions of the country. During the Obama administration — from January 2010 to January 2017 — the number of jobs grew at 1.7 percent annually in counties that voted for Clinton and at 1.5 percent in counties that voted for Trump. Recent Job Growth in Republican Counties Outpaced Growth in Democratic Ones Jan. ‘10  to Jan. ‘17 Jan. ‘17  to Sept. ‘18 Counties won by Trump +1.5% 2.6% Counties won by Clinton 1.7% 2.2% Note: Figures are for employment compound annual growth rate. By The New York Times | Source: Brookings using Ipums-C.P.S data During the first 21 months of the Trump administration — January 2017 to September 2018 — both Clinton and Trump counties continued to experience faster rates of job growth. But the increase was substantially larger in Trump counties, where the rate of growth increased from 1.5 to 2.6 percent. That growth may appear small, but it in fact represents more than a 70 percent increase in the rate of job production. That increase served to push the Trump counties ahead of the Clinton counties, which went from 1.7 to 2.2 percent — a 30 percent increase in the rate of job production. In the Midwest, the political importance of the Trump-voting counties cannot be overestimated. He won Pennsylvania, Wisconsin and Michigan by a combined total of 77,744 votes out of more than 13 million votes cast in those states. While Trump has claimed, and will continue to claim, credit for the improvement, Muro argued in an email that “the uptick in 2017-2018 seems mostly to reflect industry effects, rather than policy,” adding “the tax package may have had some temporary effect.” In an earlier Brookings report — “In 2017, Rural Places Won a Little More, But Will It last?” — published in March of last year, Muro and Jacob Whiton, a senior research assistant, found that in the nation’s rural areas the economy performed well in 2017. These communities, they pointed out,  home to 12.4 percent of U.S. jobs — actually had a pretty good year in 2017. Rural areas in fact outperformed their share of the economy to generate some 16.6 percent of the nation’s job growth. “In short,” Muro and Whiton wrote, at least one core portion of Trump’s America finally won a little during his first year in office. The authors warned that it would be very difficult to sustain rural growth: Many of the industries that added jobs in rural communities in 2017 — such as logging, mining, oil and gas, and construction — remain cyclical given economic and commodity trends larger than any Trump-era deregulation drive or tax cut. In addition, Muro and Whiton argued, the types of physical or rote jobs prevalent in rural America remain disproportionately vulnerable to automation and globalization in a digital era that seems to favor the biggest, densest cities with their high education levels and powerful “agglomeration’ economies.” Rural areas have held their own during the first 26 months of the Trump administration. Alex Brill, resident fellow at the American Enterprise Institute, tracked state-by-state employment patterns in a paper, “What Is Behind That Record-Breaking State Unemployment Rate Data?” He found that 10 states — many of them with large rural populations — broke records in 2019 by hitting their lowest unemployment rates in history: Alabama, Iowa, Kentucky, Mississippi, North Dakota, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee, Vermont and Wisconsin. Nine out of ten of these states voted for Trump. Brill found that an additional 11 states came within a quarter percentage point of record-breaking lows. If you take these 21 states together, 14 of them voted for Trump. In all of these states — and in virtually every state Trump carried — white men who had not graduated from college (polling shorthand for the white working class) were a crucial constituency driving Trump’s victories. On the website of the Economic Policy Institute, a liberal think tank, there is a detailed compilation of hourly wage levels by race, ethnicity and gender. It shows that among workers with no more than high school degrees, white men saw their inflation-adjusted hourly wages rise from $21.22 in 2016 to $21.88 in 2018. That’s not much, but in an era of wage stagnation, it is something. White men without college degrees have gotten what amounts to a 3.1 percent raise over the past two years, compared with 1.5 percent for black men, 1.7 percent for white women, 0.6 percent for black women and 1.0 percent for Hispanic women. The largest wage hike, interestingly, at 4.6 percent, went to Hispanic men. The political ramifications of these trends are far from clear. These same favorable economic developments were present last November, but that did not prevent a Democratic wave from wresting control of the House from Republicans. Plus, employment gains by non-college white men have been erratic, subject to significant seasonal upticks compared with the employment trends of college-educated whites. The accompanying chart, produced from data shared with The Times by Jacob Whiton of Brookings, describes the up-and-down trends among non-college white men, whose unemployment rates during the Trump administration have bounced back and forth from 4 to 6 percent. During the same period, levels for white men with college degrees have held steady in the 2.5 to 3 percent range. Unemployment Rates for White  Men Without College Degrees Have Fluctuated During Trump’s Tenure No college education 6% unemployed 4 College educated 2 0 2017 2018 2019 By The New York Times | Source: Brookings using Ipums-C.P.S data Employment fluctuations of this kind, experienced by Trump’s least affluent voters, are likely to stimulate political volatility, making it impossible for many of the beneficiaries of lowered unemployment to remain confident in their new jobs. And finally, Trump’s often repeated claims of a record-breaking economy — “We’ve accomplished an economic turnaround of historic proportions” — face exceptionally high levels of public distrust. The April 6-9 Economist/YouGov poll asked “How often do you think Donald Trump says things that may not be correct?” 30 percent said “all the time,” 20 percent said “often,” and 26 percent “sometimes.” Twelve percent said “rarely” and 3 percent said “never.” Asked if Trump “exercises mostly good or mostly bad judgment,” 35 percent said “mostly good” and 49 percent said “mostly bad.” Trump’s credibility is such that a majority of Americans reportedly do not believe that they paid less in taxes for 2018 as a result of the Trump tax bill. As my Times colleagues Ben Casselman and Jim Tankersley wrote on Sunday, Ever since President Trump signed the Republican-sponsored tax bill in December 2017, independent analyses have consistently found that a large majority of Americans would owe less because of the law. Casselman and Tankersley cite an NBC/Wall Street Journal poll conducted earlier this month in which 17 percent of those surveyed thought they were getting a tax cut, while 28 percent believed their taxes had increased. But the key question is: How much discontent and perceived injustice does Trump require in order to win? Ronald Inglehart and Pippa Norris, political scientists at the University of Michigan and Harvard, offer an answer to this question in “Trump, Brexit, and the Rise of Populism: Economic Have-Nots and Cultural Backlash.” They argue that there are two components fueling the aggravation of popular resentments that ignite fervid support in American and Europe for right-wing populism. First: fanning anger over “globalization” and “rising economic insecurity and social deprivation among the left-behinds.” Second: exacerbating cultural tensions — making less secure whites living in areas of economic decline fearful of immigrants and “susceptible to the anti-establishment, nativist, and xenophobic scaremongering” — in short, “blaming ‘Them’ for stripping prosperity, job opportunities, and public services from ‘Us’. ” Where cultural and economic anxiety are mutually reinforcing, it would be political death for Trump if his base of voters were to achieve security from both threats. If he stresses the prosperity he claims to have generated, he runs the risk of removing the impetus to stick with his nativist crusade. At the same time, if he stops his incendiary provocation of nationalist and ethno-centrist hatred, he risks losing his frightened followers. To win, Trump must keep the enemy vivid in the minds of his “forgotten Americans.” He cannot allow their blood to stop boiling.  The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Thomas B. Edsall has been a contributor to The Times Opinion section since 2011. His column on strategic and demographic trends in American politics appears every Wednesday. He previously covered politics for The Washington Post.   @edsall Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — The leader of Senate Democrats says "chaos" in the Trump administration on immigration and other policy is the president's fault. Senate Minority Leader Charles Schumer said on the Senate floor Tuesday that President Donald Trump "cannot keep changing personnel, changing strategy, tweeting your way through a problem as serious" as immigration. The New York Democrat said the result is "chaos when it comes to border issues, all created by the president and his whimsical, erratic and oftentimes nasty pursuit of policy." Schumer spoke after Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen resigned under pressure from a president frustrated that she wasn't taking a hard enough line on immigration, part of a shakeup at DHS. Trump has overseen massive turnover at the top of agencies, often without naming permanent replacements.

Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — The leader of Senate Democrats says "chaos" in the Trump administration on immigration and other policy is the president's fault. Senate Minority Leader Charles Schumer said on the Senate floor Tuesday that President Donald Trump "cannot keep changing personnel, changing strategy, tweeting your way through a problem as serious" as immigration. The New York Democrat said the result is "chaos when it comes to border issues, all created by the president and his whimsical, erratic and oftentimes nasty pursuit of policy." Schumer spoke after Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen resigned under pressure from a president frustrated that she wasn't taking a hard enough line on immigration, part of a shakeup at DHS. Trump has overseen massive turnover at the top of agencies, often without naming permanent replacements.Supported by By Reuters SAN FRANCISCO — Herman Cain, the former pizza chain executive picked by President Donald Trump for a policy seat on the Federal Reserve, panned 'liberal lunatics' and socialism in Monday's installment of his eponymous show on Facebook.  He said he is being attacked as a conservative but would put on "the full armor of God" to protect himself from critics he called "the devil."  Stephen Moore, an economic commentator and another of Trump's picks for the Fed's Board of Governors, predicted on one radio talk show an "overwhelming landslide reelection" for Trump if the economy stays strong, but warned "we need to make sure the Fed isn't pulling the money supply out of the economy and I'm a little nervous about that." "I want to be the growth guy over at the Fed," Moore said in a separate radio interview on Monday. "I want to be able to accommodate these growth policies that Trump has put in place that have created the best economy in the world, probably." As the two men undergo what Moore says could be months of background checks before their expected nominations to the world's most important central bank, neither appeared concerned about safeguarding the partisan neutrality that Fed officials say is critical to effective monetary policymaking.  Indeed, both displayed their loyalty to Trump and support for his economic policies and reelection.  Cain continues to allow his name and photograph to be used in campaigns by the political fundraising group he founded whose main aim is to ensure that Trump is reelected. Trump has railed against the Fed and his own pick for the central bank's chairman, Jerome Powell, after a series of four interest rate increases last year that Trump claims have held back an economy that otherwise would be growing like a "rocket ship."  On Sunday, White House economic adviser Larry Kudlow defended the Trump's picks, saying the president has "every right" to put people who share his philosophy on the central bank's policysetting panel. Both men have come under intense scrutiny since their nominations.  Cain, who dropped out of a presidential bid in 2012 amid allegations of sexual harassment he calls false, said on Monday he is the victim of "hack attacks" by people who say "negative, unfair, insane things" about him. "Because I ran as a Republican for president and the United States Senate, and because I am an outspoken voice of conservatism, an outspoken voice of the Constitution and the laws, I’m being attacked," Cain said in the video Monday.  Cain said his experience as a director at the Kansas City Fed in the 1990s helps qualify him for the position on the Board of Governors. Regional Fed bank directors do not take part in monetary policymaking. Both Cain and Moore have expressed support for Trump's economic policies and Moore has said he would support a rate cut to boost growth.  “I think this boom can continue for another three, four, five years if Trump gets elected, and we keep these policies in place," Moore told radio talk show host Frank Beckmann. "This is not a sugar high, this is the result of an agenda that is focused on American workers and American businesses."   (Reporting by Ann Saphir; Editing by Leslie Adler & Simon Cameron-Moore)

Supported by By Reuters SAN FRANCISCO — Herman Cain, the former pizza chain executive picked by President Donald Trump for a policy seat on the Federal Reserve, panned 'liberal lunatics' and socialism in Monday's installment of his eponymous show on Facebook.  He said he is being attacked as a conservative but would put on "the full armor of God" to protect himself from critics he called "the devil."  Stephen Moore, an economic commentator and another of Trump's picks for the Fed's Board of Governors, predicted on one radio talk show an "overwhelming landslide reelection" for Trump if the economy stays strong, but warned "we need to make sure the Fed isn't pulling the money supply out of the economy and I'm a little nervous about that." "I want to be the growth guy over at the Fed," Moore said in a separate radio interview on Monday. "I want to be able to accommodate these growth policies that Trump has put in place that have created the best economy in the world, probably." As the two men undergo what Moore says could be months of background checks before their expected nominations to the world's most important central bank, neither appeared concerned about safeguarding the partisan neutrality that Fed officials say is critical to effective monetary policymaking.  Indeed, both displayed their loyalty to Trump and support for his economic policies and reelection.  Cain continues to allow his name and photograph to be used in campaigns by the political fundraising group he founded whose main aim is to ensure that Trump is reelected. Trump has railed against the Fed and his own pick for the central bank's chairman, Jerome Powell, after a series of four interest rate increases last year that Trump claims have held back an economy that otherwise would be growing like a "rocket ship."  On Sunday, White House economic adviser Larry Kudlow defended the Trump's picks, saying the president has "every right" to put people who share his philosophy on the central bank's policysetting panel. Both men have come under intense scrutiny since their nominations.  Cain, who dropped out of a presidential bid in 2012 amid allegations of sexual harassment he calls false, said on Monday he is the victim of "hack attacks" by people who say "negative, unfair, insane things" about him. "Because I ran as a Republican for president and the United States Senate, and because I am an outspoken voice of conservatism, an outspoken voice of the Constitution and the laws, I’m being attacked," Cain said in the video Monday.  Cain said his experience as a director at the Kansas City Fed in the 1990s helps qualify him for the position on the Board of Governors. Regional Fed bank directors do not take part in monetary policymaking. Both Cain and Moore have expressed support for Trump's economic policies and Moore has said he would support a rate cut to boost growth.  “I think this boom can continue for another three, four, five years if Trump gets elected, and we keep these policies in place," Moore told radio talk show host Frank Beckmann. "This is not a sugar high, this is the result of an agenda that is focused on American workers and American businesses."   (Reporting by Ann Saphir; Editing by Leslie Adler & Simon Cameron-Moore)Supported by Charles Van Doren’s death marks the end of an era. By Bret Stephens Opinion Columnist I had never heard of Charles Van Doren until, in college, I saw the movie “Quiz Show,” and I probably never thought of him again until I read his obituary this week in The Times. Van Doren, if you didn’t know, was the polished scion of a distinguished American literary family, who in the 1950s was a champion contestant on the NBC show “Twenty-One,” dazzling millions of viewers with what looked like preternatural erudition. But the show had been rigged, the contestants coached, their fates determined by the need of the producers to manufacture drama and maintain ratings. When the truth came out, America was scandalized and Van Doren nearly ruined. “I would give almost anything I have to reverse the course of my life in the last three years,” he told a congressional committee in 1959, after finally coming clean about what he had done (along with other contestants). He spent the remainder of his 93 years living a decidedly quiet and unblemished life. How quaint. Had Van Doren come along a few decades later, there would have been no big scandal in fabricating reality and no great shame in participating in it. The lines between fame and infamy would have blurred, and both could be monetized. Personal disgrace might have been explained away as a form of victimization by a greedy corporation, an unloving parent, systemic social forces — or with the claim, possibly true, that nearly everybody does it. The contrast between then and now is worth pondering in the Age of Trump — an age whose signature feature isn’t populism or nationalism or any other –ism widely attached to the president. It’s the attempted annihilation of shame. Shame is neither sin nor folly. It’s what people are supposed to feel in the commission, recollection or exposure of sin and folly. In days bygone, the prescribed method for avoiding shame was behaving well. Or, if it couldn’t be avoided, feeling deep remorse and performing some sort of penance. By contrast, the Trumpian method for avoiding shame is not giving a damn. Spurious bone-spur draft deferment? Shrug. Fraudulent business and charitable practices? Snigger. Outrageous personal invective? Sneer. Inhumane treatment of children at the border? Snarl. Hush-money payoffs to porn-star and centerfold mistresses? Stud! The annihilation of shame requires two things. First, nerve: Whatever else might be said about Trump, it takes immense brass to lie as frequently and flagrantly as he does without apparently triggering any kind of internal emotional crisis. Ordinary mortals tend to blush when caught out in some kind of mischief. Trump smirks. But it also takes public acquiescence. Van Doren might have succeeded in quickly burying his shame if the revelation of his cheating hadn’t led to tidal waves of dismay and disdain. The United States of the 1950s wasn’t yet the land of premature exoneration. A half-century after the scandal, when Van Doren finally wrote about his experiences in an essay for The New Yorker, he confessed, “It’s been hard to get away, partly because the man who cheated on ‘Twenty-One’ is still part of me.” Will the cheaters of today — think of Jussie Smollett or Felicity Huffman — feel the same kind of self-reproach in 10 or 20 years? Hard to say, though I doubt it. Smollett, who was accused of staging a hate crime against himself, expressed no contrition after all the charges against him were curiously dropped and his court file sealed. Huffman did better by pleading guilty in the college-admissions cheating scandal, and will surely have to lay low for a while. But a comeback story — polished, perhaps, by a teary TV confessional and a tastefully publicized journey of self-discovery — surely awaits her, and maybe Smollett, too. It was once the useful role of conservatives to resist these sorts of trends — to stand athwart declining moral standards, yelling Stop. They lost whatever right they had to play that role when they got behind Trump, not only acquiescing in the culture of shamelessness but also savoring its fruits. Among them: Never being beholden to what they said or wrote yesterday. Never holding themselves to the standards they demand of others. Never having to say they are sorry. Trump-supporting conservatives — the self-aware ones, at least — justify this bargain as a price worth paying in order to wage ideological combat against the hypostatized evil left. In fact it only makes them enablers in the degraded culture they once deplored. What Chicago prosecutor Kim Foxx is to Smollett, they are to Trump. Not everyone has to succumb to this culture. In his New Yorker essay, Van Doren revealed that in the early 1990s he was offered $100,000 by the makers of “Quiz Show” to serve as a “guarantee of [the film’s] truthfulness.” Van Doren admits he was tempted, but at the urging of his wife he turned the money down. Even after more than 30 years of suffering and contrition, he chose not to profit from a dishonorable deed. Van Doren died redeemed. Rest in peace. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Bret L. Stephens has been an Opinion columnist with The Times since April 2017. He won a Pulitzer Prize for commentary at The Wall Street Journal in 2013 and was previously editor in chief of The Jerusalem Post.  @BretStephensNYT • Facebook 

Supported by Charles Van Doren’s death marks the end of an era. By Bret Stephens Opinion Columnist I had never heard of Charles Van Doren until, in college, I saw the movie “Quiz Show,” and I probably never thought of him again until I read his obituary this week in The Times. Van Doren, if you didn’t know, was the polished scion of a distinguished American literary family, who in the 1950s was a champion contestant on the NBC show “Twenty-One,” dazzling millions of viewers with what looked like preternatural erudition. But the show had been rigged, the contestants coached, their fates determined by the need of the producers to manufacture drama and maintain ratings. When the truth came out, America was scandalized and Van Doren nearly ruined. “I would give almost anything I have to reverse the course of my life in the last three years,” he told a congressional committee in 1959, after finally coming clean about what he had done (along with other contestants). He spent the remainder of his 93 years living a decidedly quiet and unblemished life. How quaint. Had Van Doren come along a few decades later, there would have been no big scandal in fabricating reality and no great shame in participating in it. The lines between fame and infamy would have blurred, and both could be monetized. Personal disgrace might have been explained away as a form of victimization by a greedy corporation, an unloving parent, systemic social forces — or with the claim, possibly true, that nearly everybody does it. The contrast between then and now is worth pondering in the Age of Trump — an age whose signature feature isn’t populism or nationalism or any other –ism widely attached to the president. It’s the attempted annihilation of shame. Shame is neither sin nor folly. It’s what people are supposed to feel in the commission, recollection or exposure of sin and folly. In days bygone, the prescribed method for avoiding shame was behaving well. Or, if it couldn’t be avoided, feeling deep remorse and performing some sort of penance. By contrast, the Trumpian method for avoiding shame is not giving a damn. Spurious bone-spur draft deferment? Shrug. Fraudulent business and charitable practices? Snigger. Outrageous personal invective? Sneer. Inhumane treatment of children at the border? Snarl. Hush-money payoffs to porn-star and centerfold mistresses? Stud! The annihilation of shame requires two things. First, nerve: Whatever else might be said about Trump, it takes immense brass to lie as frequently and flagrantly as he does without apparently triggering any kind of internal emotional crisis. Ordinary mortals tend to blush when caught out in some kind of mischief. Trump smirks. But it also takes public acquiescence. Van Doren might have succeeded in quickly burying his shame if the revelation of his cheating hadn’t led to tidal waves of dismay and disdain. The United States of the 1950s wasn’t yet the land of premature exoneration. A half-century after the scandal, when Van Doren finally wrote about his experiences in an essay for The New Yorker, he confessed, “It’s been hard to get away, partly because the man who cheated on ‘Twenty-One’ is still part of me.” Will the cheaters of today — think of Jussie Smollett or Felicity Huffman — feel the same kind of self-reproach in 10 or 20 years? Hard to say, though I doubt it. Smollett, who was accused of staging a hate crime against himself, expressed no contrition after all the charges against him were curiously dropped and his court file sealed. Huffman did better by pleading guilty in the college-admissions cheating scandal, and will surely have to lay low for a while. But a comeback story — polished, perhaps, by a teary TV confessional and a tastefully publicized journey of self-discovery — surely awaits her, and maybe Smollett, too. It was once the useful role of conservatives to resist these sorts of trends — to stand athwart declining moral standards, yelling Stop. They lost whatever right they had to play that role when they got behind Trump, not only acquiescing in the culture of shamelessness but also savoring its fruits. Among them: Never being beholden to what they said or wrote yesterday. Never holding themselves to the standards they demand of others. Never having to say they are sorry. Trump-supporting conservatives — the self-aware ones, at least — justify this bargain as a price worth paying in order to wage ideological combat against the hypostatized evil left. In fact it only makes them enablers in the degraded culture they once deplored. What Chicago prosecutor Kim Foxx is to Smollett, they are to Trump. Not everyone has to succumb to this culture. In his New Yorker essay, Van Doren revealed that in the early 1990s he was offered $100,000 by the makers of “Quiz Show” to serve as a “guarantee of [the film’s] truthfulness.” Van Doren admits he was tempted, but at the urging of his wife he turned the money down. Even after more than 30 years of suffering and contrition, he chose not to profit from a dishonorable deed. Van Doren died redeemed. Rest in peace. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Bret L. Stephens has been an Opinion columnist with The Times since April 2017. He won a Pulitzer Prize for commentary at The Wall Street Journal in 2013 and was previously editor in chief of The Jerusalem Post.  @BretStephensNYT • Facebook Supported by The president is not only reading the markets as a daily measure of his success, he is also shaping policy to keep prices high.  By Ruchir Sharma Mr. Sharma, the author of “The Rise and Fall of Nations: Forces of Change in the Post-Crisis World,” is a contributing opinion writer. From Day 1 in the Oval Office, President Trump has shown a unique obsession with the financial markets, tweeting that high stock prices proved he was making America great again. But a new chapter opened in October, when the markets dropped sharply, and Mr. Trump began making critical presidential decisions with an eye to pushing stock prices back up. As soon as the markets turned downward, Mr. Trump softened his hard line on Chinese trade practices, trying to quiet market fears that his tariff threats against Beijing would start a global trade war. Then he started attacking the United States Federal Reserve, saying its interest rate policies were undermining stock prices, and followed with rants about firing the chairman of the Fed, Jerome Powell.  And last week, Axios quoted a source who had spoken to Mr. Trump as saying that the president had delayed his threat to close the Mexico border out of concern over how the markets would react. For Mr. Trump to base serious decisions about trade, monetary policy and immigration on market mood swings ensures that the zany uncertainty of his tenure will continue to reach new heights. Mr. Trump’s sudden moderation on China was particularly striking because, in an otherwise mercurial career, he had remained consistent on trade. Going back to the 1980s, Mr. Trump has been accusing Asian competitors in particular of using unfair trade deals to steal America’s lunch. Moreover, Mr. Trump has been drawing broad support for his hard line on trade with China, even among his critics in Congress and in Europe. Many of them agreed that China was using state power to dominate the global information technology industry, exclude American companies from its domestic market and steal intellectual property. They were openly rooting for Mr. Trump to win on this issue, and to cut a tough deal. Yet when the markets fell on fear of a United States-China trade war, Mr. Trump began to retreat. After taking office, his tweets on China attacked it for militarism, currency manipulation and unfair trade practices right up until the markets dropped in October. Mr. Trump’s first conciliatory tweet came on Nov. 1, describing a pleasant chat about trade with President Xi Jinping, and he has been talking up their “incredible relationship” and progress in trade talks since. By last month, amid reports that Trump advisers were calculating how big of a “stock market pop” they could expect from a trade deal, Washington insiders from both parties were worrying aloud that the president might accept any deal China would sign. Mr. Trump, meanwhile, was executing a similar about-face on the Fed. As a candidate, he had attacked the central bank for keeping rates so low and inflating “a big fat ugly bubble” in the markets. Once he took office, Mr. Trump stopped tweeting attacks on the Fed, until November, when he began to blame the central bank for dampening market spirits with high interest rates. In recent weeks, Mr. Trump has not only fulminated about replacing Mr. Powell, he has also started considering market-friendly loyalists for seats on the Fed board of governors. Mr. Trump’s most recent market-driven U-turn appears to have come on immigration, another subject near and dear to him. So far, the stock markets have not reacted negatively to his aggressive efforts to secure funding for a border wall, including the government shutdown and the declaration of a national emergency. Nonetheless, when Mr. Trump backed off on his threat to close the southern border, the Axios source explained the president’s decision this way: “It’s the markets. Closing the border, the markets would plummet.” No president has shown this kind of deference. Jimmy Carter, Ronald Reagan and both Bushes mentioned the stock markets rarely and cautiously. Bill Clinton counseled against responding to their gyrations. In early 2009, Barack Obama suggested it was a good time to buy battered American stocks and was proved right when the markets hit bottom a week later. But Mr. Obama was criticized for acting as “stock picker in chief” and did not talk about stock prices again as president. Mr. Trump is not only reading the markets as a daily measure of his success, he is also shaping policy to keep prices high. And recent market rises have rewarded him for it. After Mr. Trump turned conciliatory on China, the Fed announced it was suspending further rate increases, and stocks began climbing back toward record highs. So who’s in charge: Mr. Trump or the markets? One critical test is the United States-China trade talks, which are set to wrap up soon in a meeting between Mr. Trump and Mr. Xi. A tough agreement would help confirm that markets aren’t completely dictating policy. Even then, Mr. Trump’s willingness to bend policy to please the markets is now clear — and it’s risky. In recent years the stock markets have grown larger than the economy, and they are now big enough to take the economy down with them when they deflate. Policymakers are wary of poking this beast, but feeding it will only make the markets larger and more demanding. Ruchir Sharma, a contributing opinion writer, is chief global strategist at Morgan Stanley Investment Management. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported by The president is not only reading the markets as a daily measure of his success, he is also shaping policy to keep prices high.  By Ruchir Sharma Mr. Sharma, the author of “The Rise and Fall of Nations: Forces of Change in the Post-Crisis World,” is a contributing opinion writer. From Day 1 in the Oval Office, President Trump has shown a unique obsession with the financial markets, tweeting that high stock prices proved he was making America great again. But a new chapter opened in October, when the markets dropped sharply, and Mr. Trump began making critical presidential decisions with an eye to pushing stock prices back up. As soon as the markets turned downward, Mr. Trump softened his hard line on Chinese trade practices, trying to quiet market fears that his tariff threats against Beijing would start a global trade war. Then he started attacking the United States Federal Reserve, saying its interest rate policies were undermining stock prices, and followed with rants about firing the chairman of the Fed, Jerome Powell.  And last week, Axios quoted a source who had spoken to Mr. Trump as saying that the president had delayed his threat to close the Mexico border out of concern over how the markets would react. For Mr. Trump to base serious decisions about trade, monetary policy and immigration on market mood swings ensures that the zany uncertainty of his tenure will continue to reach new heights. Mr. Trump’s sudden moderation on China was particularly striking because, in an otherwise mercurial career, he had remained consistent on trade. Going back to the 1980s, Mr. Trump has been accusing Asian competitors in particular of using unfair trade deals to steal America’s lunch. Moreover, Mr. Trump has been drawing broad support for his hard line on trade with China, even among his critics in Congress and in Europe. Many of them agreed that China was using state power to dominate the global information technology industry, exclude American companies from its domestic market and steal intellectual property. They were openly rooting for Mr. Trump to win on this issue, and to cut a tough deal. Yet when the markets fell on fear of a United States-China trade war, Mr. Trump began to retreat. After taking office, his tweets on China attacked it for militarism, currency manipulation and unfair trade practices right up until the markets dropped in October. Mr. Trump’s first conciliatory tweet came on Nov. 1, describing a pleasant chat about trade with President Xi Jinping, and he has been talking up their “incredible relationship” and progress in trade talks since. By last month, amid reports that Trump advisers were calculating how big of a “stock market pop” they could expect from a trade deal, Washington insiders from both parties were worrying aloud that the president might accept any deal China would sign. Mr. Trump, meanwhile, was executing a similar about-face on the Fed. As a candidate, he had attacked the central bank for keeping rates so low and inflating “a big fat ugly bubble” in the markets. Once he took office, Mr. Trump stopped tweeting attacks on the Fed, until November, when he began to blame the central bank for dampening market spirits with high interest rates. In recent weeks, Mr. Trump has not only fulminated about replacing Mr. Powell, he has also started considering market-friendly loyalists for seats on the Fed board of governors. Mr. Trump’s most recent market-driven U-turn appears to have come on immigration, another subject near and dear to him. So far, the stock markets have not reacted negatively to his aggressive efforts to secure funding for a border wall, including the government shutdown and the declaration of a national emergency. Nonetheless, when Mr. Trump backed off on his threat to close the southern border, the Axios source explained the president’s decision this way: “It’s the markets. Closing the border, the markets would plummet.” No president has shown this kind of deference. Jimmy Carter, Ronald Reagan and both Bushes mentioned the stock markets rarely and cautiously. Bill Clinton counseled against responding to their gyrations. In early 2009, Barack Obama suggested it was a good time to buy battered American stocks and was proved right when the markets hit bottom a week later. But Mr. Obama was criticized for acting as “stock picker in chief” and did not talk about stock prices again as president. Mr. Trump is not only reading the markets as a daily measure of his success, he is also shaping policy to keep prices high. And recent market rises have rewarded him for it. After Mr. Trump turned conciliatory on China, the Fed announced it was suspending further rate increases, and stocks began climbing back toward record highs. So who’s in charge: Mr. Trump or the markets? One critical test is the United States-China trade talks, which are set to wrap up soon in a meeting between Mr. Trump and Mr. Xi. A tough agreement would help confirm that markets aren’t completely dictating policy. Even then, Mr. Trump’s willingness to bend policy to please the markets is now clear — and it’s risky. In recent years the stock markets have grown larger than the economy, and they are now big enough to take the economy down with them when they deflate. Policymakers are wary of poking this beast, but feeding it will only make the markets larger and more demanding. Ruchir Sharma, a contributing opinion writer, is chief global strategist at Morgan Stanley Investment Management. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Supported by Trust the pork producers; fear the wind turbines. By Paul Krugman Opinion Columnist There’s a lot we don’t know about the legacy Donald Trump will leave behind. And it is, of course, hugely important what happens in the 2020 election. But one thing seems sure: Even if he’s a one-term president, Trump will have caused, directly or indirectly, the premature deaths of a large number of Americans. Some of those deaths will come at the hands of right-wing, white nationalist extremists, who are a rapidly growing threat, partly because they feel empowered by a president who calls them “very fine people.” Some will come from failures of governance, like the inadequate response to Hurricane Maria, which surely contributed to the high death toll in Puerto Rico. (Reminder: Puerto Ricans are U.S. citizens.) Some will come from the administration’s continuing efforts to sabotage Obamacare, which have failed to kill health reform but have stalled the decline in the number of uninsured, meaning that many people still aren’t getting the health care they need. Of course, if Trump gets his way and eliminates Obamacare altogether, things on this front will get much, much worse. But the biggest death toll is likely to come from Trump’s agenda of deregulation — or maybe we should call it “deregulation,” because his administration is curiously selective about which industries it wants to leave alone. Consider two recent events that help capture the deadly strangeness of what’s going on. One is the administration’s plan for hog plants to take over much of the federal responsibility for food safety inspections. And why not? It’s not as if we’ve seen safety problems arise from self-regulation in, say, the aircraft industry, have we? Or as if we ever experience major outbreaks of food-borne illness? Or as if there was a reason the U.S. government stepped in to regulate meatpacking in the first place? Now, you could see the Trump administration’s willingness to trust the meat industry to keep our meat safe as part of an overall attack on government regulation, a willingness to trust profit-making businesses to do the right thing and let the market rule. And there’s something to that, but it’s not the whole story, as illustrated by another event: Trump’s declaration the other day that wind turbines cause cancer. Now, you could put this down to personal derangement: Trump has had an irrational hatred for wind power ever since he failed to prevent construction of a wind farm near his Scottish golf course. And Trump seems deranged and irrational on so many issues that one more bizarre claim hardly seems to matter. But there’s more to this than just another Trumpism. After all, we normally think of Republicans in general, and Trump in particular, as people who minimize or deny the “negative externalities” imposed by some business activities — the uncompensated costs they impose on other people or businesses. For example, the Trump administration wants to roll back rules that limit emissions of mercury from power plants. And in pursuit of that goal, it wants to prevent the Environmental Protection Agency from taking account of many of the benefits from reduced mercury emissions, such as an associated reduction in nitrogen oxide. But when it comes to renewable energy, Trump and company are suddenly very worried about supposed negative side effects, which generally exist only in their imagination. Last year the administration floated a proposal that would have forced the operators of electricity grids to subsidize coal and nuclear energy. The supposed rationale was that new sources were threatening to destabilize those grids — but the grid operators themselves denied that this was the case. So it’s deregulation for some, but dire warnings about imaginary threats for others. What’s going on? Part of the answer is, follow the money. Political contributions from the meat-processing industry overwhelmingly favor Republicans. Coal mining supports the G.O.P. almost exclusively. Alternative energy, on the other hand, generally favors Democrats. There are probably other things, too. If you’re a party that wishes we could go back to the 1950s (but without the 91 percent top tax rate), you’re going to have a hard time accepting the reality that hippie-dippy, unmanly things like wind and solar power are becoming ever more cost-competitive. Whatever the drivers of Trump policy, the fact, as I said, is that it will kill people. Wind turbines don’t cause cancer, but coal-burning power plants do — along with many other ailments. The Trump administration’s own estimates indicate that its relaxation of coal pollution rules will kill more than 1,000 Americans every year. If the administration gets to implement its full agenda — not just deregulation of many industries, but discrimination against industries it doesn’t like, such as renewable energy — the toll will be much higher. So if you eat meat — or, for that matter, drink water or breathe air — there’s a real sense in which Donald Trump is trying to kill you. And even if he’s turned out of office next year, for many Americans it will be too late. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Paul Krugman has been an Opinion columnist since 2000 and is also a Distinguished Professor at the City University of New York Graduate Center. He won the 2008 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences for his work on international trade and economic geography.  @PaulKrugman 

Supported by Trust the pork producers; fear the wind turbines. By Paul Krugman Opinion Columnist There’s a lot we don’t know about the legacy Donald Trump will leave behind. And it is, of course, hugely important what happens in the 2020 election. But one thing seems sure: Even if he’s a one-term president, Trump will have caused, directly or indirectly, the premature deaths of a large number of Americans. Some of those deaths will come at the hands of right-wing, white nationalist extremists, who are a rapidly growing threat, partly because they feel empowered by a president who calls them “very fine people.” Some will come from failures of governance, like the inadequate response to Hurricane Maria, which surely contributed to the high death toll in Puerto Rico. (Reminder: Puerto Ricans are U.S. citizens.) Some will come from the administration’s continuing efforts to sabotage Obamacare, which have failed to kill health reform but have stalled the decline in the number of uninsured, meaning that many people still aren’t getting the health care they need. Of course, if Trump gets his way and eliminates Obamacare altogether, things on this front will get much, much worse. But the biggest death toll is likely to come from Trump’s agenda of deregulation — or maybe we should call it “deregulation,” because his administration is curiously selective about which industries it wants to leave alone. Consider two recent events that help capture the deadly strangeness of what’s going on. One is the administration’s plan for hog plants to take over much of the federal responsibility for food safety inspections. And why not? It’s not as if we’ve seen safety problems arise from self-regulation in, say, the aircraft industry, have we? Or as if we ever experience major outbreaks of food-borne illness? Or as if there was a reason the U.S. government stepped in to regulate meatpacking in the first place? Now, you could see the Trump administration’s willingness to trust the meat industry to keep our meat safe as part of an overall attack on government regulation, a willingness to trust profit-making businesses to do the right thing and let the market rule. And there’s something to that, but it’s not the whole story, as illustrated by another event: Trump’s declaration the other day that wind turbines cause cancer. Now, you could put this down to personal derangement: Trump has had an irrational hatred for wind power ever since he failed to prevent construction of a wind farm near his Scottish golf course. And Trump seems deranged and irrational on so many issues that one more bizarre claim hardly seems to matter. But there’s more to this than just another Trumpism. After all, we normally think of Republicans in general, and Trump in particular, as people who minimize or deny the “negative externalities” imposed by some business activities — the uncompensated costs they impose on other people or businesses. For example, the Trump administration wants to roll back rules that limit emissions of mercury from power plants. And in pursuit of that goal, it wants to prevent the Environmental Protection Agency from taking account of many of the benefits from reduced mercury emissions, such as an associated reduction in nitrogen oxide. But when it comes to renewable energy, Trump and company are suddenly very worried about supposed negative side effects, which generally exist only in their imagination. Last year the administration floated a proposal that would have forced the operators of electricity grids to subsidize coal and nuclear energy. The supposed rationale was that new sources were threatening to destabilize those grids — but the grid operators themselves denied that this was the case. So it’s deregulation for some, but dire warnings about imaginary threats for others. What’s going on? Part of the answer is, follow the money. Political contributions from the meat-processing industry overwhelmingly favor Republicans. Coal mining supports the G.O.P. almost exclusively. Alternative energy, on the other hand, generally favors Democrats. There are probably other things, too. If you’re a party that wishes we could go back to the 1950s (but without the 91 percent top tax rate), you’re going to have a hard time accepting the reality that hippie-dippy, unmanly things like wind and solar power are becoming ever more cost-competitive. Whatever the drivers of Trump policy, the fact, as I said, is that it will kill people. Wind turbines don’t cause cancer, but coal-burning power plants do — along with many other ailments. The Trump administration’s own estimates indicate that its relaxation of coal pollution rules will kill more than 1,000 Americans every year. If the administration gets to implement its full agenda — not just deregulation of many industries, but discrimination against industries it doesn’t like, such as renewable energy — the toll will be much higher. So if you eat meat — or, for that matter, drink water or breathe air — there’s a real sense in which Donald Trump is trying to kill you. And even if he’s turned out of office next year, for many Americans it will be too late. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Paul Krugman has been an Opinion columnist since 2000 and is also a Distinguished Professor at the City University of New York Graduate Center. He won the 2008 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences for his work on international trade and economic geography.  @PaulKrugman Supported by In politics, as in life, there are Fixers and there are Punishers. No question which the president is. By Michelle Cottle Ms. Cottle is a member of the editorial board.  Once more, President Trump stands ready to dazzle with his willingness to sacrifice the national interest on the altar of his political whims. For days, the president has been indulging in one of his made-for-TV teasers by threatening to shut down the United States-Mexico border. Not beef up the Border Patrol. Not tighten security at ports of entry. Just hang up a “Closed” sign and call it a day. As the White House tells it, the failures of Mexico and congressional Democrats to stop illegal crossings have left the president no choice: The influx of drugs, criminals and other undesirables has reached the point where drastic action is required. Mr. Trump is nothing if not a man of drastic action, or at least ominous vows of drastic action. Dismayed critics have rushed to object that shutting the border will do nothing to solve the humanitarian strains caused by the flood of migrant families from Central America — that such a move will, in fact, make things only worse by disrupting the legal flow of people and commerce, wreaking social and economic havoc. Such warnings are spot on. They also miss the point. In threatening to shut down the border, Mr. Trump isn’t looking to solve a crisis. His primary aim is to make life unpleasant for those who have crossed him — or simply had the misfortune to get in his way. In politics, as in life, there are Fixers and there are Punishers. Fixers shine a light on problems or injustices and work to find ways to resolve them. Theirs is a constructive vision, one that values cooperation and pragmatism and getting stuff done. Punishers, too, are about spotlighting problems, a skill at which they may excel even more than Fixers. But Punishers aren’t looking to make things right so much as to find someone to blame — and chasten — for the perceived wrongs. Neither party holds a monopoly on either category. Charlie Baker, the Republican governor of Massachusetts, is a Fixer. Ilhan Omar, the freshman Democratic House member from Minnesota, is fast establishing herself as a Punisher. President Barack Obama was a Fixer, while the entire House Freedom Caucus sprang from the conviction that anyone willing to work with Mr. Obama should be cast into the abyss. Punished with extreme prejudice, as it were. Punishers have their charms and their purpose, and whether you see them as avenging angels or vengeful demagogues often depends on whether you share their particular worldview. But every now and again, along comes a Punisher so wanton that he rattles even members of his own team. Mr. Trump is one of this rare breed. The desire to crush those who displease him is a defining characteristic of this president. When challenged, his impulse is to lash out — preferably with personal, degrading insults. This has been on most vivid display with the myriad investigations into sketchy presidential behavior, but it also has been a hallmark of Mr. Trump’s approach to key policy issues. Border security, health care, trade — you name the debate, Mr. Trump’s answer is to stake out his position, vowing pain and regret for those who do not embrace it. On Sunday, the acting White House chief of staff, Mick Mulvaney, went on television to rub Democrats’ noses in the growing border tumult and defend the president’s closure threat. “We hate to say we told you so,” he said. “We need border security, and we’re going to do the best we can with what we have.” He also dismissed questions about the wisdom of Mr. Trump’s plan to end financial aid to El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras. Complaining about the troubled nations’ failure to stop their people from fleeing north, Mr. Mulvaney brushed off administration experts who have cautioned that cutting aid would further destabilize the countries, likely worsening the migrant crisis. Translation: Fine. No one will give us a border wall. We’ll show you the meaning of chaos. The president’s fans cheer his pugilism, as though he was bravely defending himself — and them — against big, bad bullies. But all too often, the price is paid by the innocent and vulnerable: migrant children snatched from their parents at the border, federal workers thrown into financial turmoil by the government shutdown, farm workers and manufacturers caught up in the trade war, the millions of Americans who stand to lose their health insurance if the administration keeps laboring to kill Obamacare.  For Mr. Trump, anyone who stands between him and his objective becomes collateral damage. And pity those considered part of an unfriendly demographic, such as the people of Puerto Rico, whom the president dismisses as a tool of the Democratic Party and mistreats accordingly. As the Senate has worked this week to hash out a comprehensive disaster-relief package, Mr. Trump’s contribution has been to fire off a series of obnoxious, dishonest tweets charging that “corrupt or incompetent” island officials have wasted epic levels of relief funding and are now hot for Democrats “to give them more, taking dollars away from our Farmers and so many others. Disgraceful!” A White House spokesman, Hogan Gidley, subsequently appeared on TV with a spirited defense of his boss’s broadside against “that country.”  As for those who actively defy the president, the goal is not simply to punish them for a single transgression but to discourage them from future rebellions. Deliver a painful enough lesson, and everyone will fall into line.  The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported by In politics, as in life, there are Fixers and there are Punishers. No question which the president is. By Michelle Cottle Ms. Cottle is a member of the editorial board.  Once more, President Trump stands ready to dazzle with his willingness to sacrifice the national interest on the altar of his political whims. For days, the president has been indulging in one of his made-for-TV teasers by threatening to shut down the United States-Mexico border. Not beef up the Border Patrol. Not tighten security at ports of entry. Just hang up a “Closed” sign and call it a day. As the White House tells it, the failures of Mexico and congressional Democrats to stop illegal crossings have left the president no choice: The influx of drugs, criminals and other undesirables has reached the point where drastic action is required. Mr. Trump is nothing if not a man of drastic action, or at least ominous vows of drastic action. Dismayed critics have rushed to object that shutting the border will do nothing to solve the humanitarian strains caused by the flood of migrant families from Central America — that such a move will, in fact, make things only worse by disrupting the legal flow of people and commerce, wreaking social and economic havoc. Such warnings are spot on. They also miss the point. In threatening to shut down the border, Mr. Trump isn’t looking to solve a crisis. His primary aim is to make life unpleasant for those who have crossed him — or simply had the misfortune to get in his way. In politics, as in life, there are Fixers and there are Punishers. Fixers shine a light on problems or injustices and work to find ways to resolve them. Theirs is a constructive vision, one that values cooperation and pragmatism and getting stuff done. Punishers, too, are about spotlighting problems, a skill at which they may excel even more than Fixers. But Punishers aren’t looking to make things right so much as to find someone to blame — and chasten — for the perceived wrongs. Neither party holds a monopoly on either category. Charlie Baker, the Republican governor of Massachusetts, is a Fixer. Ilhan Omar, the freshman Democratic House member from Minnesota, is fast establishing herself as a Punisher. President Barack Obama was a Fixer, while the entire House Freedom Caucus sprang from the conviction that anyone willing to work with Mr. Obama should be cast into the abyss. Punished with extreme prejudice, as it were. Punishers have their charms and their purpose, and whether you see them as avenging angels or vengeful demagogues often depends on whether you share their particular worldview. But every now and again, along comes a Punisher so wanton that he rattles even members of his own team. Mr. Trump is one of this rare breed. The desire to crush those who displease him is a defining characteristic of this president. When challenged, his impulse is to lash out — preferably with personal, degrading insults. This has been on most vivid display with the myriad investigations into sketchy presidential behavior, but it also has been a hallmark of Mr. Trump’s approach to key policy issues. Border security, health care, trade — you name the debate, Mr. Trump’s answer is to stake out his position, vowing pain and regret for those who do not embrace it. On Sunday, the acting White House chief of staff, Mick Mulvaney, went on television to rub Democrats’ noses in the growing border tumult and defend the president’s closure threat. “We hate to say we told you so,” he said. “We need border security, and we’re going to do the best we can with what we have.” He also dismissed questions about the wisdom of Mr. Trump’s plan to end financial aid to El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras. Complaining about the troubled nations’ failure to stop their people from fleeing north, Mr. Mulvaney brushed off administration experts who have cautioned that cutting aid would further destabilize the countries, likely worsening the migrant crisis. Translation: Fine. No one will give us a border wall. We’ll show you the meaning of chaos. The president’s fans cheer his pugilism, as though he was bravely defending himself — and them — against big, bad bullies. But all too often, the price is paid by the innocent and vulnerable: migrant children snatched from their parents at the border, federal workers thrown into financial turmoil by the government shutdown, farm workers and manufacturers caught up in the trade war, the millions of Americans who stand to lose their health insurance if the administration keeps laboring to kill Obamacare.  For Mr. Trump, anyone who stands between him and his objective becomes collateral damage. And pity those considered part of an unfriendly demographic, such as the people of Puerto Rico, whom the president dismisses as a tool of the Democratic Party and mistreats accordingly. As the Senate has worked this week to hash out a comprehensive disaster-relief package, Mr. Trump’s contribution has been to fire off a series of obnoxious, dishonest tweets charging that “corrupt or incompetent” island officials have wasted epic levels of relief funding and are now hot for Democrats “to give them more, taking dollars away from our Farmers and so many others. Disgraceful!” A White House spokesman, Hogan Gidley, subsequently appeared on TV with a spirited defense of his boss’s broadside against “that country.”  As for those who actively defy the president, the goal is not simply to punish them for a single transgression but to discourage them from future rebellions. Deliver a painful enough lesson, and everyone will fall into line.  The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Supported by Of course a man has the right to change his mind … By Gail Collins Opinion Columnist It’s only a matter of time before some state passes a law prohibiting women from getting abortions after the second week of pregnancy. Really, that’s the way things seem to be going. Right now, there’s a big drive to set the limit at around six weeks. If you are a woman who happens to live in Kentucky or Mississippi, your state lawmakers seem to believe you are so in tune with your own personal biology that you will not only realize you’re pregnant within six weeks, but could also find the time to arrange an abortion, even if there’s only one abortion clinic in the entire state. Although obviously the real plan is to keep you pregnant, whether you like it or not. Six-week bills — they’re tied to the arrival of the first fetal heartbeat — are moving through legislatures in about a dozen states. Some are supposed to slumber in a sort of legal cocoon until the moment — looking at you, Justice Kavanaugh! — when the Supreme Court overturns Roe v. Wade. Dr. Leana Wen, president of Planned Parenthood, counts over 250 bills to ban or restrict abortion that were introduced in state legislatures this year — a jump of about 63 percent compared with last year. “We know this is a direct response to Brett Kavanaugh being on the Supreme Court.” Lots of these eager legislators are hoping that their anti-abortion bill will spark a suit that makes their state the one to deliver a case to Kavanaugh and his colleagues. Maybe Georgia was trying to attract some special attention when it passed a law imposing up to 10 years in prison on any woman who terminates a pregnancy after a heartbeat is detected. Certainly hard to ignore. There doesn’t seem to be any punishment for the father. This gives us a chance to recall that when Donald Trump was running for president, at one point he seemed to be supporting the idea of jail time for women who got abortions. But when the interviewer asked about the man, Trump speedily responded, “I would say no.” Just for the record, back in 1999, on “Meet the Press,” Trump referred to himself as pro-choice four times. (“I am very pro-choice in every respect.”) But he was only, what — 53? Still evolving. Trump has, of course, remade himself into an anti-abortion ideologue who nominates Supreme Court justices of like mind. In response, in state capitols around the country, legislators are comparing abortion to the Holocaust (Alabama), calling it “slaughter” (Tennessee) and referring to the pregnant woman as a “host body” (Florida). There doesn’t seem to be time to mention the idea of helping women avoid pregnancy by expanding family planning services. Consider Missouri, where the legislature is currently working on one of those six-week bills. Missouri has been at war with Planned Parenthood for years because Planned Parenthood clinics advise pregnant women that there is an abortion option. No consideration of all the health services and counseling the clinics offer, at a time when sexually transmitted diseases are soaring in the state. Pamela Merritt of the abortion access group Reproaction complains that while the state is fighting Planned Parenthood, it funnels millions of dollars into what she calls “fake clinics” that don’t do anything more than dissuade women with unwanted pregnancies from having an abortion. “The maternal mortality is 50 percent higher than the rest of the country and rising,” said Dr. Wen, who feels a special affinity to the state, where she went to medical school. When it comes to thoughtful planning, the Trump administration seems to be on the same wavelength. It awarded $450,000 to the Obria Group, which provides family planning services that include just about everything except, um, contraception. “They are so vehemently anti-birth control,” said Alice Huling, a lawyer for Campaign for Accountability, a group that has been in court trying to get access to information on Obria’s programs. Not only does Obria avoid the pill, it also doesn’t provide patients with IUDs or even condoms. Here’s the thing: If you want to claim the moral high ground in a fight over terminating pregnancy, you have to support effective family planning. Otherwise you’re either an appalling hypocrite or an elected official attempting to impose your religion on Americans of different faiths. What’s truly going on here, people, is a war against sex without procreation. If the people declaring they’re “pro-life” in legislatures around the country were only concerned about stopping abortion, they’d be handing out vouchers for free contraceptives at every street corner. Some religions, notably including the Catholic Church, believe sex is sinful if it precludes the possibility of producing a baby. The First Amendment gives the faithful the right to try to convince women that their way is God’s way. But it doesn’t allow them to pass laws that make the rest of the country follow their religious tenets. There ought to be a way for people of good will to join hands and work together to make all pregnancies wanted pregnancies. There are plenty of good strategies: Effective sex education in the schools. Affordable family planning services for all. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Gail Collins is an Op-Ed columnist and a former member of the editorial board, and was the first woman to serve as the Times editorial page editor, from 2001 to 2007.  @GailCollins • Facebook 

Supported by Of course a man has the right to change his mind … By Gail Collins Opinion Columnist It’s only a matter of time before some state passes a law prohibiting women from getting abortions after the second week of pregnancy. Really, that’s the way things seem to be going. Right now, there’s a big drive to set the limit at around six weeks. If you are a woman who happens to live in Kentucky or Mississippi, your state lawmakers seem to believe you are so in tune with your own personal biology that you will not only realize you’re pregnant within six weeks, but could also find the time to arrange an abortion, even if there’s only one abortion clinic in the entire state. Although obviously the real plan is to keep you pregnant, whether you like it or not. Six-week bills — they’re tied to the arrival of the first fetal heartbeat — are moving through legislatures in about a dozen states. Some are supposed to slumber in a sort of legal cocoon until the moment — looking at you, Justice Kavanaugh! — when the Supreme Court overturns Roe v. Wade. Dr. Leana Wen, president of Planned Parenthood, counts over 250 bills to ban or restrict abortion that were introduced in state legislatures this year — a jump of about 63 percent compared with last year. “We know this is a direct response to Brett Kavanaugh being on the Supreme Court.” Lots of these eager legislators are hoping that their anti-abortion bill will spark a suit that makes their state the one to deliver a case to Kavanaugh and his colleagues. Maybe Georgia was trying to attract some special attention when it passed a law imposing up to 10 years in prison on any woman who terminates a pregnancy after a heartbeat is detected. Certainly hard to ignore. There doesn’t seem to be any punishment for the father. This gives us a chance to recall that when Donald Trump was running for president, at one point he seemed to be supporting the idea of jail time for women who got abortions. But when the interviewer asked about the man, Trump speedily responded, “I would say no.” Just for the record, back in 1999, on “Meet the Press,” Trump referred to himself as pro-choice four times. (“I am very pro-choice in every respect.”) But he was only, what — 53? Still evolving. Trump has, of course, remade himself into an anti-abortion ideologue who nominates Supreme Court justices of like mind. In response, in state capitols around the country, legislators are comparing abortion to the Holocaust (Alabama), calling it “slaughter” (Tennessee) and referring to the pregnant woman as a “host body” (Florida). There doesn’t seem to be time to mention the idea of helping women avoid pregnancy by expanding family planning services. Consider Missouri, where the legislature is currently working on one of those six-week bills. Missouri has been at war with Planned Parenthood for years because Planned Parenthood clinics advise pregnant women that there is an abortion option. No consideration of all the health services and counseling the clinics offer, at a time when sexually transmitted diseases are soaring in the state. Pamela Merritt of the abortion access group Reproaction complains that while the state is fighting Planned Parenthood, it funnels millions of dollars into what she calls “fake clinics” that don’t do anything more than dissuade women with unwanted pregnancies from having an abortion. “The maternal mortality is 50 percent higher than the rest of the country and rising,” said Dr. Wen, who feels a special affinity to the state, where she went to medical school. When it comes to thoughtful planning, the Trump administration seems to be on the same wavelength. It awarded $450,000 to the Obria Group, which provides family planning services that include just about everything except, um, contraception. “They are so vehemently anti-birth control,” said Alice Huling, a lawyer for Campaign for Accountability, a group that has been in court trying to get access to information on Obria’s programs. Not only does Obria avoid the pill, it also doesn’t provide patients with IUDs or even condoms. Here’s the thing: If you want to claim the moral high ground in a fight over terminating pregnancy, you have to support effective family planning. Otherwise you’re either an appalling hypocrite or an elected official attempting to impose your religion on Americans of different faiths. What’s truly going on here, people, is a war against sex without procreation. If the people declaring they’re “pro-life” in legislatures around the country were only concerned about stopping abortion, they’d be handing out vouchers for free contraceptives at every street corner. Some religions, notably including the Catholic Church, believe sex is sinful if it precludes the possibility of producing a baby. The First Amendment gives the faithful the right to try to convince women that their way is God’s way. But it doesn’t allow them to pass laws that make the rest of the country follow their religious tenets. There ought to be a way for people of good will to join hands and work together to make all pregnancies wanted pregnancies. There are plenty of good strategies: Effective sex education in the schools. Affordable family planning services for all. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Gail Collins is an Op-Ed columnist and a former member of the editorial board, and was the first woman to serve as the Times editorial page editor, from 2001 to 2007.  @GailCollins • Facebook Supported by The New New World Business leaders and intellectuals say one of Beijing’s toughest critics could force the country to change. Still needed: voices of support from the inside.  By Li Yuan Donald J. Trump has referred to China as “our enemy.” He has called it “a major threat.” “Remember,” he once wrote on Twitter, “China is not a friend of the United States!”  Some people in China have their own label for the polarizing American president: savior.  At dinner tables, in social media chats and in discreet conversations, some of the country’s intellectual and business elite are half-jokingly, half-seriously cheering on the leader who has built a large part of his political career on China-bashing.  “Only Trump can save China,” goes one quip. Others call him the “chief pressure officer” of China’s reform and opening.  Their semi-serious praise reflects the deepening despair among those in China who fear their country is on the wrong track. An aggressive outsider like President Trump, according to this thinking, can help China find its way again. The Communist Party has become more involved in business, the economy, public discourse and other elements of everyday life. Many of these elite fear that after 40 years of reform and opening up, China is retreating. To make matters worse, nobody at home appears willing or able to fight the trend. President Xi Jinping has become the country’s most powerful leader since Mao Zedong, hurting the chances that internal opposition can push back.  Then came Mr. Trump and his trade war. Among other demands, American negotiators are calling on China to play a smaller role in the country’s economy. They want the Chinese government to stop throwing money at state-controlled companies. They want lower trade barriers and a level playing field for private businesses.  That puts Mr. Trump, oddly, in sync with a number of Chinese intellectuals and business types. Should the Communist Party step back from the economy, their thinking goes, it might have to loosen its tight grip over the rest of society, too. “The trade war is a good thing,” said Zhu Ning, an economist at Tsinghua University in Beijing. “It gives us hope when we’re hopeless.” “The various demands by the U.S. government could force us to carry on with the reforms,” said Tao Jingzhou, a partner at the law firm Dechert’s Beijing office. “There’s a Chinese saying that carrying out a reform is equivalent to a man cutting off his own arm, which is very hard. It might help if someone else forces you to do it.” Even some retired officials have said they believe that the trade war could have positive effects. Long Yongtu, who led the negotiations for China’s entry into the World Trade Organization, said at a forum last month that trade friction could be “a good thing.”  It could be “a healthy pressure that pushes China to move forward,” he said.  The chances that Mr. Trump alone can change China's ways are exceedingly slim. The Communist Party risks looking weak if it agrees to too many of his demands. True reform would have to come from inside.  “We can’t count on the external force to save China,” said Wang Gongquan, a billionaire liberal activist and former venture capitalist. He was among the first group of people who were detained or jailed after the party intensified the crackdown on dissent and civil disobedience six years ago. “Changes will only come,” Mr. Wang added, “when responsible people inside and outside the government push for it together.” Still, the hopes about Mr. Trump acknowledge the role the outside world has played in China’s gradual opening over the past four decades. Since the end of the Cultural Revolution, the Communist Party has largely been a reluctant reformer, often pushed and lured by internal and external forces. Even some in the Trump administration seem to be hoping that internal voices will speak up. In an interview with National Public Radio, Robert Lighthizer, Mr. Trump’s top trade negotiator, was asked about the likelihood that the trade war would lead to changes in China.  “You have to start with the proposition that there are people in China who believe that reform is a good idea,” Mr. Lighthizer said. “And you have to believe that those people are at a very senior level.” The challenge now will be to find those internal voices in a time when dissent can be quickly squelched. “Unfortunately, there’s no force to be joined with in China,” said Liu Suli, a liberal thinker and enthusiastic Trump supporter who founded an independent bookstore in Beijing. “There’s only a pool of stagnant water.” The breadth of support for Mr. Trump in China isn’t clear. Many business leaders dare not speak out for fear of angering the Communist Party.  The talk is hard to miss. The first time I heard the “Only Trump can save China” quip was a few months ago from a self-described apolitical tech entrepreneur in Guangdong Province in southern China. He complained about rising taxes and growing government interference in the economy. He was worried that if his start-up failed, he could end up on a newly created blacklist that would prevent him from taking flights and checking in at some hotels.  This image of Mr. Trump is often at odds with reality. Supporters of his who have long pushed China on human rights are cheering a president who wants to make it harder for migrants fleeing political persecution to find sanctuary in the United States. It’s a strange disconnect to listen to graying activists — educated free thinkers, some of whom have gone to prison for their ideals — put their hopes in a man who openly admires autocrats and calls journalists “the enemy of the people.” Optimists nevertheless point to signs that they say show Mr. Trump is having an impact. Facing both the trade war and a slowdown in growth that began in the middle of last year, China’s leadership has embraced some modest liberalization. The government has promised to cut taxes, ease other burdens on the private sector and give markets a somewhat bigger role in the economy.  “More market-oriented actions are being reconsidered or put back on the table,” said Mr. Zhu, the Tsinghua economist. “In this sense, the trade war is helping China’s reform.” But there’s little evidence that the leadership is easing its grip in a lasting way. The few business-friendly gestures are reactive rather than proactive. In other words, there hasn’t been any fundamental change in the leadership’s thinking. The party must control, as Mr. Xi has said, “all tasks.” Some Chinese supporters of Mr. Trump, particularly dissidents or those living in exile, believe that he plans something bigger: regime change. Liu Junning, a pro-democracy dissident in Beijing, pointed to Vice President Mike Pence’s stern speech in October in which he accused China of numerous offenses over the years. Mr. Liu also pointed to Venezuela, where the Trump administration has pushed for new leadership.  In part, this group believes past presidents were too soft on China’s Communist Party. But they also cite the patina of toughness that Mr. Trump accumulated in his pre-political days. Mr. Liu cited Mr. Trump’s book “The Art of the Deal” and his reality TV show, “The Apprentice.” “Trump’s approach is that he gives you a task and he expects you to get it done. Otherwise, you’re fired,” Mr. Liu said, alluding to the reality show. “He can be very tough.” How tough he will be about fixing China’s economy still isn’t clear. In public comments, Mr. Trump has focused on getting China to buy more American goods. His advisers have said he will press for economic reforms, but any pledge by China to cut subsidies to state-owned companies or favored industries would be difficult to verify, much less enforce.  “I don’t think helping China to reform is Trump’s main political goal,” Mr. Zhu said. “He may just want something to tweet about.”

Supported by The New New World Business leaders and intellectuals say one of Beijing’s toughest critics could force the country to change. Still needed: voices of support from the inside.  By Li Yuan Donald J. Trump has referred to China as “our enemy.” He has called it “a major threat.” “Remember,” he once wrote on Twitter, “China is not a friend of the United States!”  Some people in China have their own label for the polarizing American president: savior.  At dinner tables, in social media chats and in discreet conversations, some of the country’s intellectual and business elite are half-jokingly, half-seriously cheering on the leader who has built a large part of his political career on China-bashing.  “Only Trump can save China,” goes one quip. Others call him the “chief pressure officer” of China’s reform and opening.  Their semi-serious praise reflects the deepening despair among those in China who fear their country is on the wrong track. An aggressive outsider like President Trump, according to this thinking, can help China find its way again. The Communist Party has become more involved in business, the economy, public discourse and other elements of everyday life. Many of these elite fear that after 40 years of reform and opening up, China is retreating. To make matters worse, nobody at home appears willing or able to fight the trend. President Xi Jinping has become the country’s most powerful leader since Mao Zedong, hurting the chances that internal opposition can push back.  Then came Mr. Trump and his trade war. Among other demands, American negotiators are calling on China to play a smaller role in the country’s economy. They want the Chinese government to stop throwing money at state-controlled companies. They want lower trade barriers and a level playing field for private businesses.  That puts Mr. Trump, oddly, in sync with a number of Chinese intellectuals and business types. Should the Communist Party step back from the economy, their thinking goes, it might have to loosen its tight grip over the rest of society, too. “The trade war is a good thing,” said Zhu Ning, an economist at Tsinghua University in Beijing. “It gives us hope when we’re hopeless.” “The various demands by the U.S. government could force us to carry on with the reforms,” said Tao Jingzhou, a partner at the law firm Dechert’s Beijing office. “There’s a Chinese saying that carrying out a reform is equivalent to a man cutting off his own arm, which is very hard. It might help if someone else forces you to do it.” Even some retired officials have said they believe that the trade war could have positive effects. Long Yongtu, who led the negotiations for China’s entry into the World Trade Organization, said at a forum last month that trade friction could be “a good thing.”  It could be “a healthy pressure that pushes China to move forward,” he said.  The chances that Mr. Trump alone can change China's ways are exceedingly slim. The Communist Party risks looking weak if it agrees to too many of his demands. True reform would have to come from inside.  “We can’t count on the external force to save China,” said Wang Gongquan, a billionaire liberal activist and former venture capitalist. He was among the first group of people who were detained or jailed after the party intensified the crackdown on dissent and civil disobedience six years ago. “Changes will only come,” Mr. Wang added, “when responsible people inside and outside the government push for it together.” Still, the hopes about Mr. Trump acknowledge the role the outside world has played in China’s gradual opening over the past four decades. Since the end of the Cultural Revolution, the Communist Party has largely been a reluctant reformer, often pushed and lured by internal and external forces. Even some in the Trump administration seem to be hoping that internal voices will speak up. In an interview with National Public Radio, Robert Lighthizer, Mr. Trump’s top trade negotiator, was asked about the likelihood that the trade war would lead to changes in China.  “You have to start with the proposition that there are people in China who believe that reform is a good idea,” Mr. Lighthizer said. “And you have to believe that those people are at a very senior level.” The challenge now will be to find those internal voices in a time when dissent can be quickly squelched. “Unfortunately, there’s no force to be joined with in China,” said Liu Suli, a liberal thinker and enthusiastic Trump supporter who founded an independent bookstore in Beijing. “There’s only a pool of stagnant water.” The breadth of support for Mr. Trump in China isn’t clear. Many business leaders dare not speak out for fear of angering the Communist Party.  The talk is hard to miss. The first time I heard the “Only Trump can save China” quip was a few months ago from a self-described apolitical tech entrepreneur in Guangdong Province in southern China. He complained about rising taxes and growing government interference in the economy. He was worried that if his start-up failed, he could end up on a newly created blacklist that would prevent him from taking flights and checking in at some hotels.  This image of Mr. Trump is often at odds with reality. Supporters of his who have long pushed China on human rights are cheering a president who wants to make it harder for migrants fleeing political persecution to find sanctuary in the United States. It’s a strange disconnect to listen to graying activists — educated free thinkers, some of whom have gone to prison for their ideals — put their hopes in a man who openly admires autocrats and calls journalists “the enemy of the people.” Optimists nevertheless point to signs that they say show Mr. Trump is having an impact. Facing both the trade war and a slowdown in growth that began in the middle of last year, China’s leadership has embraced some modest liberalization. The government has promised to cut taxes, ease other burdens on the private sector and give markets a somewhat bigger role in the economy.  “More market-oriented actions are being reconsidered or put back on the table,” said Mr. Zhu, the Tsinghua economist. “In this sense, the trade war is helping China’s reform.” But there’s little evidence that the leadership is easing its grip in a lasting way. The few business-friendly gestures are reactive rather than proactive. In other words, there hasn’t been any fundamental change in the leadership’s thinking. The party must control, as Mr. Xi has said, “all tasks.” Some Chinese supporters of Mr. Trump, particularly dissidents or those living in exile, believe that he plans something bigger: regime change. Liu Junning, a pro-democracy dissident in Beijing, pointed to Vice President Mike Pence’s stern speech in October in which he accused China of numerous offenses over the years. Mr. Liu also pointed to Venezuela, where the Trump administration has pushed for new leadership.  In part, this group believes past presidents were too soft on China’s Communist Party. But they also cite the patina of toughness that Mr. Trump accumulated in his pre-political days. Mr. Liu cited Mr. Trump’s book “The Art of the Deal” and his reality TV show, “The Apprentice.” “Trump’s approach is that he gives you a task and he expects you to get it done. Otherwise, you’re fired,” Mr. Liu said, alluding to the reality show. “He can be very tough.” How tough he will be about fixing China’s economy still isn’t clear. In public comments, Mr. Trump has focused on getting China to buy more American goods. His advisers have said he will press for economic reforms, but any pledge by China to cut subsidies to state-owned companies or favored industries would be difficult to verify, much less enforce.  “I don’t think helping China to reform is Trump’s main political goal,” Mr. Zhu said. “He may just want something to tweet about.”Supported by By Maureen Dowd Opinion Columnist GRAND RAPIDS, Mich. — It was going to be epic, like those Roman triumph celebrations where the generals would ride in on a chariot decorated with gold and ivory, so drunk on power that a slave would have to walk behind, holding a wreath over the general’s head and whispering in his ear, “Remember you are mortal.” Against all odds, Donald Trump had won the day, leaving his enemies stunned. The president had wrested the “No Collusion” headline he dearly craved, and Thursday he would claim his laurels. It was a moment to strut and gloat and curse and insult. From the president’s point of view, which is the only point of view that matters to him, it looked like Watergate in reverse. This was the night for Smugness Maximus. Looking out at the sea of red MAGA hats, a cockier-than-usual Don Jr., who opened for his father, said that this week MAGA stood for “Michael Avenatti Got Arrested.” The bend-the-knee mood was best summed up by the T-shirt of a man with a goatee and neck tattoo: “BITCH I’M THE PRESIDENT!” Michigan was the place to rub it in, because it will always be remembered as a place Hillary forgot. It was strange, though, to have the victorious Vulgarian spewing bile right across the Grand River from the resting place of Gerald Ford, whose museum here offers words associated with Ford that seem quaint by Trump standards: Trustworthy, Respectful, Team Player, Compassion, Steady Leader. Talking to people out on the floor, it was clear that they expected this to be a special “lovefest,” as one put it. They were thrilled at the prospect that Trump would be “the beast unleashed,” as one man said, unburdened and with his shoulders held high and his stride more confident. A rallygoer likened it to cyclists getting to use two pedals of a bicycle when they had been able to use only one. Up in the stands, Juli Arndt waved a “Women for Trump” sign. She had left her husband in charge of their business, Corky’s Beal City Tavern, to make the hour-and-a-half trip here. “I knew there was no collusion. I just had a feeling. I trust him. The only thing he hasn’t done that he promised to do is put Crooked Hillary in jail.” I noted that Jared and Ivanka had also now landed in hot water for using private accounts for official business. “Not to that extent,” she said. And then Trump appeared, running hot at the start. His former campaign advisers Corey Lewandowski and David Bossie had been on Air Force One with him and they were no doubt pumping him up en route, whispering to him, “Remember you are immortal.” At the rally, Trumpsters treated the two swamp creatures like stars, asking them to autograph their merch. But Trump did not seem to be savoring his triumph so much as wallowing in his victimhood, in what he sees as the unfair attempt by “major losers” to treat his presidency as illegitimate. He does not get the irony, that the way he first made his name in national politics was painting Barack Obama as illegitimate. Robert Mueller may not have exonerated the president on obstruction, but the president, of course, exonerated himself, bragging at the rally, “total exoneration, complete vindication.” He denounced his tormentors in the Democratic Party and the media as “sick, sick” and, referring to his raft of critics on MSNBC, crowed that “their ratings dropped through the floor last night.” Because, in Trump’s simplistic mind, that is the worst thing that can happen to anyone. When Trump describes what he sees as the plot against him, it is a mirror image of what his foes see: a fraud perpetrated by corrupt people, “a sinister effort to undermine” the election and a poisoning of the national debate that has left us hurt and divided and “on artificial respirators,” tearing “the fabric of our great democracy.” Trump engaged in his usual weird meandering, saying of his voters: “I always say they came from the valleys. They came from the mountains, they came out of the damn rivers. I don’t know what you were doing in the river, but they came from the cities, they came and they came and they didn’t even know.” He was in such a good mood that he allowed himself a favorite indulgence: knifing a top adviser in the perfect setting. Just as he excluded devout Catholic Sean Spicer from a meeting with the pope in Rome, he humiliated Betsy DeVos in a town where many buildings bear her last name, having “overridden my people” by reversing her decision to cut funding for the Special Olympics. For the last hour of the speech, Trump went flat, simply resorting to golden oldies. (He had already managed to step on his own parade in the dumbest way possible against the recommendation of his top people and Kevin McCarthy when he jumped back into the quicksand of health care.) It’s not clear why, on a night when his aides promised high energy, he seemed to lose altitude. Did he miss having Mueller as a foil? Did he know in his heart that he was guilty of some of those sins? Is he tired of rallies even before the 2020 race gets well underway? Does he know that his “No Collusion” headline will not change the minds of all those Americans who disdain him? Or is he being a sore winner again? Maybe Trump, like America, is just tired of winning. I invite you to follow me on Twitter (@MaureenDowd) and join me on Facebook. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 

Supported by By Maureen Dowd Opinion Columnist GRAND RAPIDS, Mich. — It was going to be epic, like those Roman triumph celebrations where the generals would ride in on a chariot decorated with gold and ivory, so drunk on power that a slave would have to walk behind, holding a wreath over the general’s head and whispering in his ear, “Remember you are mortal.” Against all odds, Donald Trump had won the day, leaving his enemies stunned. The president had wrested the “No Collusion” headline he dearly craved, and Thursday he would claim his laurels. It was a moment to strut and gloat and curse and insult. From the president’s point of view, which is the only point of view that matters to him, it looked like Watergate in reverse. This was the night for Smugness Maximus. Looking out at the sea of red MAGA hats, a cockier-than-usual Don Jr., who opened for his father, said that this week MAGA stood for “Michael Avenatti Got Arrested.” The bend-the-knee mood was best summed up by the T-shirt of a man with a goatee and neck tattoo: “BITCH I’M THE PRESIDENT!” Michigan was the place to rub it in, because it will always be remembered as a place Hillary forgot. It was strange, though, to have the victorious Vulgarian spewing bile right across the Grand River from the resting place of Gerald Ford, whose museum here offers words associated with Ford that seem quaint by Trump standards: Trustworthy, Respectful, Team Player, Compassion, Steady Leader. Talking to people out on the floor, it was clear that they expected this to be a special “lovefest,” as one put it. They were thrilled at the prospect that Trump would be “the beast unleashed,” as one man said, unburdened and with his shoulders held high and his stride more confident. A rallygoer likened it to cyclists getting to use two pedals of a bicycle when they had been able to use only one. Up in the stands, Juli Arndt waved a “Women for Trump” sign. She had left her husband in charge of their business, Corky’s Beal City Tavern, to make the hour-and-a-half trip here. “I knew there was no collusion. I just had a feeling. I trust him. The only thing he hasn’t done that he promised to do is put Crooked Hillary in jail.” I noted that Jared and Ivanka had also now landed in hot water for using private accounts for official business. “Not to that extent,” she said. And then Trump appeared, running hot at the start. His former campaign advisers Corey Lewandowski and David Bossie had been on Air Force One with him and they were no doubt pumping him up en route, whispering to him, “Remember you are immortal.” At the rally, Trumpsters treated the two swamp creatures like stars, asking them to autograph their merch. But Trump did not seem to be savoring his triumph so much as wallowing in his victimhood, in what he sees as the unfair attempt by “major losers” to treat his presidency as illegitimate. He does not get the irony, that the way he first made his name in national politics was painting Barack Obama as illegitimate. Robert Mueller may not have exonerated the president on obstruction, but the president, of course, exonerated himself, bragging at the rally, “total exoneration, complete vindication.” He denounced his tormentors in the Democratic Party and the media as “sick, sick” and, referring to his raft of critics on MSNBC, crowed that “their ratings dropped through the floor last night.” Because, in Trump’s simplistic mind, that is the worst thing that can happen to anyone. When Trump describes what he sees as the plot against him, it is a mirror image of what his foes see: a fraud perpetrated by corrupt people, “a sinister effort to undermine” the election and a poisoning of the national debate that has left us hurt and divided and “on artificial respirators,” tearing “the fabric of our great democracy.” Trump engaged in his usual weird meandering, saying of his voters: “I always say they came from the valleys. They came from the mountains, they came out of the damn rivers. I don’t know what you were doing in the river, but they came from the cities, they came and they came and they didn’t even know.” He was in such a good mood that he allowed himself a favorite indulgence: knifing a top adviser in the perfect setting. Just as he excluded devout Catholic Sean Spicer from a meeting with the pope in Rome, he humiliated Betsy DeVos in a town where many buildings bear her last name, having “overridden my people” by reversing her decision to cut funding for the Special Olympics. For the last hour of the speech, Trump went flat, simply resorting to golden oldies. (He had already managed to step on his own parade in the dumbest way possible against the recommendation of his top people and Kevin McCarthy when he jumped back into the quicksand of health care.) It’s not clear why, on a night when his aides promised high energy, he seemed to lose altitude. Did he miss having Mueller as a foil? Did he know in his heart that he was guilty of some of those sins? Is he tired of rallies even before the 2020 race gets well underway? Does he know that his “No Collusion” headline will not change the minds of all those Americans who disdain him? Or is he being a sore winner again? Maybe Trump, like America, is just tired of winning. I invite you to follow me on Twitter (@MaureenDowd) and join me on Facebook. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. Supported by He doesn’t deserve blame for any specific attack. He does deserve blame for the increase in white-nationalist violence. By David Leonhardt Opinion Columnist The president of the United States suggested last week that his political supporters might resort to violence if they didn’t get their way. The statement didn’t even get that much attention. I’m guessing you heard a lot more about the college-admissions scandal than about the president’s threat of extralegal violence. So let me tell you a little more about the threat. In an Oval Office interview with writers from the right-wing news site Breitbart, President Trump began complaining about Paul Ryan. As speaker of the House, Ryan blocked efforts by other House Republicans to subpoena and investigate people on the political left. Trump’s loyal allies in the House “wanted to go tougher,” Trump said, “but they weren’t allowed to by leadership.” To Trump, the incident was part of a larger problem: “You know, the left plays a tougher game. It’s very funny. I actually think that the people on the right are tougher, but they don’t play it tougher. O.K.? I can tell you I have the support of the police, the support of the military, the support of the Bikers for Trump. I have the tough people, but they don’t play it tough — until they go to a certain point, and then it would be very bad, very bad.” [Sign up for David Leonhardt’s daily newsletter with commentary on the news and reading suggestions from around the web.] This wasn’t the first time Trump had mused about violence, of course. He has talked about “Second Amendment people” preventing the appointment of liberal judges. He’s encouraged police officers to bang suspects’ heads against car roofs. He has suggested his supporters “knock the hell” out of hecklers. At a rally shortly before 2018 Election Day, he went on a similar riff about Bikers for Trump and the military. I’m well aware of the various see-no-evil attempts to excuse this behavior: That’s just how he talks. Don’t take him literally. Other Republicans are keeping him in check. His speeches and tweets don’t really matter. But they do matter. The president’s continued encouragement of violence — and of white nationalism — is part of the reason that white-nationalist violence is increasing. Funny how that works. After Trump’s latest threat, I reached out to several experts in democracy and authoritarianism to ask what they made of it. Their answers were consistent: No, the United States does not appear at risk of widespread political violence anytime soon. But Trump’s words are still corroding democracy and public safety. His latest incitement fit a historical pattern, and one with “scary echoes,” as Daniel Ziblatt, who co-wrote the recent book “How Democracies Die,” told me. Trump combined lies about his political opponents — Democrats who need to be investigated (for made-up scandals) — with allusions to a patriotic, violent response by ordinary citizens. Latin American autocrats, including Hugo Chávez in Venezuela, have used this combination. So did European fascists in the 1930s. The United States, thank goodness, does not have armed citizen militias carrying out regular attacks, as those other countries did. But our situation is still worrisome. “Violent talk can, at minimum, encourage lone-wolf violence,” Steven Levitsky, Ziblatt’s co-author and a Harvard political scientist, said. “It can also slowly normalize political violence, turning discourse and ideas that were once unsayable and even unthinkable into things that are sayable and thinkable.” These risks are not just hypothetical. In 2017, a House candidate body-slammed a reporter who asked a probing question — behavior with no recent precedent. Trump praised the now-congressman, Greg Gianforte, for the assault. In the Bright Light Watch survey of political scientists late last year, only 49 percent said the United States did not tolerate political violence, a notable decline from earlier levels. Some respondents cited Gianforte. Statistics on hate crimes are notoriously unreliable, but the evidence strongly suggests that they’re rising. The F.B.I.’s data shows an increase. The Anti-Defamation League reports a 73 percent rise in “extremist-related killings” during the last four years.  Not all attacks come from people who identify with the political right, obviously: The 2017 attempted mass murder of House Republicans on a baseball field is one horrific example. But most politically motivated attacks do indeed come from the right. Last year, 39 of the 50 extremist killings tracked by the A.D.L. were committed by white supremacists, and another eight were committed by killers espousing anti-government views.  Drawing a direct line from the purveyors of hateful rhetoric to any specific hate crime is usually impossible. And it’s usually a mistake to try. The motive for these crimes — be it in New Zealand last week or Pittsburgh last year — is typically a stew of mental illness, personal anger and mixed-up ideology. Trump doesn’t deserve to be blamed for any specific crime. But he does deserve blame for the trend. It isn’t very complicated: The man with the world’s largest bully pulpit keeps encouraging violence and white nationalism. Lo and behold, white-nationalist violence is on the rise. You have to work pretty hard to persuade yourself that’s just a big coincidence. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.  David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt • Facebook 

Supported by He doesn’t deserve blame for any specific attack. He does deserve blame for the increase in white-nationalist violence. By David Leonhardt Opinion Columnist The president of the United States suggested last week that his political supporters might resort to violence if they didn’t get their way. The statement didn’t even get that much attention. I’m guessing you heard a lot more about the college-admissions scandal than about the president’s threat of extralegal violence. So let me tell you a little more about the threat. In an Oval Office interview with writers from the right-wing news site Breitbart, President Trump began complaining about Paul Ryan. As speaker of the House, Ryan blocked efforts by other House Republicans to subpoena and investigate people on the political left. Trump’s loyal allies in the House “wanted to go tougher,” Trump said, “but they weren’t allowed to by leadership.” To Trump, the incident was part of a larger problem: “You know, the left plays a tougher game. It’s very funny. I actually think that the people on the right are tougher, but they don’t play it tougher. O.K.? I can tell you I have the support of the police, the support of the military, the support of the Bikers for Trump. I have the tough people, but they don’t play it tough — until they go to a certain point, and then it would be very bad, very bad.” [Sign up for David Leonhardt’s daily newsletter with commentary on the news and reading suggestions from around the web.] This wasn’t the first time Trump had mused about violence, of course. He has talked about “Second Amendment people” preventing the appointment of liberal judges. He’s encouraged police officers to bang suspects’ heads against car roofs. He has suggested his supporters “knock the hell” out of hecklers. At a rally shortly before 2018 Election Day, he went on a similar riff about Bikers for Trump and the military. I’m well aware of the various see-no-evil attempts to excuse this behavior: That’s just how he talks. Don’t take him literally. Other Republicans are keeping him in check. His speeches and tweets don’t really matter. But they do matter. The president’s continued encouragement of violence — and of white nationalism — is part of the reason that white-nationalist violence is increasing. Funny how that works. After Trump’s latest threat, I reached out to several experts in democracy and authoritarianism to ask what they made of it. Their answers were consistent: No, the United States does not appear at risk of widespread political violence anytime soon. But Trump’s words are still corroding democracy and public safety. His latest incitement fit a historical pattern, and one with “scary echoes,” as Daniel Ziblatt, who co-wrote the recent book “How Democracies Die,” told me. Trump combined lies about his political opponents — Democrats who need to be investigated (for made-up scandals) — with allusions to a patriotic, violent response by ordinary citizens. Latin American autocrats, including Hugo Chávez in Venezuela, have used this combination. So did European fascists in the 1930s. The United States, thank goodness, does not have armed citizen militias carrying out regular attacks, as those other countries did. But our situation is still worrisome. “Violent talk can, at minimum, encourage lone-wolf violence,” Steven Levitsky, Ziblatt’s co-author and a Harvard political scientist, said. “It can also slowly normalize political violence, turning discourse and ideas that were once unsayable and even unthinkable into things that are sayable and thinkable.” These risks are not just hypothetical. In 2017, a House candidate body-slammed a reporter who asked a probing question — behavior with no recent precedent. Trump praised the now-congressman, Greg Gianforte, for the assault. In the Bright Light Watch survey of political scientists late last year, only 49 percent said the United States did not tolerate political violence, a notable decline from earlier levels. Some respondents cited Gianforte. Statistics on hate crimes are notoriously unreliable, but the evidence strongly suggests that they’re rising. The F.B.I.’s data shows an increase. The Anti-Defamation League reports a 73 percent rise in “extremist-related killings” during the last four years.  Not all attacks come from people who identify with the political right, obviously: The 2017 attempted mass murder of House Republicans on a baseball field is one horrific example. But most politically motivated attacks do indeed come from the right. Last year, 39 of the 50 extremist killings tracked by the A.D.L. were committed by white supremacists, and another eight were committed by killers espousing anti-government views.  Drawing a direct line from the purveyors of hateful rhetoric to any specific hate crime is usually impossible. And it’s usually a mistake to try. The motive for these crimes — be it in New Zealand last week or Pittsburgh last year — is typically a stew of mental illness, personal anger and mixed-up ideology. Trump doesn’t deserve to be blamed for any specific crime. But he does deserve blame for the trend. It isn’t very complicated: The man with the world’s largest bully pulpit keeps encouraging violence and white nationalism. Lo and behold, white-nationalist violence is on the rise. You have to work pretty hard to persuade yourself that’s just a big coincidence. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.  David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt • Facebook Supported by White House Memo By Katie Rogers and Maggie Haberman WASHINGTON — As he awaits the Thursday release of the redacted special counsel report on his 2016 campaign’s ties to Russia, President Trump is filling his idle moments — and blowing off any anticipatory steam — by turning to a familiar pastime: television. In speeches, in interviews and on Twitter this week, the president has returned to his comfortable role of town crier and news wire as he opines on the news developments of the day. Bernie Sanders, a prospective Democratic challenger for the presidency, appeared on Fox News: Weird, the president tweeted on Tuesday, adding that it was odd that “we” — meaning he and Fox News — had brought the Democratic strategist Donna Brazile into the channel’s Trump-friendly fold of cable contributors. Nancy Pelosi, the Democratic House speaker, appeared on “60 Minutes” over the weekend: “Puff piece,” the president scoffed on Twitter, adding that Ms. Pelosi was a “disaster” in negotiations with him at the White House. (“Thanks for watching!” Ms. Pelosi responded.) Cher, the singer and frequent Trump critic who uses a toilet emoji when referring to the president, disliked the White House’s proposed plan to transport undocumented migrants to sanctuary cities, saying Los Angeles already had people in poverty it could not take care of. “I finally agree with @Cher!” Mr. Trump exclaimed to 59 million Twitter followers. In addition to his running commentary, Mr. Trump has taken up the role of play-by-play announcer. He first weighed in on the fire that engulfed Notre-Dame, the French cathedral and international symbol of resilience and faith, by suggesting that flying tankers drop water on the 800-year-old structure. The French authorities responded with a pointed English-language statement to say that the building, already buckling under the weight of crumbling wooden beams and limestone, would have been destroyed if that advice had been followed. This did not deter the president from sharing updates with a crowd of supporters in Minnesota with all the accuracy of a police scanner: “Looks like it’s burning to the ground,” Mr. Trump told his supporters. They gasped at the news. (Notre-Dame, it turned out, did not burn to the ground, but by the time the smoke cleared, Mr. Trump had already moved on to disparaging Robert S. Mueller III’s investigation.) Mr. Trump has always enjoyed providing his own unique interpretation of the day’s news, in part because for years before coming to Washington he saw himself as a part of the media, first as a tabloid fixture in New York City and then as a cable commentator and reality-television star. Randal Pinkett, the chairman of BCT Partners, a consulting firm, and winner of season four of “The Apprentice,” recalled in an interview that Mr. Trump was “obsessed with media” and constantly reminded people around him that the show was No. 1 (though it did not crack the top 20). “He has the same temperament now that he did,” Mr. Pinkett said, “and has probably had for quite some time, given the Donald-centric world he’s constructed around himself.” Now in the White House, Mr. Trump’s delight in being the first to share information is palpable. “Don’t you enjoy being the first person to scoop someone?” said Anthony Scaramucci, who served for 11 days as the White House communications director. “For many years he felt that there was no separation between his brand and the media, that there was an intersection of value for himself personally between his brand and saturating it in the media,” Mr. Scaramucci said. Mr. Trump spent decades sharpening his ability to manipulate and create his own news cycles, sometimes in pioneering ways. Years before running for president, Mr. Trump frequently used the six-second social media video platform Vine to weigh in on topics such as Miley Cyrus and the former Democratic congressman Anthony D. Weiner — “No perverts!” Mr. Trump exclaimed one day from his private jet. As a presidential candidate, Mr. Trump was often described by aides as a sophisticated version of a parrot, given his penchant for repeating information almost unfiltered, as soon as he had processed it. As president, Mr. Trump — who has shaped the White House communications operation around his belief that he is his own best messenger — has acted as both reporter and participant. When Tiger Woods clinched the Masters golf tournament on Sunday, Mr. Trump, who spent the day inviting Americans to watch — “Very exciting, tune in!” — announced he would award Mr. Woods the Presidential Medal of Freedom. “Because of his incredible Success & Comeback in Sports (Golf) and, more importantly, LIFE, I will be presenting him with the PRESIDENTIAL MEDAL OF FREEDOM!” Mr. Trump wrote. Mr. Trump’s allies and advisers see his use of information flow, particularly on Twitter, as one of his strengths. He presents himself to supporters not just as an elected official representing them, but also as a source they can believe. “Part of the reason that the president was elected in the first place was because he reflected the distrust and disdain that large swaths of the country have had for the mainstream media for many years now,” said Andy Surabian, a Republican strategist and a former special assistant to the president in the White House. Boris Epshteyn, now the chief political commentator at Sinclair Broadcast Group who also served as a special assistant to Mr. Trump, said the president had “consistently been very effective” at dealing with the media during his career, and that as president, he had “the most powerful loudspeaker in the world, both through traditional and social media channels.” For all of the mystery surrounding Mr. Trump’s uses of his unscheduled hours, some aides privately concede that a large portion of that time is spent with a television on in the background. When he eats lunch in his dining room with visitors, a TV is usually on, either turned down or muted, until there is something he wants to hear. When he travels on Air Force One, he toggles between the Golf Channel and Fox News. The morning hours blocked off for unstructured executive time are often interspersed with tweets responding to television commentary on Mr. Mueller’s report. To reinforce Mr. Trump’s view that he has been “exonerated” by the investigation, White House surrogates who appear on cable news in support of the president have received a barrage of emails, many written by Julia Hahn, the White House surrogate liaison, declaring the president fully vindicated. Democrats have made a point of rejecting the notion that the president should be placing himself at the front and center of every major cultural development. “Starting today, we are going to change the channel,” Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Ind., said in a speech announcing his presidential candidacy on Sunday, adding that it was time to end Mr. Trump’s “horror show” in Washington. Mo Elleithee, the executive director of the Georgetown Institute of Politics and Public Service and a former spokesman for the Democratic National Committee, said Mr. Trump’s insistence on inserting himself into a wide variety of stories — some of which are about his potential 2020 opponents and not the White House — may be the president’s way of trying to wrestle back attention from a crowded field. “If anything, he’s going to be responding” to non-Trump-related news going forward, Mr. Elleithee said, “which is an unusual place for him.” But, he added: “The fact that he was giving firefighting advice as the flames were still blazing just shows one, that his instinct right now is to try to get into every story he possibly can, and two, it’s not as effective as it once was. A year ago, it would’ve been dominant.”   

Supported by White House Memo By Katie Rogers and Maggie Haberman WASHINGTON — As he awaits the Thursday release of the redacted special counsel report on his 2016 campaign’s ties to Russia, President Trump is filling his idle moments — and blowing off any anticipatory steam — by turning to a familiar pastime: television. In speeches, in interviews and on Twitter this week, the president has returned to his comfortable role of town crier and news wire as he opines on the news developments of the day. Bernie Sanders, a prospective Democratic challenger for the presidency, appeared on Fox News: Weird, the president tweeted on Tuesday, adding that it was odd that “we” — meaning he and Fox News — had brought the Democratic strategist Donna Brazile into the channel’s Trump-friendly fold of cable contributors. Nancy Pelosi, the Democratic House speaker, appeared on “60 Minutes” over the weekend: “Puff piece,” the president scoffed on Twitter, adding that Ms. Pelosi was a “disaster” in negotiations with him at the White House. (“Thanks for watching!” Ms. Pelosi responded.) Cher, the singer and frequent Trump critic who uses a toilet emoji when referring to the president, disliked the White House’s proposed plan to transport undocumented migrants to sanctuary cities, saying Los Angeles already had people in poverty it could not take care of. “I finally agree with @Cher!” Mr. Trump exclaimed to 59 million Twitter followers. In addition to his running commentary, Mr. Trump has taken up the role of play-by-play announcer. He first weighed in on the fire that engulfed Notre-Dame, the French cathedral and international symbol of resilience and faith, by suggesting that flying tankers drop water on the 800-year-old structure. The French authorities responded with a pointed English-language statement to say that the building, already buckling under the weight of crumbling wooden beams and limestone, would have been destroyed if that advice had been followed. This did not deter the president from sharing updates with a crowd of supporters in Minnesota with all the accuracy of a police scanner: “Looks like it’s burning to the ground,” Mr. Trump told his supporters. They gasped at the news. (Notre-Dame, it turned out, did not burn to the ground, but by the time the smoke cleared, Mr. Trump had already moved on to disparaging Robert S. Mueller III’s investigation.) Mr. Trump has always enjoyed providing his own unique interpretation of the day’s news, in part because for years before coming to Washington he saw himself as a part of the media, first as a tabloid fixture in New York City and then as a cable commentator and reality-television star. Randal Pinkett, the chairman of BCT Partners, a consulting firm, and winner of season four of “The Apprentice,” recalled in an interview that Mr. Trump was “obsessed with media” and constantly reminded people around him that the show was No. 1 (though it did not crack the top 20). “He has the same temperament now that he did,” Mr. Pinkett said, “and has probably had for quite some time, given the Donald-centric world he’s constructed around himself.” Now in the White House, Mr. Trump’s delight in being the first to share information is palpable. “Don’t you enjoy being the first person to scoop someone?” said Anthony Scaramucci, who served for 11 days as the White House communications director. “For many years he felt that there was no separation between his brand and the media, that there was an intersection of value for himself personally between his brand and saturating it in the media,” Mr. Scaramucci said. Mr. Trump spent decades sharpening his ability to manipulate and create his own news cycles, sometimes in pioneering ways. Years before running for president, Mr. Trump frequently used the six-second social media video platform Vine to weigh in on topics such as Miley Cyrus and the former Democratic congressman Anthony D. Weiner — “No perverts!” Mr. Trump exclaimed one day from his private jet. As a presidential candidate, Mr. Trump was often described by aides as a sophisticated version of a parrot, given his penchant for repeating information almost unfiltered, as soon as he had processed it. As president, Mr. Trump — who has shaped the White House communications operation around his belief that he is his own best messenger — has acted as both reporter and participant. When Tiger Woods clinched the Masters golf tournament on Sunday, Mr. Trump, who spent the day inviting Americans to watch — “Very exciting, tune in!” — announced he would award Mr. Woods the Presidential Medal of Freedom. “Because of his incredible Success & Comeback in Sports (Golf) and, more importantly, LIFE, I will be presenting him with the PRESIDENTIAL MEDAL OF FREEDOM!” Mr. Trump wrote. Mr. Trump’s allies and advisers see his use of information flow, particularly on Twitter, as one of his strengths. He presents himself to supporters not just as an elected official representing them, but also as a source they can believe. “Part of the reason that the president was elected in the first place was because he reflected the distrust and disdain that large swaths of the country have had for the mainstream media for many years now,” said Andy Surabian, a Republican strategist and a former special assistant to the president in the White House. Boris Epshteyn, now the chief political commentator at Sinclair Broadcast Group who also served as a special assistant to Mr. Trump, said the president had “consistently been very effective” at dealing with the media during his career, and that as president, he had “the most powerful loudspeaker in the world, both through traditional and social media channels.” For all of the mystery surrounding Mr. Trump’s uses of his unscheduled hours, some aides privately concede that a large portion of that time is spent with a television on in the background. When he eats lunch in his dining room with visitors, a TV is usually on, either turned down or muted, until there is something he wants to hear. When he travels on Air Force One, he toggles between the Golf Channel and Fox News. The morning hours blocked off for unstructured executive time are often interspersed with tweets responding to television commentary on Mr. Mueller’s report. To reinforce Mr. Trump’s view that he has been “exonerated” by the investigation, White House surrogates who appear on cable news in support of the president have received a barrage of emails, many written by Julia Hahn, the White House surrogate liaison, declaring the president fully vindicated. Democrats have made a point of rejecting the notion that the president should be placing himself at the front and center of every major cultural development. “Starting today, we are going to change the channel,” Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Ind., said in a speech announcing his presidential candidacy on Sunday, adding that it was time to end Mr. Trump’s “horror show” in Washington. Mo Elleithee, the executive director of the Georgetown Institute of Politics and Public Service and a former spokesman for the Democratic National Committee, said Mr. Trump’s insistence on inserting himself into a wide variety of stories — some of which are about his potential 2020 opponents and not the White House — may be the president’s way of trying to wrestle back attention from a crowded field. “If anything, he’s going to be responding” to non-Trump-related news going forward, Mr. Elleithee said, “which is an unusual place for him.” But, he added: “The fact that he was giving firefighting advice as the flames were still blazing just shows one, that his instinct right now is to try to get into every story he possibly can, and two, it’s not as effective as it once was. A year ago, it would’ve been dominant.”   Supported by They both see the world’s problems as opportunities to cement their hold on power. By Thomas L. Friedman Opinion Columnist There are two countries that I’ve been professionally, emotionally and intellectually involved with my entire journalism career — the United States and Israel. I’ve never been more worried about both, because President Trump and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu are essentially the same person, and they pose the same threat to their respective nations. They are both men utterly without shame, backed by parties utterly without spine, protected by big media outlets utterly without integrity. They are both funded by a Las Vegas casino magnate, Sheldon Adelson. They are both making support for Israel a “Republican’’ cause — no longer a bipartisan one. And they each could shoot an innocent man in broad daylight in the middle of Fifth Avenue and their supporters would say the victim had it coming. As a result, they are each free to cross red lines that their predecessors never dared to. Which is why I believe that four more years of Netanyahu, which is almost certain after Israel’s election on Tuesday, and six more years of Trump, which is a real possibility, will hasten the emergence of an America and an Israel where respect for civility, democracy, an independent judiciary and independent media are no longer examples for others to follow.  Instead, both countries will be cautionary tales of how precious are the norms and institutions that bind a democracy, and how easily they can be undermined by leaders who will tell any lie, smear any competitor and wink at any extremist to stay in power. Netanyahu’s first order of business will be to strike an agreement with his potential coalition partners, most of them far-right, pro-settler parties, in which, as Haaretz reported, those parties will agree to create legislation that gets rid of the multiple indictments for corruption looming in Bibi’s future — and in return he will agree to annex West Bank settlements to Israel. And Trump will somehow go along, maybe as part of his own peace plan. It is going to be a dirty business, for sure. But what else could we expect? The parallels between Trump and Netanyahu are now deep and broad. Bibi has openly embraced a racist, anti-Arab Israeli party and racist, anti-Arab rhetoric, unlike any previous Israeli prime minister. At the same time, he has steadily been erasing the Green Line that separated Israel from the West Bank and its 2.5 million Palestinians — with the help of Trump’s ambassador to Israel — making it increasingly unlikely that Israel will ever separate itself from that area and increasingly likely that it will become a binational state in which Jews will enjoy rights that Palestinians will be denied. Meanwhile, Trump is increasingly turning America into a banana republic, firing cabinet officials and senior bureaucrats who refuse to carry out his impulsive orders, which are often illegal and mostly related to preventing legal and illegal immigration or asylum requests along the Mexico-United States border. Trump prefers to govern through “acting’’ cabinet secretaries — he has fired their bosses and not replaced them — who are much more vulnerable to his whims and more accepting of his more than 10,000 lies and falsehoods since taking office. Bibi, for his part, prefers to simply hold multiple portfolios: For a good chunk of his last term he was prime minister, defense minister, foreign minister and health minister. Both men have no close friends. The one major difference between them is that Bibi is very smart, an avid reader and a deft tactician in managing relations with Israel’s neighbors and big powers, such as America, Russia, India and China. Trump is clever but probably has not read a book in years. He gets his information from Fox News and other right-wing media, and rather than playing Vladimir Putin, has been played by him. Both Trump and Netanyahu are being investigated for serious financial improprieties. Israel’s attorney general has recommended that Netanyahu be indicted on charges of fraud, bribery and breach of trust in three corruption cases. Trump has been cleared by the special counsel on charges of collusion with Russia in the 2016 election, but he remains under investigation, as Reuters noted, on “issues including his businesses and financial dealings, personal conduct, charitable foundation and inaugural committee.’’ Five close Trump aides have already admitted to crimes, mostly financial, or been convicted. Neither man is interested in being a leader for all their people. Each has chosen to rule by dividing his people, not uniting them. They each just want to win by 50.01 percent, by using fear of the outsider and drawing cultural or religious distinctions between their citizens to garner just enough votes to squeak by. Bibi’s strategy was to demonize Israeli Arabs, and Trump’s was to demonize Muslims and Mexicans and immigrants from what he called “shithole’’ countries. Both men have rebuilt their parties around themselves and their personal politics, and both believe that as long as they can hold their bases by stoking enough fear and cultural division, they can win — and they’re willing to sacrifice any values or norms to do so. Neither man is entirely wrong about the world around him. America does have an illegal immigration problem that Democrats have not taken seriously enough. Israel has real enemies like Iran and its proxies. But Israel’s external enemies are well deterred. The existential threat to Israel is internal — that it will annex the West Bank with its Palestinian population and look to the world as an apartheidlike South Africa. My critique of both men is that they consistently try to use these real threats for political gain — to feed fears, rather than to think creatively about how to defuse them. Because for Bibi to think imaginatively about how to separate from the West Bank and for Trump to think creatively about how to defuse our immigration problem with a coherent national strategy would require each to disappoint or confront the extreme ultranationalists who form the core bases of their support. Neither has the courage or the desire to do so. Indeed, Netanyahu has gone so deep into the gutter that in this last election he agreed to partner with a small, racist, anti-Arab Israeli party — a party so vile that the Israeli Supreme Court barred its leader from running. In response, Netanyahu’s allies immediately threatened to gut the Supreme Court if they win. I don’t have to tell you where Trump has gone in indulging white supremacists. Bibi will go down in history as the Israeli leader who concretized the distinction between “Israelis’’ and “Jews,’’ noted Bernard Avishai in a smart essay in The New Yorker: “The menace, Netanyahu has implied, is not just the Arabs but what might be termed Israeliness — a legal and cultural identity available to any citizen who participates in Hebrew-speaking civil society, including the 20 percent who are Arab.’’ While Benny Gantz, Bibi’s opponent in the recent election, has argued that, broadly defined, “Israeli identity is increasingly plausible for, among others, young, middle-class Arabs, who accounted for more than 16 percent of students in bachelor’s degree programs in 2017,’’ that is not Netanyahu’s view. “Netanyahu’s version, in contrast,’’ Avishai explained, “is a state essentially reserved for Jews, including those in the diaspora, who can prove their Jewishness by either rabbinical certification or maternal descent — one that is democratic only in the sense that Jews constitute the majority, the general will of Jews necessarily prevails, and non-Jews are in the state by sufferance, not really by right.’’ That is why Netanyahu passed the recent Nation-State Law, which stipulated that Israel is “the national home of the Jewish people, in which it fulfills its natural, cultural, religious and historical right to self-determination.” However much American Jews — and traditional, secular American Jewish supporters of Israel — “may try to shield Netanyahu, it is increasingly clear that he is at odds with their democratic standards, which are already under assault,’’ Avishai concluded. “American Jews, like Israeli voters, have choices to make.’’ Is Israel a state for Jews or for all its citizens? Trump has dabbled in the same kind of tropes. He may not say it explicitly, but his whole worldview, evident from his dog whistles, is that real Americans are primarily white Judeo-Christians — certainly not Muslims — and that all black or brown immigrants are suspect. Finally, both Trump and Bibi worship only one thing — raw, naked power, and they are not afraid to exercise it. Bibi is convinced that if Israel is strong militarily, economically and technologically, the world will bend to its will and beat a path to its door. The Palestinians will surrender; the Arabs will deal with Israel under the table; and China, India and Russia will all come to buy Israeli software. And so far he has been right. Bibi is convinced that liberal American Jews are worthless, that they’ll soon disappear via intermarriage and that the country’s Orthodox Jews and evangelical Christians will be powerful enough to do Israel’s bidding in Washington. Trump too has an obsession with raw power; his favorite insult is to call someone “weak.’’ He lives by the credo: Never apologize, no matter how foul your actions or how big your lie. Just stand firm and everyone will eventually bend your way. It has worked for him too. But at what long-term costs for both societies? Trump is replacing the entire logic of American foreign policy since World War II — that more global integration and stronger global rules and institutions will make for a more prosperous world, and if America pays a little more than others for that we will reap far more benefits because we are the world’s biggest economy — with a philosophy of competitive nationalism. For Trump, all the global institutions built after World War II — NATO, the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, the World Trade Organization, the United Nations — are just tools for small countries to rip off America or stick it to Israel. Trump actually wants the European Union to crack up, because he thinks that if the United States just negotiates with every nation bilaterally, it will be able to impose asymmetrical trade agreements on them. So have no doubts: Four more years of Netanyahu and six more years of Trump won’t just change America and Israel. It will change the world — and not for the better. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Thomas L. Friedman is the foreign affairs Op-Ed columnist. He joined the paper in 1981, and has won three Pulitzer Prizes. He is the author of seven books, including “From Beirut to Jerusalem,” which won the National Book Award.  @tomfriedman • Facebook 

Supported by They both see the world’s problems as opportunities to cement their hold on power. By Thomas L. Friedman Opinion Columnist There are two countries that I’ve been professionally, emotionally and intellectually involved with my entire journalism career — the United States and Israel. I’ve never been more worried about both, because President Trump and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu are essentially the same person, and they pose the same threat to their respective nations. They are both men utterly without shame, backed by parties utterly without spine, protected by big media outlets utterly without integrity. They are both funded by a Las Vegas casino magnate, Sheldon Adelson. They are both making support for Israel a “Republican’’ cause — no longer a bipartisan one. And they each could shoot an innocent man in broad daylight in the middle of Fifth Avenue and their supporters would say the victim had it coming. As a result, they are each free to cross red lines that their predecessors never dared to. Which is why I believe that four more years of Netanyahu, which is almost certain after Israel’s election on Tuesday, and six more years of Trump, which is a real possibility, will hasten the emergence of an America and an Israel where respect for civility, democracy, an independent judiciary and independent media are no longer examples for others to follow.  Instead, both countries will be cautionary tales of how precious are the norms and institutions that bind a democracy, and how easily they can be undermined by leaders who will tell any lie, smear any competitor and wink at any extremist to stay in power. Netanyahu’s first order of business will be to strike an agreement with his potential coalition partners, most of them far-right, pro-settler parties, in which, as Haaretz reported, those parties will agree to create legislation that gets rid of the multiple indictments for corruption looming in Bibi’s future — and in return he will agree to annex West Bank settlements to Israel. And Trump will somehow go along, maybe as part of his own peace plan. It is going to be a dirty business, for sure. But what else could we expect? The parallels between Trump and Netanyahu are now deep and broad. Bibi has openly embraced a racist, anti-Arab Israeli party and racist, anti-Arab rhetoric, unlike any previous Israeli prime minister. At the same time, he has steadily been erasing the Green Line that separated Israel from the West Bank and its 2.5 million Palestinians — with the help of Trump’s ambassador to Israel — making it increasingly unlikely that Israel will ever separate itself from that area and increasingly likely that it will become a binational state in which Jews will enjoy rights that Palestinians will be denied. Meanwhile, Trump is increasingly turning America into a banana republic, firing cabinet officials and senior bureaucrats who refuse to carry out his impulsive orders, which are often illegal and mostly related to preventing legal and illegal immigration or asylum requests along the Mexico-United States border. Trump prefers to govern through “acting’’ cabinet secretaries — he has fired their bosses and not replaced them — who are much more vulnerable to his whims and more accepting of his more than 10,000 lies and falsehoods since taking office. Bibi, for his part, prefers to simply hold multiple portfolios: For a good chunk of his last term he was prime minister, defense minister, foreign minister and health minister. Both men have no close friends. The one major difference between them is that Bibi is very smart, an avid reader and a deft tactician in managing relations with Israel’s neighbors and big powers, such as America, Russia, India and China. Trump is clever but probably has not read a book in years. He gets his information from Fox News and other right-wing media, and rather than playing Vladimir Putin, has been played by him. Both Trump and Netanyahu are being investigated for serious financial improprieties. Israel’s attorney general has recommended that Netanyahu be indicted on charges of fraud, bribery and breach of trust in three corruption cases. Trump has been cleared by the special counsel on charges of collusion with Russia in the 2016 election, but he remains under investigation, as Reuters noted, on “issues including his businesses and financial dealings, personal conduct, charitable foundation and inaugural committee.’’ Five close Trump aides have already admitted to crimes, mostly financial, or been convicted. Neither man is interested in being a leader for all their people. Each has chosen to rule by dividing his people, not uniting them. They each just want to win by 50.01 percent, by using fear of the outsider and drawing cultural or religious distinctions between their citizens to garner just enough votes to squeak by. Bibi’s strategy was to demonize Israeli Arabs, and Trump’s was to demonize Muslims and Mexicans and immigrants from what he called “shithole’’ countries. Both men have rebuilt their parties around themselves and their personal politics, and both believe that as long as they can hold their bases by stoking enough fear and cultural division, they can win — and they’re willing to sacrifice any values or norms to do so. Neither man is entirely wrong about the world around him. America does have an illegal immigration problem that Democrats have not taken seriously enough. Israel has real enemies like Iran and its proxies. But Israel’s external enemies are well deterred. The existential threat to Israel is internal — that it will annex the West Bank with its Palestinian population and look to the world as an apartheidlike South Africa. My critique of both men is that they consistently try to use these real threats for political gain — to feed fears, rather than to think creatively about how to defuse them. Because for Bibi to think imaginatively about how to separate from the West Bank and for Trump to think creatively about how to defuse our immigration problem with a coherent national strategy would require each to disappoint or confront the extreme ultranationalists who form the core bases of their support. Neither has the courage or the desire to do so. Indeed, Netanyahu has gone so deep into the gutter that in this last election he agreed to partner with a small, racist, anti-Arab Israeli party — a party so vile that the Israeli Supreme Court barred its leader from running. In response, Netanyahu’s allies immediately threatened to gut the Supreme Court if they win. I don’t have to tell you where Trump has gone in indulging white supremacists. Bibi will go down in history as the Israeli leader who concretized the distinction between “Israelis’’ and “Jews,’’ noted Bernard Avishai in a smart essay in The New Yorker: “The menace, Netanyahu has implied, is not just the Arabs but what might be termed Israeliness — a legal and cultural identity available to any citizen who participates in Hebrew-speaking civil society, including the 20 percent who are Arab.’’ While Benny Gantz, Bibi’s opponent in the recent election, has argued that, broadly defined, “Israeli identity is increasingly plausible for, among others, young, middle-class Arabs, who accounted for more than 16 percent of students in bachelor’s degree programs in 2017,’’ that is not Netanyahu’s view. “Netanyahu’s version, in contrast,’’ Avishai explained, “is a state essentially reserved for Jews, including those in the diaspora, who can prove their Jewishness by either rabbinical certification or maternal descent — one that is democratic only in the sense that Jews constitute the majority, the general will of Jews necessarily prevails, and non-Jews are in the state by sufferance, not really by right.’’ That is why Netanyahu passed the recent Nation-State Law, which stipulated that Israel is “the national home of the Jewish people, in which it fulfills its natural, cultural, religious and historical right to self-determination.” However much American Jews — and traditional, secular American Jewish supporters of Israel — “may try to shield Netanyahu, it is increasingly clear that he is at odds with their democratic standards, which are already under assault,’’ Avishai concluded. “American Jews, like Israeli voters, have choices to make.’’ Is Israel a state for Jews or for all its citizens? Trump has dabbled in the same kind of tropes. He may not say it explicitly, but his whole worldview, evident from his dog whistles, is that real Americans are primarily white Judeo-Christians — certainly not Muslims — and that all black or brown immigrants are suspect. Finally, both Trump and Bibi worship only one thing — raw, naked power, and they are not afraid to exercise it. Bibi is convinced that if Israel is strong militarily, economically and technologically, the world will bend to its will and beat a path to its door. The Palestinians will surrender; the Arabs will deal with Israel under the table; and China, India and Russia will all come to buy Israeli software. And so far he has been right. Bibi is convinced that liberal American Jews are worthless, that they’ll soon disappear via intermarriage and that the country’s Orthodox Jews and evangelical Christians will be powerful enough to do Israel’s bidding in Washington. Trump too has an obsession with raw power; his favorite insult is to call someone “weak.’’ He lives by the credo: Never apologize, no matter how foul your actions or how big your lie. Just stand firm and everyone will eventually bend your way. It has worked for him too. But at what long-term costs for both societies? Trump is replacing the entire logic of American foreign policy since World War II — that more global integration and stronger global rules and institutions will make for a more prosperous world, and if America pays a little more than others for that we will reap far more benefits because we are the world’s biggest economy — with a philosophy of competitive nationalism. For Trump, all the global institutions built after World War II — NATO, the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, the World Trade Organization, the United Nations — are just tools for small countries to rip off America or stick it to Israel. Trump actually wants the European Union to crack up, because he thinks that if the United States just negotiates with every nation bilaterally, it will be able to impose asymmetrical trade agreements on them. So have no doubts: Four more years of Netanyahu and six more years of Trump won’t just change America and Israel. It will change the world — and not for the better. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Thomas L. Friedman is the foreign affairs Op-Ed columnist. He joined the paper in 1981, and has won three Pulitzer Prizes. He is the author of seven books, including “From Beirut to Jerusalem,” which won the National Book Award.  @tomfriedman • Facebook Supported by The conversation On that we can all agree. On 2020, not so much. By Gail Collins and Bret Stephens Ms. Collins and Mr. Stephens are opinion columnists. They converse every other week. Bret Stephens: Gail, the word is that Robert Mueller may soon send his report to Attorney General William Barr. Do you expect a bombshell, a dud — or just a lot more confusion, depending on what Barr makes public and what Congress chooses to do with its conclusions? Gail Collins: Well, we’ve already got indicted minions. As to Trump himself, I feel very safe voting for “a lot more confusion.” Just on general principles. The Trump presidential campaign was knee-deep in conflicts of interest, many of them involving Russia. But given the man’s general disorganization, I find it hard to imagine the report picking him out as the sinister, canny leader who was orchestrating everything behind the scenes. Still feeling that the real disaster for Trump is going to come with the investigations into his business practices in New York. How about you? Bret: That’s my guess, too. Trump’s $100 million inauguration committee looks like a giant pay-to-play scheme. I still think his alleged campaign-finance violations in connection to the Stormy Daniels and Karen McDougal payoffs are criminal and impeachable. And who knows what else Mueller’s investigation have dredged up about Trump family values. Gail: The family that stays together preys together … Bret: And vice versa. That said, if Mueller finds no clear and credible evidence of collusion or cooperation between the Trump campaign and Russia, it will be a major political victory for the president and a liability for his detractors. Fairly or not, it will call all the other investigations into question, however credible or serious they may be. That’s one of the reasons I’ve been leery of investing too much political capital in wondering what Trump might have done behind people’s backs. It’s what he does every day in plain sight that is much more concerning. Gail: Even if the Mueller investigation fails to produce, we’ll still have a bunch of congressional committees digging up dirt. But I know that’s not as satisfying for a conservative Trump-hater. You’re right that there’s plenty to investigate in his normal day-to-day life. Which horrible things the president has done lately seem most appalling to you? Bret: Well, that list is long. But let me start by praising Trump on a couple of fronts. I think he’s shown moral leadership on Venezuela, by getting much of the world to recognize Juan Guaidó as the legitimate president and drawing attention to the humanitarian catastrophe unfolding under the Maduro regime. And I’m also glad he’s partially reversed course and will keep at least some troops in Syria. I hope he winds up withdrawing none of them so long as they can help protect our Kurdish friends and deter our Syrian, Iranian, Russian and Turkish foes. O.K. Now to the rest. His declaration of a national emergency over border-wall funding is a threat to constitutional government and the separation of powers and sets a precedent that both sides will abuse if the Supreme Court doesn’t stop it. Gail: No disagreement on the national emergency. The fact that you haven’t seen a major uprising of Republicans over that is proof that there’s no real Republican Party anymore, only Trumpism. And I’m looking forward to the next Democratic president declaring that climate change is a national emergency … Bret: His unloading on The New York Times as “a true ENEMY OF THE PEOPLE” is an assault on the First Amendment and the safety of journalists, including us. His hankering for a deal — any deal — with North Korea’s Kim Jong-un so that he can win a Nobel Peace Prize is a danger to peace and stability in Asia. Gail: Our publisher really called Trump out on the danger he is creating for journalists. It’s perilous enough reporting from trouble spots around the globe without having the president of the United States cheerleading for the enemies of a free press. Bret: His desire to start another trade war with Europe, this time over cars, is a threat to global growth and another nail in the coffin of trans-Atlantic unity. His nonstop lies and exaggerations and demagoguery about the purported evils of illegal immigration are an insult to our intelligence and devastating to the G.O.P.’s chances of ever again being a majority party. Gail: I love it when you get on a roll like this. Keep going. Bret: And his overall comportment continues to be a foul stain on the office of the presidency, a moral embarrassment to a majority of Americans, and a blot on the record of liberal democracy. How about you? Gail: Well, you’ve kind of run the table. But I’d add his attempts to undermine women’s reproductive rights. The assault on Planned Parenthood isn’t just about abortion, it’s about the far right’s hatred of anything that gives women the power to decide if and when they want to get pregnant. Can’t tell you what a deep irony it is to have this guy leading that crusade. Bret: I’d call it hypocrisy, not irony, but I’m being pedantic. Gail: And everything about guns and domestic violence. Many people have taken note of the fact that the president tweeted out about the Smollett scandal and the suit against The Washington Post by the Kentucky high school student who was involved in that incident with a Native American in Washington. But not a twittery word about the white supremacist Coast Guard officer who has been accused of stockpiling weapons to murder newscasters and liberal politicians. When reporters asked him about it, all Trump could come up with was, “I think it’s a shame.” That’s the kind of thing you say when a politician gets caught cheating on his wife, not when you’re talking about a self-declared white supremacist intent on a politically inspired mass slaughter. Bret: The Smollett and Covington High stories are fascinating in a cultural sense, mostly for what they tell us about our current culture of victimhood and the assumptions too many people, including too many in our profession, make about who is the victim based on current stereotypes. But the case of the Coast Guard officer is genuinely terrifying given that it comes on the heels of the Florida mail bomber, the Pittsburgh mass killer and the California man charged last year with phoning in death threats to journalists. That’s a terrifying reality of the culture war from which most of the right prefers to look away. Gail: Not long before he announced that he was running for president, Trump went to an N.R.A. convention and got a wild, massive reception. Right then I knew he was going to be a huge gun-rights supporter, no matter what he had believed before. When he was running against Hillary Clinton I thought he was terrible, but not nearly as terrible as he turned out to be. Kind of amazing. Did you foresee all of this? Bret: Partly. I wrote more than a dozen columns for The Wall Street Journal during the last presidential campaign, denouncing his bigotry, lawlessness, ignorance and demagoguery. He vindicates my first impression with his every foul tweet. I think he’s debasing our political culture in ways we will be living with, and suffering from, for at least a generation. And he’s becoming a role model of sorts for other populist demagogues around the world, from Brazil to Italy. Gail: Well, I wrote a lot about what a jerk he’d been in New York for the last 30-odd years. I guess I didn’t take him seriously enough because he’d always behaved like such a fool. Bret: On the other hand, the world didn’t end with his presidency. The economy is robust, we haven’t stumbled into a catastrophic war (yet), and democracy is still alive and well considering all the Democrats planning to run against him. That isn’t to say things might not still go horribly wrong, only that the habit of comparing Trump to despots of yore is off the mark and undermines the case against him. Gail: Right. He’s our own special unique despot wannabe. Bret: But can I switch the subject? Last week The Times ran an eye-opening story on Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota, basically to the effect that she is a truly horrible boss, with some of the highest staff turnover in the Senate. From a policy standpoint she’s my favorite Democrat in the race, but this is a serious issue for her candidacy. How do you think voters should factor that into their considerations? Gail: I’m playing the wait-and-see card. We’re undoubtedly going to find out unpleasant things about a lot of the candidates as we go along. But that story about her using her comb to eat a salad on an airplane and then giving it to her aide to wash is going to … resonate. Your position is that you’ll vote for whoever the Democrats nominate, even if it’s a modern-day Attila the Hun, right? Bret: Definitely not! Of course I can’t vote for Trump under any circumstance. But I would never vote for Bernie Sanders, who seems to think bread lines are a good thing because they’re egalitarian. I couldn’t vote for Elizabeth Warren, either; she’s too far to my left and her prevarications about her ancestry are morally insulting and intellectually embarrassing.  I have personal reservations about Cory Booker, stemming from his deceits as mayor of Newark, and Kamala Harris, stemming from her behavior as a prosecutor. If any of them is the nominee, I will probably write in Bill Weld or John Kasich or Larry Hogan — middle-of-the-road Republicans or former Republicans who know how to win over Democrats and could govern from the center. Gail: Ah, I remember many Republicans who had those sentiments: Trump was appalling and impossible to support, but Hillary Clinton was too far a bridge to cross. And so they voted for people like Gary Johnson, the Libertarian. Which meant they helped put Trump in office. Bret: I voted for Hillary Clinton, even though I had plenty of reservations. But there’s no way I’m going to follow Democrats jumping off the cliff on the left because I’m angry at Republicans for jumping off the cliff on the right. Gail: Really, I have to warn you. If I hear any Trump-hater talking about writing in his mother’s name or the Green Party name or Howard Schultz I immediately decide this is a person who would rather have four more years of Donald Trump than compromise his principles by voting for a deeply imperfect Democrat. Bret: I’m already compromising many of my usual political principles by voting for centrist Democrats, never mind the real lefties. I could vote for Joe Biden, though I doubt he’ll get the nomination, or Senator Michael Bennet from Colorado (our boss’s brother), or any other middle-of-the-road Democrat. That category included Klobuchar, but I have a problem with people who are horrible bosses and don’t have the good sense to use their fingers to eat the way I do. But let’s talk about something our readers really care about: the Oscars. Did you watch? Did your favorites win? Gail: I believe this is the first year ever that I’ve seen all the movies nominated for best picture, and best actress and best actor — and pretty much everything. This is all about avoiding Donald Trump. Since he’s been president I’ve instinctively organized my life around trying to forget about current events for at least a few hours a day. It’s the same reason I’ve been watching football for the first time in my life. But about the winners — I like watching people be genuinely surprised, so I really enjoyed seeing Olivia Colman win for playing the dotty queen in “The Favourite.” How about you? Bret: I saw only a few of the films. But I was thrilled with the win for “Free Solo,” the documentary about climber Alex Honnold that I wrote a column about last year. And I was deeply moved by “Roma.” I grew up in Mexico City, and the movie perfectly captured a world I know very, very well. Nice to see that in this accelerated age of ours there’s still appreciation for a film that takes it slow and goes deep. Gail: And while we’re talking about awards that made me happy — congratulations on winning the Ellis Island Medal of Honor, Bret! I’m so glad your fight for immigrant rights is being recognized. You deserve it. And as a bonus, I can’t think of anything that would irritate Donald Trump more. Bret: Thanks, Gail. Of course I’ll be bringing my mom to the ceremony. This year will be her 69th as an immigrant in this country. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Gail Collins is an Op-Ed columnist, a former member of the editorial board and was the first woman to serve as Times editorial page editor, from 2001 to 2007.  @GailCollins • Facebook  Bret L. Stephens has been an Opinion columnist with The Times since April 2017. He won a Pulitzer Prize for commentary at The Wall Street Journal in 2013 and was previously editor in chief of The Jerusalem Post.  @BretStephensNYT • Facebook 

Supported by The conversation On that we can all agree. On 2020, not so much. By Gail Collins and Bret Stephens Ms. Collins and Mr. Stephens are opinion columnists. They converse every other week. Bret Stephens: Gail, the word is that Robert Mueller may soon send his report to Attorney General William Barr. Do you expect a bombshell, a dud — or just a lot more confusion, depending on what Barr makes public and what Congress chooses to do with its conclusions? Gail Collins: Well, we’ve already got indicted minions. As to Trump himself, I feel very safe voting for “a lot more confusion.” Just on general principles. The Trump presidential campaign was knee-deep in conflicts of interest, many of them involving Russia. But given the man’s general disorganization, I find it hard to imagine the report picking him out as the sinister, canny leader who was orchestrating everything behind the scenes. Still feeling that the real disaster for Trump is going to come with the investigations into his business practices in New York. How about you? Bret: That’s my guess, too. Trump’s $100 million inauguration committee looks like a giant pay-to-play scheme. I still think his alleged campaign-finance violations in connection to the Stormy Daniels and Karen McDougal payoffs are criminal and impeachable. And who knows what else Mueller’s investigation have dredged up about Trump family values. Gail: The family that stays together preys together … Bret: And vice versa. That said, if Mueller finds no clear and credible evidence of collusion or cooperation between the Trump campaign and Russia, it will be a major political victory for the president and a liability for his detractors. Fairly or not, it will call all the other investigations into question, however credible or serious they may be. That’s one of the reasons I’ve been leery of investing too much political capital in wondering what Trump might have done behind people’s backs. It’s what he does every day in plain sight that is much more concerning. Gail: Even if the Mueller investigation fails to produce, we’ll still have a bunch of congressional committees digging up dirt. But I know that’s not as satisfying for a conservative Trump-hater. You’re right that there’s plenty to investigate in his normal day-to-day life. Which horrible things the president has done lately seem most appalling to you? Bret: Well, that list is long. But let me start by praising Trump on a couple of fronts. I think he’s shown moral leadership on Venezuela, by getting much of the world to recognize Juan Guaidó as the legitimate president and drawing attention to the humanitarian catastrophe unfolding under the Maduro regime. And I’m also glad he’s partially reversed course and will keep at least some troops in Syria. I hope he winds up withdrawing none of them so long as they can help protect our Kurdish friends and deter our Syrian, Iranian, Russian and Turkish foes. O.K. Now to the rest. His declaration of a national emergency over border-wall funding is a threat to constitutional government and the separation of powers and sets a precedent that both sides will abuse if the Supreme Court doesn’t stop it. Gail: No disagreement on the national emergency. The fact that you haven’t seen a major uprising of Republicans over that is proof that there’s no real Republican Party anymore, only Trumpism. And I’m looking forward to the next Democratic president declaring that climate change is a national emergency … Bret: His unloading on The New York Times as “a true ENEMY OF THE PEOPLE” is an assault on the First Amendment and the safety of journalists, including us. His hankering for a deal — any deal — with North Korea’s Kim Jong-un so that he can win a Nobel Peace Prize is a danger to peace and stability in Asia. Gail: Our publisher really called Trump out on the danger he is creating for journalists. It’s perilous enough reporting from trouble spots around the globe without having the president of the United States cheerleading for the enemies of a free press. Bret: His desire to start another trade war with Europe, this time over cars, is a threat to global growth and another nail in the coffin of trans-Atlantic unity. His nonstop lies and exaggerations and demagoguery about the purported evils of illegal immigration are an insult to our intelligence and devastating to the G.O.P.’s chances of ever again being a majority party. Gail: I love it when you get on a roll like this. Keep going. Bret: And his overall comportment continues to be a foul stain on the office of the presidency, a moral embarrassment to a majority of Americans, and a blot on the record of liberal democracy. How about you? Gail: Well, you’ve kind of run the table. But I’d add his attempts to undermine women’s reproductive rights. The assault on Planned Parenthood isn’t just about abortion, it’s about the far right’s hatred of anything that gives women the power to decide if and when they want to get pregnant. Can’t tell you what a deep irony it is to have this guy leading that crusade. Bret: I’d call it hypocrisy, not irony, but I’m being pedantic. Gail: And everything about guns and domestic violence. Many people have taken note of the fact that the president tweeted out about the Smollett scandal and the suit against The Washington Post by the Kentucky high school student who was involved in that incident with a Native American in Washington. But not a twittery word about the white supremacist Coast Guard officer who has been accused of stockpiling weapons to murder newscasters and liberal politicians. When reporters asked him about it, all Trump could come up with was, “I think it’s a shame.” That’s the kind of thing you say when a politician gets caught cheating on his wife, not when you’re talking about a self-declared white supremacist intent on a politically inspired mass slaughter. Bret: The Smollett and Covington High stories are fascinating in a cultural sense, mostly for what they tell us about our current culture of victimhood and the assumptions too many people, including too many in our profession, make about who is the victim based on current stereotypes. But the case of the Coast Guard officer is genuinely terrifying given that it comes on the heels of the Florida mail bomber, the Pittsburgh mass killer and the California man charged last year with phoning in death threats to journalists. That’s a terrifying reality of the culture war from which most of the right prefers to look away. Gail: Not long before he announced that he was running for president, Trump went to an N.R.A. convention and got a wild, massive reception. Right then I knew he was going to be a huge gun-rights supporter, no matter what he had believed before. When he was running against Hillary Clinton I thought he was terrible, but not nearly as terrible as he turned out to be. Kind of amazing. Did you foresee all of this? Bret: Partly. I wrote more than a dozen columns for The Wall Street Journal during the last presidential campaign, denouncing his bigotry, lawlessness, ignorance and demagoguery. He vindicates my first impression with his every foul tweet. I think he’s debasing our political culture in ways we will be living with, and suffering from, for at least a generation. And he’s becoming a role model of sorts for other populist demagogues around the world, from Brazil to Italy. Gail: Well, I wrote a lot about what a jerk he’d been in New York for the last 30-odd years. I guess I didn’t take him seriously enough because he’d always behaved like such a fool. Bret: On the other hand, the world didn’t end with his presidency. The economy is robust, we haven’t stumbled into a catastrophic war (yet), and democracy is still alive and well considering all the Democrats planning to run against him. That isn’t to say things might not still go horribly wrong, only that the habit of comparing Trump to despots of yore is off the mark and undermines the case against him. Gail: Right. He’s our own special unique despot wannabe. Bret: But can I switch the subject? Last week The Times ran an eye-opening story on Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota, basically to the effect that she is a truly horrible boss, with some of the highest staff turnover in the Senate. From a policy standpoint she’s my favorite Democrat in the race, but this is a serious issue for her candidacy. How do you think voters should factor that into their considerations? Gail: I’m playing the wait-and-see card. We’re undoubtedly going to find out unpleasant things about a lot of the candidates as we go along. But that story about her using her comb to eat a salad on an airplane and then giving it to her aide to wash is going to … resonate. Your position is that you’ll vote for whoever the Democrats nominate, even if it’s a modern-day Attila the Hun, right? Bret: Definitely not! Of course I can’t vote for Trump under any circumstance. But I would never vote for Bernie Sanders, who seems to think bread lines are a good thing because they’re egalitarian. I couldn’t vote for Elizabeth Warren, either; she’s too far to my left and her prevarications about her ancestry are morally insulting and intellectually embarrassing.  I have personal reservations about Cory Booker, stemming from his deceits as mayor of Newark, and Kamala Harris, stemming from her behavior as a prosecutor. If any of them is the nominee, I will probably write in Bill Weld or John Kasich or Larry Hogan — middle-of-the-road Republicans or former Republicans who know how to win over Democrats and could govern from the center. Gail: Ah, I remember many Republicans who had those sentiments: Trump was appalling and impossible to support, but Hillary Clinton was too far a bridge to cross. And so they voted for people like Gary Johnson, the Libertarian. Which meant they helped put Trump in office. Bret: I voted for Hillary Clinton, even though I had plenty of reservations. But there’s no way I’m going to follow Democrats jumping off the cliff on the left because I’m angry at Republicans for jumping off the cliff on the right. Gail: Really, I have to warn you. If I hear any Trump-hater talking about writing in his mother’s name or the Green Party name or Howard Schultz I immediately decide this is a person who would rather have four more years of Donald Trump than compromise his principles by voting for a deeply imperfect Democrat. Bret: I’m already compromising many of my usual political principles by voting for centrist Democrats, never mind the real lefties. I could vote for Joe Biden, though I doubt he’ll get the nomination, or Senator Michael Bennet from Colorado (our boss’s brother), or any other middle-of-the-road Democrat. That category included Klobuchar, but I have a problem with people who are horrible bosses and don’t have the good sense to use their fingers to eat the way I do. But let’s talk about something our readers really care about: the Oscars. Did you watch? Did your favorites win? Gail: I believe this is the first year ever that I’ve seen all the movies nominated for best picture, and best actress and best actor — and pretty much everything. This is all about avoiding Donald Trump. Since he’s been president I’ve instinctively organized my life around trying to forget about current events for at least a few hours a day. It’s the same reason I’ve been watching football for the first time in my life. But about the winners — I like watching people be genuinely surprised, so I really enjoyed seeing Olivia Colman win for playing the dotty queen in “The Favourite.” How about you? Bret: I saw only a few of the films. But I was thrilled with the win for “Free Solo,” the documentary about climber Alex Honnold that I wrote a column about last year. And I was deeply moved by “Roma.” I grew up in Mexico City, and the movie perfectly captured a world I know very, very well. Nice to see that in this accelerated age of ours there’s still appreciation for a film that takes it slow and goes deep. Gail: And while we’re talking about awards that made me happy — congratulations on winning the Ellis Island Medal of Honor, Bret! I’m so glad your fight for immigrant rights is being recognized. You deserve it. And as a bonus, I can’t think of anything that would irritate Donald Trump more. Bret: Thanks, Gail. Of course I’ll be bringing my mom to the ceremony. This year will be her 69th as an immigrant in this country. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Gail Collins is an Op-Ed columnist, a former member of the editorial board and was the first woman to serve as Times editorial page editor, from 2001 to 2007.  @GailCollins • Facebook  Bret L. Stephens has been an Opinion columnist with The Times since April 2017. He won a Pulitzer Prize for commentary at The Wall Street Journal in 2013 and was previously editor in chief of The Jerusalem Post.  @BretStephensNYT • Facebook Supported by The president has issued threats to foreign countries, domestic corporations and an American state. Then, he retreated. By Michael Tackett and Linda Qiu WASHINGTON — For President Trump, a threat is frequently his first impulse. He is forceful, declarative and speaks with unvarnished conviction. He has made the theme of promises made, promises kept the anthem of his re-election effort. But his threats often remain just that. The most recent example was when Mr. Trump backed down from a vow to close the border with Mexico, instead saying he would give one of the United States’ most essential trading partners a year to deal with the migrant crisis. This came only a day after he had threatened to act if Congress did not bend to his will on the issue. The price of Mexican avocados spiked, but the government of Mexico seemed unmoved. (Mr. Trump has warned Mexico of an impending border closing at least three times before, in October, November and December.) On Friday, before leaving for a trip to the border town of Calexico, Calif., Mr. Trump suggested that his threat against Mexico was still in his holster. “I never changed my mind at all. I may shut it down at some point, but I’d rather do tariffs,” he said. Here is a look at some of Mr. Trump’s more high-profile threats. In retreating from his threat to close the border, Mr. Trump was withdrawing the warning that he issued strongly last week. But on Friday, he offered up another one. He said that the trade deal that the United States had reached with Mexico and Canada, known as the U.S.M.C.A., would not apply if Mexico does not stop Central American migrants from illegally entering the United States. “If for any reason Mexico stops apprehending and bringing the illegals back to where they came from, the U.S. will be forced to Tariff at 25% all cars made in Mexico and shipped over the Border to us. If that doesn’t work, which it will, I will close the Border,” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter. “This will supersede USMCA,” Mr. Trump added. He also threatened an “economic penalty” on Mexico “for the 500 Billion Dollars in illegal DRUGS that are shipped and smuggled through Mexico and across our Southern Border.” Congress has not yet voted on the trade deal. If it does approve the pact — and the president tried to unilaterally abrogate selective provisions of the agreement — it would provoke numerous legal challenges, as well as an uproar from foreign leaders and members of Congress. The president warned Russia in March to “get out” of Venezuela after Moscow dispatched military personnel to the country and offered to send the government of President Nicolás Maduro shipments of food and medicine. He has consistently said that Mr. Maduro must step down and has strongly suggested that United States military intervention was on the table. He also urged the Venezuelan military to rebel. None of those threats have been effective. Mr. Trump has accused the Russian government of bolstering Mr. Maduro while the United States has been rallying support behind Juan Guaidó, the opposition leader. While the United States issued another round of sanctions and visa restrictions last month, Russia has shown no outward signs of backing down, and Mr. Maduro has refused Mr. Trump’s calls that he resign. Mr. Trump has frequently threatened companies, particularly if they were moving jobs overseas. He has directed some of his sharpest language toward General Motors, and Mary Barra, its chief executive. He has demanded that G.M. reopen a plant in Lordstown, Ohio, that the company said it closed because consumer demand had shifted away from the smaller vehicles produced at the plant. He had earlier threatened to cut subsidies for the company and to recoup federal money it had received from the bailout at the height of the financial crisis of 2008. The company has not acceded to his demands, and so far has not suffered any penalty from the government. Beyond regular Twitter posts denouncing the “fake news,” Mr. Trump has also threatened to take regulatory and legal actions against news outlets and television programs. In October 2017, Mr. Trump suggested that he would revoke NBC’s broadcast license after the network published a report he objected to — only to be indirectly refuted days later by Ajit Pai, the chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, who said that his agency “does not have the authority to revoke a license of a broadcast station based on the content.” Nonetheless, Mr. Trump revived the threat in September 2018. One program on the network in particular has drawn the president’s ire: “Saturday Night Live,” which Mr. Trump has said “should be tested in courts,” investigated by the F.C.C.  or — rather vaguely — “should be looked into.” In the fall, after the White House suspended the credentials of Jim Acosta, the chief White House correspondent for CNN, Mr. Trump threatened retaliation against other reporters if they did not “treat the White House with respect.” Mr. Acosta’s press badge was restored and no other White House reporters have had their credentials suspended since. Mr. Trump also threatened in 2018 to end birthright citizenship, a constitutional guarantee that could only be undone by amending the Constitution. In an interview with Axios at the time, the president called the concept “ridiculous” and said “it has to end.” After strong pushback from within his party — Paul D. Ryan, the House speaker at the time, said the president “obviously” could not terminate a constitutional right by executive order — Mr. Trump retreated. The liberal state has drawn Mr. Trump’s displeasure — and Twitter threats — several times during his presidency. In November, Mr. Trump blamed wildfires ravaging California on what he deemed “gross mismanagement of the forests,” warning the state to “remedy now, or no more Fed payments!” (The criticism was misleading, as the majority of California’s forests are federally managed, and the causes of wildfires are complicated and include climate change.) Two months later, in January, Mr. Trump said that state officials had not made adequate remedy and reissued his threat, “Unless they get their act together, which is unlikely, I have ordered FEMA to send no more money,” referring to the Federal Emergency Management Agency. The state scrambled to make sense of Mr. Trump’s renewed threat, and lawmakers from both parties criticized the move. A month later, a spokesman for FEMA told BuzzFeed it had never received a directive. The agency continued to provide assistance to residents affected by the fire. On the same day that Mr. Trump delivered his second warning, FEMA extended the deadline for California residents to apply for disaster assistance to Feb. 15. (It had been Jan. 31.) Federal cost-sharing for debris removal actually increased to 90 percent from 75 percent, and the agency provided more than $347 million in grants and loans to affected residents. After he fired James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director, in May 2017, Mr. Trump urged him to think twice about speaking with reporters and referred to secret recordings of their conversations. “James Comey better hope that there are no ‘tapes’ of our conversations before he starts leaking to the press!” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter. For weeks, Mr. Trump and his aides refused to confirm or deny the existence of such recordings or to clarify if he was simply rebutting Mr. Comey’s claims that he had been asked by the president to pledge his loyalty. Mr. Comey testified before Congress in June, telling lawmakers, “Lordy, I hope there are tapes.” Mr. Trump then cleared it up himself on Twitter, denying that he had taped Mr. Comey in the first place: “I have no idea whether there are ‘tapes’ or recordings of my conversations with James Comey, but I did not make, and do not have, any such recordings.” Michael Tackett covers national politics. He has written about politics for more than 30 years and has covered six presidential elections.  @tackettdc  Linda Qiu is a fact-check reporter, based in Washington. She came to The Times in 2017 from the fact-checking service PolitiFact.  @ylindaqiu 

Supported by The president has issued threats to foreign countries, domestic corporations and an American state. Then, he retreated. By Michael Tackett and Linda Qiu WASHINGTON — For President Trump, a threat is frequently his first impulse. He is forceful, declarative and speaks with unvarnished conviction. He has made the theme of promises made, promises kept the anthem of his re-election effort. But his threats often remain just that. The most recent example was when Mr. Trump backed down from a vow to close the border with Mexico, instead saying he would give one of the United States’ most essential trading partners a year to deal with the migrant crisis. This came only a day after he had threatened to act if Congress did not bend to his will on the issue. The price of Mexican avocados spiked, but the government of Mexico seemed unmoved. (Mr. Trump has warned Mexico of an impending border closing at least three times before, in October, November and December.) On Friday, before leaving for a trip to the border town of Calexico, Calif., Mr. Trump suggested that his threat against Mexico was still in his holster. “I never changed my mind at all. I may shut it down at some point, but I’d rather do tariffs,” he said. Here is a look at some of Mr. Trump’s more high-profile threats. In retreating from his threat to close the border, Mr. Trump was withdrawing the warning that he issued strongly last week. But on Friday, he offered up another one. He said that the trade deal that the United States had reached with Mexico and Canada, known as the U.S.M.C.A., would not apply if Mexico does not stop Central American migrants from illegally entering the United States. “If for any reason Mexico stops apprehending and bringing the illegals back to where they came from, the U.S. will be forced to Tariff at 25% all cars made in Mexico and shipped over the Border to us. If that doesn’t work, which it will, I will close the Border,” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter. “This will supersede USMCA,” Mr. Trump added. He also threatened an “economic penalty” on Mexico “for the 500 Billion Dollars in illegal DRUGS that are shipped and smuggled through Mexico and across our Southern Border.” Congress has not yet voted on the trade deal. If it does approve the pact — and the president tried to unilaterally abrogate selective provisions of the agreement — it would provoke numerous legal challenges, as well as an uproar from foreign leaders and members of Congress. The president warned Russia in March to “get out” of Venezuela after Moscow dispatched military personnel to the country and offered to send the government of President Nicolás Maduro shipments of food and medicine. He has consistently said that Mr. Maduro must step down and has strongly suggested that United States military intervention was on the table. He also urged the Venezuelan military to rebel. None of those threats have been effective. Mr. Trump has accused the Russian government of bolstering Mr. Maduro while the United States has been rallying support behind Juan Guaidó, the opposition leader. While the United States issued another round of sanctions and visa restrictions last month, Russia has shown no outward signs of backing down, and Mr. Maduro has refused Mr. Trump’s calls that he resign. Mr. Trump has frequently threatened companies, particularly if they were moving jobs overseas. He has directed some of his sharpest language toward General Motors, and Mary Barra, its chief executive. He has demanded that G.M. reopen a plant in Lordstown, Ohio, that the company said it closed because consumer demand had shifted away from the smaller vehicles produced at the plant. He had earlier threatened to cut subsidies for the company and to recoup federal money it had received from the bailout at the height of the financial crisis of 2008. The company has not acceded to his demands, and so far has not suffered any penalty from the government. Beyond regular Twitter posts denouncing the “fake news,” Mr. Trump has also threatened to take regulatory and legal actions against news outlets and television programs. In October 2017, Mr. Trump suggested that he would revoke NBC’s broadcast license after the network published a report he objected to — only to be indirectly refuted days later by Ajit Pai, the chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, who said that his agency “does not have the authority to revoke a license of a broadcast station based on the content.” Nonetheless, Mr. Trump revived the threat in September 2018. One program on the network in particular has drawn the president’s ire: “Saturday Night Live,” which Mr. Trump has said “should be tested in courts,” investigated by the F.C.C.  or — rather vaguely — “should be looked into.” In the fall, after the White House suspended the credentials of Jim Acosta, the chief White House correspondent for CNN, Mr. Trump threatened retaliation against other reporters if they did not “treat the White House with respect.” Mr. Acosta’s press badge was restored and no other White House reporters have had their credentials suspended since. Mr. Trump also threatened in 2018 to end birthright citizenship, a constitutional guarantee that could only be undone by amending the Constitution. In an interview with Axios at the time, the president called the concept “ridiculous” and said “it has to end.” After strong pushback from within his party — Paul D. Ryan, the House speaker at the time, said the president “obviously” could not terminate a constitutional right by executive order — Mr. Trump retreated. The liberal state has drawn Mr. Trump’s displeasure — and Twitter threats — several times during his presidency. In November, Mr. Trump blamed wildfires ravaging California on what he deemed “gross mismanagement of the forests,” warning the state to “remedy now, or no more Fed payments!” (The criticism was misleading, as the majority of California’s forests are federally managed, and the causes of wildfires are complicated and include climate change.) Two months later, in January, Mr. Trump said that state officials had not made adequate remedy and reissued his threat, “Unless they get their act together, which is unlikely, I have ordered FEMA to send no more money,” referring to the Federal Emergency Management Agency. The state scrambled to make sense of Mr. Trump’s renewed threat, and lawmakers from both parties criticized the move. A month later, a spokesman for FEMA told BuzzFeed it had never received a directive. The agency continued to provide assistance to residents affected by the fire. On the same day that Mr. Trump delivered his second warning, FEMA extended the deadline for California residents to apply for disaster assistance to Feb. 15. (It had been Jan. 31.) Federal cost-sharing for debris removal actually increased to 90 percent from 75 percent, and the agency provided more than $347 million in grants and loans to affected residents. After he fired James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director, in May 2017, Mr. Trump urged him to think twice about speaking with reporters and referred to secret recordings of their conversations. “James Comey better hope that there are no ‘tapes’ of our conversations before he starts leaking to the press!” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter. For weeks, Mr. Trump and his aides refused to confirm or deny the existence of such recordings or to clarify if he was simply rebutting Mr. Comey’s claims that he had been asked by the president to pledge his loyalty. Mr. Comey testified before Congress in June, telling lawmakers, “Lordy, I hope there are tapes.” Mr. Trump then cleared it up himself on Twitter, denying that he had taped Mr. Comey in the first place: “I have no idea whether there are ‘tapes’ or recordings of my conversations with James Comey, but I did not make, and do not have, any such recordings.” Michael Tackett covers national politics. He has written about politics for more than 30 years and has covered six presidential elections.  @tackettdc  Linda Qiu is a fact-check reporter, based in Washington. She came to The Times in 2017 from the fact-checking service PolitiFact.  @ylindaqiu Supported by The president’s devoted supporters have turned him into a legend of sorts. By Charles M. Blow Opinion Columnist My mother is a devout Democrat, but also one of the most socially conservative people I know. This is typical of our home state of Louisiana among black citizens — they can be as conservative as any Republican, but are also completely convinced, by dint of history and experience, that the Republican Party not only abides racists, it courts them, and therefore they would die rather than vote red. My mother is so austere that she never drank or partied in any way, except for the one time she told me that she went to a nightclub and tried a drink. She didn’t much like the dingy space or the bitter beverage, so she swore them both off. She abhorred the showy, deeming it vulgar, so every single article of clothing in her closet was white, black, brown or navy blue. Red? Yellow? Green? God forbid. And she was unshakable in her sense of moral rectitude, viewing sins like lying, gambling and philandering as absolute corruptions of character. And yet, through my time growing up there and going to college there, she took a devilish pride in enthusiastically supporting and voting for the four-term Democratic governor, Edwin Edwards, a cocksure, gambling womanizer who would end up in federal prison in 2002 for bribery and extortion. On the surface, it doesn’t make sense that my mother, who thought herself a moralist, would find a champion in a flaunting immoralist, but she did as did many other Louisiana voters. And I believe this was possible because Edwards achieved something that few politicians achieve: He transcended the political, and on some level even the rules of the workaday world, and entered the astral league of folk heroes. The rules don’t apply to the folk hero. People don’t measure them by the same tape. Behavior that people would never condone in their personal lives, they relish in the folk hero. I believe that the great miscalculation people make in trying to understand Donald Trump and the cultlike devotion of the people who follow him is that they continue to apply the standard rules of analysis. I believe that, like Edwards, Trump ascended to folk hero status among the people who like him, and so his lying, corruption, sexism and grift not only do no damage, they add to his legend. The folk hero, whether real or imaginary, often fights the establishment, often in devious, destructive and even deadly ways, and those outside that establishment cheer as the folk hero brings the beast to its knees. The only vulnerability the folk hero has is an exposed betrayal of the folk. Trump fawns over his base, and they reciprocate. Edwards once joked on the eve of one of his elections, “The only way I can lose this election is if I’m caught in bed with either a dead girl or a live boy.” He won, of course. This is not wholly unlike Trump joking — bragging? — that “I could stand in the middle of Fifth Avenue and shoot somebody and wouldn’t lose any voters, O.K.?” He won, of course. I think it is a mistake to believe that Trump’s supporters don’t see his lying or corruption. They do. But, to them, it is all part of the show and the lore. They have personal relationships and work relationships like the rest of us, and those relationships depend on honesty and virtue. They, like my mother did, are allowing in him something that they would not allow in themselves. And, when you survey the constellation of folk heroes, you see that many have been criminals. Bonnie and Clyde. John Dillinger. The Sundance Kid. I would also argue that some other recent troubled, corrupt or corrosive politicians came close to the definition without receiving the designation. The former Washington, D.C., mayor, Marion Barry. The former Toronto mayor, Rob Ford. The former Maine governor, Paul LePage. And this elastic morality around the folk hero appears to be a global human inclination. El Chapo, who, as CNN pointed out, “Claimed in 2014 that he has killed 2,000-3,000 people,” was a folk hero in Mexico. Like Edwards and Bonnie and Clyde and El Chapo, Trump’s Br’er Rabbit-like ability to avert the best attempt by authorities to hold him accountable, at least for a while, only increases the chorus of applause. Perhaps one of the most popular folk heroes in the world is mythological: Chinese folklore’s Monkey King. The British Council wrote of his legend: “Despite his superpowers, at the heart of the Monkey King’s appeal is his human fallibility — he is greedy, selfish, and prone to sudden changes of mood and outbursts of exceptional violence. He defies divine authority, laughs at attempts to be controlled, and leaves chaos in his wake. But we know that there is fundamental good within him. He is the misbehaving child who only needs a firm hand and a sense of purpose to come good.” Sound familiar? Anti-Trump forces must stop operating as if they are doing battle with a liar; they are doing battle with what his supporters have fashioned into a legend. How does one fight a fiction, a fantasy? That’s the question. Its answer is the path to America’s salvation. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and Instagram.  Charles Blow joined The Times in 1994 and became an Opinion columnist in 2008. He is also a television commentator and writes often about politics, social justice and vulnerable communities.  @CharlesMBlow • Facebook 

Supported by The president’s devoted supporters have turned him into a legend of sorts. By Charles M. Blow Opinion Columnist My mother is a devout Democrat, but also one of the most socially conservative people I know. This is typical of our home state of Louisiana among black citizens — they can be as conservative as any Republican, but are also completely convinced, by dint of history and experience, that the Republican Party not only abides racists, it courts them, and therefore they would die rather than vote red. My mother is so austere that she never drank or partied in any way, except for the one time she told me that she went to a nightclub and tried a drink. She didn’t much like the dingy space or the bitter beverage, so she swore them both off. She abhorred the showy, deeming it vulgar, so every single article of clothing in her closet was white, black, brown or navy blue. Red? Yellow? Green? God forbid. And she was unshakable in her sense of moral rectitude, viewing sins like lying, gambling and philandering as absolute corruptions of character. And yet, through my time growing up there and going to college there, she took a devilish pride in enthusiastically supporting and voting for the four-term Democratic governor, Edwin Edwards, a cocksure, gambling womanizer who would end up in federal prison in 2002 for bribery and extortion. On the surface, it doesn’t make sense that my mother, who thought herself a moralist, would find a champion in a flaunting immoralist, but she did as did many other Louisiana voters. And I believe this was possible because Edwards achieved something that few politicians achieve: He transcended the political, and on some level even the rules of the workaday world, and entered the astral league of folk heroes. The rules don’t apply to the folk hero. People don’t measure them by the same tape. Behavior that people would never condone in their personal lives, they relish in the folk hero. I believe that the great miscalculation people make in trying to understand Donald Trump and the cultlike devotion of the people who follow him is that they continue to apply the standard rules of analysis. I believe that, like Edwards, Trump ascended to folk hero status among the people who like him, and so his lying, corruption, sexism and grift not only do no damage, they add to his legend. The folk hero, whether real or imaginary, often fights the establishment, often in devious, destructive and even deadly ways, and those outside that establishment cheer as the folk hero brings the beast to its knees. The only vulnerability the folk hero has is an exposed betrayal of the folk. Trump fawns over his base, and they reciprocate. Edwards once joked on the eve of one of his elections, “The only way I can lose this election is if I’m caught in bed with either a dead girl or a live boy.” He won, of course. This is not wholly unlike Trump joking — bragging? — that “I could stand in the middle of Fifth Avenue and shoot somebody and wouldn’t lose any voters, O.K.?” He won, of course. I think it is a mistake to believe that Trump’s supporters don’t see his lying or corruption. They do. But, to them, it is all part of the show and the lore. They have personal relationships and work relationships like the rest of us, and those relationships depend on honesty and virtue. They, like my mother did, are allowing in him something that they would not allow in themselves. And, when you survey the constellation of folk heroes, you see that many have been criminals. Bonnie and Clyde. John Dillinger. The Sundance Kid. I would also argue that some other recent troubled, corrupt or corrosive politicians came close to the definition without receiving the designation. The former Washington, D.C., mayor, Marion Barry. The former Toronto mayor, Rob Ford. The former Maine governor, Paul LePage. And this elastic morality around the folk hero appears to be a global human inclination. El Chapo, who, as CNN pointed out, “Claimed in 2014 that he has killed 2,000-3,000 people,” was a folk hero in Mexico. Like Edwards and Bonnie and Clyde and El Chapo, Trump’s Br’er Rabbit-like ability to avert the best attempt by authorities to hold him accountable, at least for a while, only increases the chorus of applause. Perhaps one of the most popular folk heroes in the world is mythological: Chinese folklore’s Monkey King. The British Council wrote of his legend: “Despite his superpowers, at the heart of the Monkey King’s appeal is his human fallibility — he is greedy, selfish, and prone to sudden changes of mood and outbursts of exceptional violence. He defies divine authority, laughs at attempts to be controlled, and leaves chaos in his wake. But we know that there is fundamental good within him. He is the misbehaving child who only needs a firm hand and a sense of purpose to come good.” Sound familiar? Anti-Trump forces must stop operating as if they are doing battle with a liar; they are doing battle with what his supporters have fashioned into a legend. How does one fight a fiction, a fantasy? That’s the question. Its answer is the path to America’s salvation. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and Instagram.  Charles Blow joined The Times in 1994 and became an Opinion columnist in 2008. He is also a television commentator and writes often about politics, social justice and vulnerable communities.  @CharlesMBlow • Facebook Supported by By Alexander Burns and Jonathan Martin On Election Day in 2016, the Republican Party was divided against itself, split over its nominee for president, Donald J. Trump. In Ohio, a crucial battleground, the state party chairman had repeatedly chided Mr. Trump in public, amplifying the concerns of Gov. John Kasich, a Republican dissenter. In New Hampshire, the party chairman harbored deep, if largely private, misgivings about her party’s nominee. The Republican Party of Florida was listing, hobbled by local feuds and a rift between donors loyal to Senator Marco Rubio and former Gov. Jeb Bush and those backing the man who humiliated both in the primaries. Those power struggles have now been resolved in a one-sided fashion. In every state important to the 2020 race, Mr. Trump and his lieutenants are in firm control of the Republican electoral machinery, and they are taking steps to extend and tighten their grip. It is, in every institutional sense, Mr. Trump’s party. As Mr. Trump has prepared to embark on a difficult fight for re-election, a small but ferocious operation within his campaign has helped install loyal allies atop the most significant state parties and urged them to speak up loudly to discourage conservative criticism of Mr. Trump. The campaign has dispatched aides to state party conclaves, Republican executive committee meetings and fund-raising dinners, all with the aim of ensuring the delegates at next year’s  convention in Charlotte, N.C., are utterly committed to Mr. Trump. [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join the conversation around the 2020 presidential race.] To Joe Gruters, who was co-chairman of Mr. Trump’s campaign in Florida and now leads the state party, the local Republican Party is effectively a regional arm of the president’s re-election effort. “I’ve had probably 10 conversations with the Trump team about the delegate selection process in Florida,” Mr. Gruters said, adding of a potential Republican primary battle, “The base of the party loves our president, and if anybody runs against him, they are going to get absolutely smashed.” State and local Republican organizations typically operate below the radar of national politics, but they can be vital to the success of a presidential candidate. Party chairmen and their deputies are tasked with everything from raising money to deploying volunteers to knock on doors, and in many states they help choose delegates for the nominating convention. For Mr. Trump, who prevailed in 2016 as an outsider with little connection to his party’s electoral apparatus, the ability to control the levers of Republican politics at the state level could make the difference in a close election or a contested primary. It also leaves other Republicans with precious little room to oppose Mr. Trump on his policy preferences or administrative whims — on matters from health care to the Mexican border — for fear of retribution from within the party. Mr. Trump’s aides have focused most intently on heading off any dissent at the Charlotte convention: To that end, two of Mr. Trump’s top campaign aides, Bill Stepien and Justin Clark, have worked quietly but methodically in a series of states where control of the local party was up for grabs. They have lifted Mr. Trump’s allies even in deep-blue states like Massachusetts, and worked to make peace between competing pro-Trump factions in more competitive states such as Colorado. The devotion to Mr. Trump was on clear display Saturday outside Denver, where the state party gathered to elect a new chairman. Though Mr. Trump’s unpopularity helped drive Colorado Republicans to deep losses last fall, there was no sign of unrest: Mr. Trump’s name was emblazoned on lapel pins and a flag toted by one candidate for the chairmanship, and his slogan — “Make America Great Again” — was printed on the red hat from which the candidates drew lots to determine their speaking order. Mr. Trump himself stayed out of the race, and campaign aides sent the White House a short memo last month urging the president not to pick sides between allies after Representative Ken Buck, a deeply conservative candidate, lobbied administration officials for support. But when Mr. Buck claimed victory in the race for chairman, he described his mission in terms of unflinching loyalty to the president. “The key is that we make sure that the voters of Colorado understand the great job the president has done,” Mr. Buck said. “That is what my job is.” Mr. Trump faces at least a quixotic challenge in the Republican primaries from William F. Weld, a moderate former governor of Massachusetts, and other Republicans have toyed with entering the race. But advisers to Mr. Trump view it as an urgent priority to maintain Republican support: With low approval ratings among voters at large, including educated whites who once leaned Republican, Mr. Trump can ill afford additional fractures on the right. So far, loyalty has prevailed. “There is no challenge to the president,” declared John Watson, a former supporter of Mr. Kasich who now leads the Georgia Republican Party. “The party is in near-unanimous lock step in support of him, certainly at the activist and delegate level.” In some respects, the shift toward Mr. Trump in Republican state organizations has been organic, driven by the president’s immense popularity with the party’s most committed voters. In Arizona, an emerging presidential swing state, conservative activists in January ejected a chairman aligned with the Republican establishment in favor of Kelli Ward, a former Senate candidate with fringe views who tied herself closely to Mr. Trump. But Mr. Trump and his aides have also taken a more active hand in shaping the party leadership around the country, mostly to their own great advantage, according to half a dozen Republicans briefed on the Trump campaign’s loyalty operation. A division of the Trump campaign known as the Delegates and Party Organization unit has closely tracked state party leadership elections and occasionally weighed in to help a preferred contender. In Michigan, for instance, Mr. Trump’s campaign manager, Brad Parscale, recently endorsed a former state legislator, Laura Cox, to take over Michigan’s discombobulated state party. The Trump campaign has also taken steps to blunt the influence of a few Republican governors who are hostile to the president. In Massachusetts, Trump aides worked in January to help a hard-line candidate, Jim Lyons, win the chairmanship against a candidate linked closely to the state’s Republican governor, Charlie Baker, who is a critic of Mr. Trump. (As a candidate, Mr. Lyons vowed to “make the Massachusetts Republican Party great again.”) In Maryland, where Gov. Larry Hogan has mused about challenging Mr. Trump, presidential loyalists in the party apparatus are prepared to flout Mr. Hogan’s wishes in selecting delegates. In Maryland and some other states, convention delegates are selected by a combination of primary voters and members of the state party committee — constituencies overwhelmingly supportive of Mr. Trump. “No other candidate, no matter if it’s Governor Hogan, Bill Weld or anybody else, will get one single delegate out of Maryland,” said David Bossie, the state’s R.N.C. committeeman and an adviser to Mr. Trump. Some states are so fully in the grips of Trump enthusiasts that the campaign has sought to keep Mr. Trump neutral in local races, out of concern that he could alienate one supportive faction or another. In Rhode Island last weekend, the campaign dispatched an aide to answer questions from party activists about Mr. Trump’s view of the race for state chairman, after Sean Spicer, the former White House press secretary, reportedly made calls on behalf of a candidate who was ultimately defeated. The Trump campaign made clear that Mr. Spicer had been acting on his own, a person familiar with the conversations said. Last month, several top Trump strategists, including Mr. Stepien and Mr. Clark, informed the president directly on the efforts to lock down party organizations for his re-election, people briefed on the meeting said. In a statement, Mr. Clark described the operation as part of a long run-up to the 2020 convention. “Like any good campaign operation, we are working to ensure that state party chairs and delegates reflect the will of Republican voters, who support President Trump in record numbers,” Mr. Clark said. “Our goal is to pave the way for a convention in Charlotte that gives the president a multiday platform to share his achievements with 300 million Americans.” Though the Republican National Committee has stopped short of formally endorsing Mr. Trump, state chairmen elected with the help of Mr. Trump’s campaign have defended him fiercely, even from Mr. Weld’s long-shot effort. When the former Massachusetts governor rolled out his campaign, Mr. Lyons blasted him harshly, as did Stephen Stepanek, a former co-chairman for the Trump campaign in New Hampshire who now leads that state’s Republican Party. That hard-edge approach has stirred some discomfort in New Hampshire, where some traditional Republicans prize the state’s reputation for political independence and have resisted efforts to quash an open primary. Steve Duprey, a member of the Republican National Committee from the state, hosted Mr. Weld there in late March and argued that New Hampshire’s "special role” as an early-voting state required it to be open to candidates besides Mr. Trump. He said in an interview he believed primary competition was healthy, as a general matter. “Our job is to be neutral and treat them all equally, period,” argued Mr. Duprey, who was a close adviser to John McCain. There are still elements of the Republican Party that have yet to fall fully in line behind the president, Republicans acknowledge. The party suffered serious defections in 2018 among moderate white voters who have historically tended to support Republicans, and some of the party’s traditional financial backers have not yet committed to supporting him in 2020. Advisers to Mr. Trump acknowledge that mobilizing the party’s major-donor base remains one of the most important challenges for his campaign. But there is no comparable reticence among the Republican Party’s field captains in the states. At the meeting in Colorado over the weekend, Vera Ortegon, the state’s R.N.C. committeewoman, alluded to the president’s nagging Republican critics in the form of a stern warning. “If you know any Never Trumpers,” Ms. Ortegon said, “send them to me.” Jackson Barnett contributed reporting from Denver.

Supported by By Alexander Burns and Jonathan Martin On Election Day in 2016, the Republican Party was divided against itself, split over its nominee for president, Donald J. Trump. In Ohio, a crucial battleground, the state party chairman had repeatedly chided Mr. Trump in public, amplifying the concerns of Gov. John Kasich, a Republican dissenter. In New Hampshire, the party chairman harbored deep, if largely private, misgivings about her party’s nominee. The Republican Party of Florida was listing, hobbled by local feuds and a rift between donors loyal to Senator Marco Rubio and former Gov. Jeb Bush and those backing the man who humiliated both in the primaries. Those power struggles have now been resolved in a one-sided fashion. In every state important to the 2020 race, Mr. Trump and his lieutenants are in firm control of the Republican electoral machinery, and they are taking steps to extend and tighten their grip. It is, in every institutional sense, Mr. Trump’s party. As Mr. Trump has prepared to embark on a difficult fight for re-election, a small but ferocious operation within his campaign has helped install loyal allies atop the most significant state parties and urged them to speak up loudly to discourage conservative criticism of Mr. Trump. The campaign has dispatched aides to state party conclaves, Republican executive committee meetings and fund-raising dinners, all with the aim of ensuring the delegates at next year’s  convention in Charlotte, N.C., are utterly committed to Mr. Trump. [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join the conversation around the 2020 presidential race.] To Joe Gruters, who was co-chairman of Mr. Trump’s campaign in Florida and now leads the state party, the local Republican Party is effectively a regional arm of the president’s re-election effort. “I’ve had probably 10 conversations with the Trump team about the delegate selection process in Florida,” Mr. Gruters said, adding of a potential Republican primary battle, “The base of the party loves our president, and if anybody runs against him, they are going to get absolutely smashed.” State and local Republican organizations typically operate below the radar of national politics, but they can be vital to the success of a presidential candidate. Party chairmen and their deputies are tasked with everything from raising money to deploying volunteers to knock on doors, and in many states they help choose delegates for the nominating convention. For Mr. Trump, who prevailed in 2016 as an outsider with little connection to his party’s electoral apparatus, the ability to control the levers of Republican politics at the state level could make the difference in a close election or a contested primary. It also leaves other Republicans with precious little room to oppose Mr. Trump on his policy preferences or administrative whims — on matters from health care to the Mexican border — for fear of retribution from within the party. Mr. Trump’s aides have focused most intently on heading off any dissent at the Charlotte convention: To that end, two of Mr. Trump’s top campaign aides, Bill Stepien and Justin Clark, have worked quietly but methodically in a series of states where control of the local party was up for grabs. They have lifted Mr. Trump’s allies even in deep-blue states like Massachusetts, and worked to make peace between competing pro-Trump factions in more competitive states such as Colorado. The devotion to Mr. Trump was on clear display Saturday outside Denver, where the state party gathered to elect a new chairman. Though Mr. Trump’s unpopularity helped drive Colorado Republicans to deep losses last fall, there was no sign of unrest: Mr. Trump’s name was emblazoned on lapel pins and a flag toted by one candidate for the chairmanship, and his slogan — “Make America Great Again” — was printed on the red hat from which the candidates drew lots to determine their speaking order. Mr. Trump himself stayed out of the race, and campaign aides sent the White House a short memo last month urging the president not to pick sides between allies after Representative Ken Buck, a deeply conservative candidate, lobbied administration officials for support. But when Mr. Buck claimed victory in the race for chairman, he described his mission in terms of unflinching loyalty to the president. “The key is that we make sure that the voters of Colorado understand the great job the president has done,” Mr. Buck said. “That is what my job is.” Mr. Trump faces at least a quixotic challenge in the Republican primaries from William F. Weld, a moderate former governor of Massachusetts, and other Republicans have toyed with entering the race. But advisers to Mr. Trump view it as an urgent priority to maintain Republican support: With low approval ratings among voters at large, including educated whites who once leaned Republican, Mr. Trump can ill afford additional fractures on the right. So far, loyalty has prevailed. “There is no challenge to the president,” declared John Watson, a former supporter of Mr. Kasich who now leads the Georgia Republican Party. “The party is in near-unanimous lock step in support of him, certainly at the activist and delegate level.” In some respects, the shift toward Mr. Trump in Republican state organizations has been organic, driven by the president’s immense popularity with the party’s most committed voters. In Arizona, an emerging presidential swing state, conservative activists in January ejected a chairman aligned with the Republican establishment in favor of Kelli Ward, a former Senate candidate with fringe views who tied herself closely to Mr. Trump. But Mr. Trump and his aides have also taken a more active hand in shaping the party leadership around the country, mostly to their own great advantage, according to half a dozen Republicans briefed on the Trump campaign’s loyalty operation. A division of the Trump campaign known as the Delegates and Party Organization unit has closely tracked state party leadership elections and occasionally weighed in to help a preferred contender. In Michigan, for instance, Mr. Trump’s campaign manager, Brad Parscale, recently endorsed a former state legislator, Laura Cox, to take over Michigan’s discombobulated state party. The Trump campaign has also taken steps to blunt the influence of a few Republican governors who are hostile to the president. In Massachusetts, Trump aides worked in January to help a hard-line candidate, Jim Lyons, win the chairmanship against a candidate linked closely to the state’s Republican governor, Charlie Baker, who is a critic of Mr. Trump. (As a candidate, Mr. Lyons vowed to “make the Massachusetts Republican Party great again.”) In Maryland, where Gov. Larry Hogan has mused about challenging Mr. Trump, presidential loyalists in the party apparatus are prepared to flout Mr. Hogan’s wishes in selecting delegates. In Maryland and some other states, convention delegates are selected by a combination of primary voters and members of the state party committee — constituencies overwhelmingly supportive of Mr. Trump. “No other candidate, no matter if it’s Governor Hogan, Bill Weld or anybody else, will get one single delegate out of Maryland,” said David Bossie, the state’s R.N.C. committeeman and an adviser to Mr. Trump. Some states are so fully in the grips of Trump enthusiasts that the campaign has sought to keep Mr. Trump neutral in local races, out of concern that he could alienate one supportive faction or another. In Rhode Island last weekend, the campaign dispatched an aide to answer questions from party activists about Mr. Trump’s view of the race for state chairman, after Sean Spicer, the former White House press secretary, reportedly made calls on behalf of a candidate who was ultimately defeated. The Trump campaign made clear that Mr. Spicer had been acting on his own, a person familiar with the conversations said. Last month, several top Trump strategists, including Mr. Stepien and Mr. Clark, informed the president directly on the efforts to lock down party organizations for his re-election, people briefed on the meeting said. In a statement, Mr. Clark described the operation as part of a long run-up to the 2020 convention. “Like any good campaign operation, we are working to ensure that state party chairs and delegates reflect the will of Republican voters, who support President Trump in record numbers,” Mr. Clark said. “Our goal is to pave the way for a convention in Charlotte that gives the president a multiday platform to share his achievements with 300 million Americans.” Though the Republican National Committee has stopped short of formally endorsing Mr. Trump, state chairmen elected with the help of Mr. Trump’s campaign have defended him fiercely, even from Mr. Weld’s long-shot effort. When the former Massachusetts governor rolled out his campaign, Mr. Lyons blasted him harshly, as did Stephen Stepanek, a former co-chairman for the Trump campaign in New Hampshire who now leads that state’s Republican Party. That hard-edge approach has stirred some discomfort in New Hampshire, where some traditional Republicans prize the state’s reputation for political independence and have resisted efforts to quash an open primary. Steve Duprey, a member of the Republican National Committee from the state, hosted Mr. Weld there in late March and argued that New Hampshire’s "special role” as an early-voting state required it to be open to candidates besides Mr. Trump. He said in an interview he believed primary competition was healthy, as a general matter. “Our job is to be neutral and treat them all equally, period,” argued Mr. Duprey, who was a close adviser to John McCain. There are still elements of the Republican Party that have yet to fall fully in line behind the president, Republicans acknowledge. The party suffered serious defections in 2018 among moderate white voters who have historically tended to support Republicans, and some of the party’s traditional financial backers have not yet committed to supporting him in 2020. Advisers to Mr. Trump acknowledge that mobilizing the party’s major-donor base remains one of the most important challenges for his campaign. But there is no comparable reticence among the Republican Party’s field captains in the states. At the meeting in Colorado over the weekend, Vera Ortegon, the state’s R.N.C. committeewoman, alluded to the president’s nagging Republican critics in the form of a stern warning. “If you know any Never Trumpers,” Ms. Ortegon said, “send them to me.” Jackson Barnett contributed reporting from Denver.Supported by A close look at the 2018 midterm results shows why he is so weak. By David Leonhardt Opinion Columnist Now that a new Congress has taken office, the vote count from the 2018 midterms is all but final. It shows that Democrats won the national popular vote in the House races by almost nine percentage points. That margin is smashing — larger, by comparison, than in any presidential race since Ronald Reagan’s 1984 re-election landslide. The size of the victory has gone somewhat overlooked, because election-night story lines still have an outsize influence on people’s perceptions. On election night, more than a dozen House races were still uncertain, and Democrats were suffering disappointing losses in several (mostly red-state) Senate and governor races. But the final story of the 2018 midterms should be clear: They were a giant warning sign to the Republican Party, also known as the Party of Trump. Without a significant improvement in Trump’s standing, he would be a big underdog in 2020. Remember, presidential elections have higher turnout than midterms, and the larger electorate helps Democrats. At least 10 million more people — and maybe many more — are likely to vote in the next presidential election than voted in the 2018 midterms. Those extra votes, many from younger or nonwhite Americans, would make Trump’s re-election all the more difficult. It’s not just Trump, either. If his approval rating doesn’t rise over the next two years, multiple Senate Republicans will be in trouble. I’ve long assumed that Susan Collins of Maine could win re-election for as long as she wanted. But she may not be able to do so if Trump loses Maine by 15 percentage points — which was the combined Republican deficit in Maine’s two midterm congressional races. Then there is Cory Gardner of Colorado (where Republicans lost the 2018 popular vote deficit by more than 10 percentage points), Joni Ernst of Iowa (where the Republican deficit was four points) and Martha McSally of Arizona (where it was two points). If Trump’s popularity were to drop at all, another batch of senators — from North Carolina, Texas and Georgia, three states where Republicans only narrowly won the 2018 popular vote — would become more endangered. Even Kansas elected a Democratic governor last year, and it will have an open Senate seat in 2020. On Friday, Pat Roberts, the Republican incumbent, announced he would not run again. Over the weekend, I published a column making the case that Trump deserved to be removed from office — that he has violated both federal law and his constitutional oath, that he is manifestly unfit to be president and that his continued tenure is a danger to the country. Of course, regardless of these dangers or his sins, he will remain in office so long as congressional Republicans want him there. And I know that many people, from across the ideological spectrum, believe that Trump’s standing with Republicans remains secure. I think he is more vulnerable than many people realize. First, there are the political risks that his current standing creates for other Republicans. It’s true that his approval rating has been notably stable, around 40 percent. It’s also notably weak. Thus the Republican whupping in the midterms. Second, Trump’s political fortunes are more likely to deteriorate than improve this year. The economy isn’t likely to get a lot stronger. The various investigations aren’t going away. And Trump will surely commit more unforced errors, like the government shutdown. “It’s still difficult to predict how all this ends,” the political scientist Jonathan Bernstein wrote on Friday, about the shutdown. “But it’s hard to see it ending well for Republicans.” Third, Republican support for Trump may remain broad, but it’s shallow. Trump has already faced far more intra-party criticism than most presidents. Since the midterms, it seems to be growing. Jim Mattis, the defense secretary, resigned and criticized Trump while doing so. Mitt Romney entered the Senate by once again turning against Trump. Collins and Gardner have started grumbling about the shutdown. As Republicans begin looking nervously to 2020, their willingness to break with Trump may increase. For some of them, their political survival may depend on breaking with him. If that happens, it’s quite possible that his approval rating will begin to drift below 40 percent — and the bad news will then feed on itself. No, none of this is guaranteed. Democrats could overreach, by quickly impeaching Trump and thereby uniting Republicans. Or Trump could end up navigating the next few months surprisingly well. But that’s not the mostly likely scenario. The normal rules of politics really do apply to Trump. He won a shocking victory in 2016, and his opponents have lacked confidence ever since. They should no longer lack it. Donald Trump still has great power as the president of the United States. But as presidents go, he is very weak. His opponents — Democrats, independents and Republicans who understand the damage he is doing to the country — should be feeling energized. [I write an email newsletter, published every weekday, with my commentary on the news and reading suggestions from around the web. It’s free, and you can subscribe here.]  Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt • Facebook 

Supported by A close look at the 2018 midterm results shows why he is so weak. By David Leonhardt Opinion Columnist Now that a new Congress has taken office, the vote count from the 2018 midterms is all but final. It shows that Democrats won the national popular vote in the House races by almost nine percentage points. That margin is smashing — larger, by comparison, than in any presidential race since Ronald Reagan’s 1984 re-election landslide. The size of the victory has gone somewhat overlooked, because election-night story lines still have an outsize influence on people’s perceptions. On election night, more than a dozen House races were still uncertain, and Democrats were suffering disappointing losses in several (mostly red-state) Senate and governor races. But the final story of the 2018 midterms should be clear: They were a giant warning sign to the Republican Party, also known as the Party of Trump. Without a significant improvement in Trump’s standing, he would be a big underdog in 2020. Remember, presidential elections have higher turnout than midterms, and the larger electorate helps Democrats. At least 10 million more people — and maybe many more — are likely to vote in the next presidential election than voted in the 2018 midterms. Those extra votes, many from younger or nonwhite Americans, would make Trump’s re-election all the more difficult. It’s not just Trump, either. If his approval rating doesn’t rise over the next two years, multiple Senate Republicans will be in trouble. I’ve long assumed that Susan Collins of Maine could win re-election for as long as she wanted. But she may not be able to do so if Trump loses Maine by 15 percentage points — which was the combined Republican deficit in Maine’s two midterm congressional races. Then there is Cory Gardner of Colorado (where Republicans lost the 2018 popular vote deficit by more than 10 percentage points), Joni Ernst of Iowa (where the Republican deficit was four points) and Martha McSally of Arizona (where it was two points). If Trump’s popularity were to drop at all, another batch of senators — from North Carolina, Texas and Georgia, three states where Republicans only narrowly won the 2018 popular vote — would become more endangered. Even Kansas elected a Democratic governor last year, and it will have an open Senate seat in 2020. On Friday, Pat Roberts, the Republican incumbent, announced he would not run again. Over the weekend, I published a column making the case that Trump deserved to be removed from office — that he has violated both federal law and his constitutional oath, that he is manifestly unfit to be president and that his continued tenure is a danger to the country. Of course, regardless of these dangers or his sins, he will remain in office so long as congressional Republicans want him there. And I know that many people, from across the ideological spectrum, believe that Trump’s standing with Republicans remains secure. I think he is more vulnerable than many people realize. First, there are the political risks that his current standing creates for other Republicans. It’s true that his approval rating has been notably stable, around 40 percent. It’s also notably weak. Thus the Republican whupping in the midterms. Second, Trump’s political fortunes are more likely to deteriorate than improve this year. The economy isn’t likely to get a lot stronger. The various investigations aren’t going away. And Trump will surely commit more unforced errors, like the government shutdown. “It’s still difficult to predict how all this ends,” the political scientist Jonathan Bernstein wrote on Friday, about the shutdown. “But it’s hard to see it ending well for Republicans.” Third, Republican support for Trump may remain broad, but it’s shallow. Trump has already faced far more intra-party criticism than most presidents. Since the midterms, it seems to be growing. Jim Mattis, the defense secretary, resigned and criticized Trump while doing so. Mitt Romney entered the Senate by once again turning against Trump. Collins and Gardner have started grumbling about the shutdown. As Republicans begin looking nervously to 2020, their willingness to break with Trump may increase. For some of them, their political survival may depend on breaking with him. If that happens, it’s quite possible that his approval rating will begin to drift below 40 percent — and the bad news will then feed on itself. No, none of this is guaranteed. Democrats could overreach, by quickly impeaching Trump and thereby uniting Republicans. Or Trump could end up navigating the next few months surprisingly well. But that’s not the mostly likely scenario. The normal rules of politics really do apply to Trump. He won a shocking victory in 2016, and his opponents have lacked confidence ever since. They should no longer lack it. Donald Trump still has great power as the president of the United States. But as presidents go, he is very weak. His opponents — Democrats, independents and Republicans who understand the damage he is doing to the country — should be feeling energized. [I write an email newsletter, published every weekday, with my commentary on the news and reading suggestions from around the web. It’s free, and you can subscribe here.]  Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt • Facebook Supported by The administration’s chaotic reversals on Obamacare could deprive millions of coverage. By Steven Rattner Mr. Rattner was counselor to the treasury secretary and head of the White House auto task force in the Obama administration. In Donald Trump’s two-plus years as president, his approach to policymaking has often been defined by an unsavory stew of indecision, inaction, flip-flops and outright lies. Nowhere has this been truer than with health care, where the administration has reversed direction multiple times. A short history: During his presidential campaign, Mr. Trump said he would produce a health care plan that provided universal coverage and also promised that he would not cut Medicare or Medicaid. “Everybody’s got to be covered,” Mr. Trump told “60 Minutes,” a position that he repeated regularly until he took office. Then he began backing proposals that would eviscerate the Affordable Care Act and severely damage the other programs. On his first day in office, Mr. Trump signed an executive order directing government agencies to scale back as much of the A.C.A. as possible while the White House sought “prompt repeal” of the law. That was followed by nearly a year of wrangling in Congress as Republicans tried to craft a bill that could attract majorities in both houses. The effort fell short in September 2017 when John McCain cast the deciding vote against the so-called skinny repeal, which would have cost 16 million Americans their insurance by 2021 and sent premiums soaring for those still covered. Like the elephant who never forgets, Mr. Trump continues to hammer Mr. McCain, now deceased, over that vote, even as he professes to be working on a plan to improve health care coverage. Meanwhile, the administration’s latest budget, released in mid-March, stands behind legislation known as “Graham-Cassidy,” which was pushed by Republicans in 2017 but never won enough support to be brought to a vote. The Trojan horse of health care reform, the proposal provides for relatively small initial cuts in federal funding and then huge reductions starting in 2027. According to a Brookings Institution report, Graham-Cassidy would cost 32 million Americans their health insurance by 2027, just as full repeal would. That’s Donald Trump’s idea of a “beautiful,” “terrific” and “unbelievable” health care plan. In the meantime, new regulations — issued pursuant to the president’s Inauguration Day executive order — have chipped away at the A.C.A., leading to a drop in enrollments through the exchanges from 12.7 million in 2016 to 11.4 million this year. Then there’s the legal front.  The administration’s recent decision to submit a brief in a Texas case asking the court to declare all of Obamacare unconstitutional was well publicized. Slipping by almost unnoticed was Mr. Trump’s instruction last June to the Justice Department, which was defending the A.C.A., to argue instead that certain key provisions — notably, the requirement that Americans with pre-existing conditions be treated equally — be declared unconstitutional. A win by Mr. Trump in this case could mean that nearly 20 million Americans would lose insurance, according to the Urban Institute. Meanwhile, Mr. Trump (and his fellow Republicans) keep saying that they are committed to protecting coverage for pre-existing conditions, although acknowledging that under their formulation, people with pre-existing conditions could be forced to pay more than those without. Confused? That may well be Mr. Trump’s strategy: pretend you want expanded coverage while your operatives are pursuing strategies that would cost millions of Americans their coverage. Republicans, beware: After years of polling negative, Obamacare has achieved majority support, perhaps because Americans have figured out what the Republicans’ alternative health care universe would look like. Garnering less attention but also an important component of Mr. Trump’s health care strategy are the huge cuts that he has proposed to Medicare and Medicaid (again, contrary to explicit campaign promises). The White House contends that the $575 billion in Medicare reductions over the next 10 years would come largely from health care providers and would not affect beneficiaries. We can debate the veracity of that, but what’s unambiguously true is that the nearly $800 billion in Medicaid reductions would come directly from lower-income Americans. Fortunately, like most budgets of recent years, Mr. Trump’s proposals — unsupported by a wide majority of legislators — have already been declared dead on arrival on Capitol Hill. Now Mr. Trump is trying to finesse his way through the 2020 election by promising a plan immediately thereafter. For those of us of a certain age, that’s reminiscent of President Nixon’s false suggestion in the 1968 campaign that he had a “secret plan” to end the war in Vietnam. Isn’t a plan what Mr. Trump promised in 2016? Are the American people really going to allow him to lie to them again? His hard-right henchmen, led by the acting chief of staff, Mick Mulvaney, aren’t waiting. Mr. Mulvaney, a Freedom Caucus co-founder, recently brought top Republican policymakers to Camp David to work on the proposal. Either Mr. Trump is too ignorant to understand that any plan Mr. Mulvaney develops will gut the A.C.A. or he doesn’t care. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Steven Rattner, a counselor to the Treasury secretary in the Obama administration, is a Wall Street executive and a contributing opinion writer. For latest updates and posts, please visit stevenrattner.com and follow me on Twitter (@SteveRattner) and Facebook.
       

Supported by The administration’s chaotic reversals on Obamacare could deprive millions of coverage. By Steven Rattner Mr. Rattner was counselor to the treasury secretary and head of the White House auto task force in the Obama administration. In Donald Trump’s two-plus years as president, his approach to policymaking has often been defined by an unsavory stew of indecision, inaction, flip-flops and outright lies. Nowhere has this been truer than with health care, where the administration has reversed direction multiple times. A short history: During his presidential campaign, Mr. Trump said he would produce a health care plan that provided universal coverage and also promised that he would not cut Medicare or Medicaid. “Everybody’s got to be covered,” Mr. Trump told “60 Minutes,” a position that he repeated regularly until he took office. Then he began backing proposals that would eviscerate the Affordable Care Act and severely damage the other programs. On his first day in office, Mr. Trump signed an executive order directing government agencies to scale back as much of the A.C.A. as possible while the White House sought “prompt repeal” of the law. That was followed by nearly a year of wrangling in Congress as Republicans tried to craft a bill that could attract majorities in both houses. The effort fell short in September 2017 when John McCain cast the deciding vote against the so-called skinny repeal, which would have cost 16 million Americans their insurance by 2021 and sent premiums soaring for those still covered. Like the elephant who never forgets, Mr. Trump continues to hammer Mr. McCain, now deceased, over that vote, even as he professes to be working on a plan to improve health care coverage. Meanwhile, the administration’s latest budget, released in mid-March, stands behind legislation known as “Graham-Cassidy,” which was pushed by Republicans in 2017 but never won enough support to be brought to a vote. The Trojan horse of health care reform, the proposal provides for relatively small initial cuts in federal funding and then huge reductions starting in 2027. According to a Brookings Institution report, Graham-Cassidy would cost 32 million Americans their health insurance by 2027, just as full repeal would. That’s Donald Trump’s idea of a “beautiful,” “terrific” and “unbelievable” health care plan. In the meantime, new regulations — issued pursuant to the president’s Inauguration Day executive order — have chipped away at the A.C.A., leading to a drop in enrollments through the exchanges from 12.7 million in 2016 to 11.4 million this year. Then there’s the legal front.  The administration’s recent decision to submit a brief in a Texas case asking the court to declare all of Obamacare unconstitutional was well publicized. Slipping by almost unnoticed was Mr. Trump’s instruction last June to the Justice Department, which was defending the A.C.A., to argue instead that certain key provisions — notably, the requirement that Americans with pre-existing conditions be treated equally — be declared unconstitutional. A win by Mr. Trump in this case could mean that nearly 20 million Americans would lose insurance, according to the Urban Institute. Meanwhile, Mr. Trump (and his fellow Republicans) keep saying that they are committed to protecting coverage for pre-existing conditions, although acknowledging that under their formulation, people with pre-existing conditions could be forced to pay more than those without. Confused? That may well be Mr. Trump’s strategy: pretend you want expanded coverage while your operatives are pursuing strategies that would cost millions of Americans their coverage. Republicans, beware: After years of polling negative, Obamacare has achieved majority support, perhaps because Americans have figured out what the Republicans’ alternative health care universe would look like. Garnering less attention but also an important component of Mr. Trump’s health care strategy are the huge cuts that he has proposed to Medicare and Medicaid (again, contrary to explicit campaign promises). The White House contends that the $575 billion in Medicare reductions over the next 10 years would come largely from health care providers and would not affect beneficiaries. We can debate the veracity of that, but what’s unambiguously true is that the nearly $800 billion in Medicaid reductions would come directly from lower-income Americans. Fortunately, like most budgets of recent years, Mr. Trump’s proposals — unsupported by a wide majority of legislators — have already been declared dead on arrival on Capitol Hill. Now Mr. Trump is trying to finesse his way through the 2020 election by promising a plan immediately thereafter. For those of us of a certain age, that’s reminiscent of President Nixon’s false suggestion in the 1968 campaign that he had a “secret plan” to end the war in Vietnam. Isn’t a plan what Mr. Trump promised in 2016? Are the American people really going to allow him to lie to them again? His hard-right henchmen, led by the acting chief of staff, Mick Mulvaney, aren’t waiting. Mr. Mulvaney, a Freedom Caucus co-founder, recently brought top Republican policymakers to Camp David to work on the proposal. Either Mr. Trump is too ignorant to understand that any plan Mr. Mulvaney develops will gut the A.C.A. or he doesn’t care. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Steven Rattner, a counselor to the Treasury secretary in the Obama administration, is a Wall Street executive and a contributing opinion writer. For latest updates and posts, please visit stevenrattner.com and follow me on Twitter (@SteveRattner) and Facebook.
       Supported by By Jim Tankersley WASHINGTON — President Trump is getting exactly what he wants on the economy, but it may not last. The Federal Reserve has abruptly stopped its march toward higher interest rates, as Mr. Trump demanded. The tax cuts he signed in late 2017 are in full swing. His attempt to rewrite the global rules of trade are underway, and he proclaims himself happy with the array of new tariffs he has imposed. His recent comments suggest he is unconcerned about slowdowns in China and Europe, which he considers economic rivals. But while Mr. Trump points with pride to last year’s economic growth and promises even faster growth to come, there are signs that his most dependable talking point is eroding. On Thursday, the Commerce Department issued a downward revision of its estimates for economic growth in the fourth quarter, pushing one measure of the full year’s growth down as well. Forecasters outside the White House, including officials at the Fed, expect growth to slow even more this year. Economic data suggests that slowdown is already underway in the first quarter. Manufacturing is losing some of its steam from last year’s rapid growth, and job creation is also moderating. Chief executives of some of the nation’s biggest companies see investment, hiring and sales growth all slowing this year. Three-quarters of business economists say they are more worried about growth undershooting their forecasts than overshooting it, and half have revised those forecasts downward for this year. White House officials see growth staying above 3 percent for the next few years — and potentially for an entire decade, provided Mr. Trump can continue carrying out his economic agenda, including another round of tax cuts, a $1 trillion infrastructure plan and additional deregulation. “The economy is roaring,” Mr. Trump said on Thursday night at a rally in Grand Rapids, Mich. “Our country has never done better economically.” Mr. Trump’s re-election could hinge on whether he is right about the economy, and nearly every other forecaster is wrong. If Mr. Trump is correct and growth surges again, he will enter 2020 with arguably the strongest economic record of any incumbent president facing re-election since Bill Clinton in 1996. But if he is wrong and the economy cools, Mr. Trump will have no one to credibly blame — and few places to turn for another jolt of stimulus if the United States slides into an economic contraction or recession. The Democrats who control the House have no desire to pass another round of tax cuts. The Fed, which has slowly raised rates to a range of 2.25 to 2.5 percent, has relatively few tools available to help lift the economy from a sharp downturn. Some Fed officials have begun to warn that they might need to cut interest rates later this year — further reducing the Fed’s ammunition to fight a recession — if growth disappoints. “At the moment, the risks from the downside scenarios loom larger than those from the upside ones,” Charles Evans, the president of the Chicago Fed, said Monday in Hong Kong. “If activity softens more than expected or if inflation and inflation expectations run too low, then policy may have to be left on hold — or perhaps even loosened.” Last week Mr. Trump again raised his bet on his ability to fuel a continuing boom in growth. He said he would nominate Stephen Moore, an architect of his campaign economic platform and a fellow critic of the Fed’s recent interest rate increases, to a seat on the Fed’s board of governors. If confirmed, Mr. Moore would become the first unabashed Trump loyalist on the board, and he would press officials to reduce rates in hopes of pushing annual growth to 4 percent. On Thursday, the Commerce Department said the economy slowed more sharply at the end of last year than previously reported, revising its estimate of fourth-quarter growth to 2.2 percent from 2.6 percent because of weaker spending by consumers and state and local governments, among other factors. Growth for the full year — as measured from the fourth quarter of 2017 to the fourth quarter of 2018 — stands at 3.0 percent, down a bit from the initially reported 3.1 percent but still enough to allow Mr. Trump to claim to have achieved the first year of 3 percent growth since 2005. (That claim is somewhat misleading. Year-over-year growth has topped 3 percent several times in recent years, but not in the fourth quarter. An alternative measure of full-year growth for 2018, based on comparing calendar-year averages, was unrevised at 2.9 percent.) While Mr. Trump continues to predict robust growth, he is already trying to pin blame for any slowdown on the Fed, rather than any of his own policies. “We’re doing a good job,” he said in an interview last week on Fox Business Network. “And I think we have tremendous momentum right now. And you’re right, the world is slowing, but we’re not slowing.” He added that, “if we didn’t have somebody that would raise interest rates and do quantitative tightening,” we would have been at over 4 percent growth. Fifty-six percent of Americans approve of Mr. Trump’s handling of the economy, Gallup reports, the highest mark of his term and the best for a president since Barack Obama registered the same rating in March 2009. Surveys of consumer confidence remain strong, including a confidence index conducted for The New York Times by the online research firm SurveyMonkey, which has gained strength since Mr. Trump took office. Unemployment has dipped to 3.8 percent. Inflation remains subdued, and wage growth is accelerating. White House economists say the tax cuts Mr. Trump signed in 2017, for businesses and individuals, deserve much of the credit for the economy’s performance — and that they will deliver another strong year of investment and hiring in 2019. “Some folks have said that, ‘Oh, sure, we did have 3 percent growth, but that was a sugar high,’” Kevin Hassett, the chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, said last week. “And our view is that it’s really not a sugar high at all,” he continued. “A sugar high would be: We spent a lot of money on Twinkies and now we are sorry we ate all those Twinkies, and we don’t have money left. But this is — we actually cut taxes to encourage people to build new factories. And we had new factories last year. We’re going to get more new factories this year, but we’re also going to get the output from the factories we built last year as they turn them on.” Outside economists are more pessimistic, citing drags on growth from Mr. Trump’s trade policies, slowdowns abroad and a fading consumer spending boost from the tax cuts. Fed officials said this week that their median prediction is now for 2.1 percent growth for the year. Their projections also foresee no interest rate increases in 2019 — down from a forecast of two in December and in line with Mr. Trump’s desire to halt rate increases — and officials announced they would end the reduction of their asset purchase program sooner than markets had expected. “I don’t believe there’s a lot of room for criticism if you believe the Fed should be easy this year — they are,” said Ellen Zentner, chief United States economist at Morgan Stanley. “The Fed has completely removed themselves from the equation, both in their rates path and their balance sheet.” Ms. Zentner forecasts 1.7 percent growth this year, largely as a result of slowing investment growth. That would mark a return to the Obama-era growth levels that Mr. Trump has said are now over. Mr. Trump could possibly influence the growth path on his own this year, positively or negatively. He could reach a trade agreement with China, bolstering business certainty and removing tariffs that have hurt American companies and consumers. He could also end tariffs on imported steel and aluminum, which have raised prices for companies that use foreign metals in their products. But Mr. Trump has also threatened to impose new tariffs on imported automobiles and auto parts from Europe and Japan, a move that economists, companies and lawmakers from both parties warn would be economically devastating to the auto industry and its customers. He has negotiated a new trade agreement with Canada and Mexico, but he needs Congress to approve it. Its fate is uncertain. He does not appear to be aggressively pushing for Congress to pass a large-scale infrastructure plan, though he has called for one, and a divided Congress is unlikely to approve one even if he did. A question mark could be government spending. Last year, Mr. Trump signed an agreement between Republicans and Democrats that increased defense and other domestic spending, which helped stimulate demand and growth in the economy. In his budget this year, Mr. Trump called for additional defense increases but cuts in domestic spending, which Democrats are certain to oppose. Complicating the conversation is the widening federal budget deficit, which hit a monthly record in February, according to the Treasury Department, and which the Trump administration predicts will soon top $1 trillion a year. The deficit has ballooned, even in a time of relatively rapid growth, because Mr. Trump’s tax cuts reduced tax revenues — both in absolute terms and compared with forecasts — and because of the spending increases he approved. It is unusual, historically, for presidents to pour fiscal stimulus onto an economy with already low unemployment. The decision to do so could tie Mr. Trump’s hands in a dire situation that most economists deem possible but unlikely — an economic contraction or recession this year. Democrats will be in no mood to give Mr. Trump another tax cut, in that case. The Fed could cut rates, but not by as much as it did in previous recessions. To combat each of the last three recessions, the Fed cut rates by at least five percentage points. Today, the Fed’s target interest rate sits between 2.25 and 2.5 percent. It does not appear to be rising anytime soon. That’s just how Mr. Trump wants it. Ben Casselman contributed reporting from New York.   

Supported by By Jim Tankersley WASHINGTON — President Trump is getting exactly what he wants on the economy, but it may not last. The Federal Reserve has abruptly stopped its march toward higher interest rates, as Mr. Trump demanded. The tax cuts he signed in late 2017 are in full swing. His attempt to rewrite the global rules of trade are underway, and he proclaims himself happy with the array of new tariffs he has imposed. His recent comments suggest he is unconcerned about slowdowns in China and Europe, which he considers economic rivals. But while Mr. Trump points with pride to last year’s economic growth and promises even faster growth to come, there are signs that his most dependable talking point is eroding. On Thursday, the Commerce Department issued a downward revision of its estimates for economic growth in the fourth quarter, pushing one measure of the full year’s growth down as well. Forecasters outside the White House, including officials at the Fed, expect growth to slow even more this year. Economic data suggests that slowdown is already underway in the first quarter. Manufacturing is losing some of its steam from last year’s rapid growth, and job creation is also moderating. Chief executives of some of the nation’s biggest companies see investment, hiring and sales growth all slowing this year. Three-quarters of business economists say they are more worried about growth undershooting their forecasts than overshooting it, and half have revised those forecasts downward for this year. White House officials see growth staying above 3 percent for the next few years — and potentially for an entire decade, provided Mr. Trump can continue carrying out his economic agenda, including another round of tax cuts, a $1 trillion infrastructure plan and additional deregulation. “The economy is roaring,” Mr. Trump said on Thursday night at a rally in Grand Rapids, Mich. “Our country has never done better economically.” Mr. Trump’s re-election could hinge on whether he is right about the economy, and nearly every other forecaster is wrong. If Mr. Trump is correct and growth surges again, he will enter 2020 with arguably the strongest economic record of any incumbent president facing re-election since Bill Clinton in 1996. But if he is wrong and the economy cools, Mr. Trump will have no one to credibly blame — and few places to turn for another jolt of stimulus if the United States slides into an economic contraction or recession. The Democrats who control the House have no desire to pass another round of tax cuts. The Fed, which has slowly raised rates to a range of 2.25 to 2.5 percent, has relatively few tools available to help lift the economy from a sharp downturn. Some Fed officials have begun to warn that they might need to cut interest rates later this year — further reducing the Fed’s ammunition to fight a recession — if growth disappoints. “At the moment, the risks from the downside scenarios loom larger than those from the upside ones,” Charles Evans, the president of the Chicago Fed, said Monday in Hong Kong. “If activity softens more than expected or if inflation and inflation expectations run too low, then policy may have to be left on hold — or perhaps even loosened.” Last week Mr. Trump again raised his bet on his ability to fuel a continuing boom in growth. He said he would nominate Stephen Moore, an architect of his campaign economic platform and a fellow critic of the Fed’s recent interest rate increases, to a seat on the Fed’s board of governors. If confirmed, Mr. Moore would become the first unabashed Trump loyalist on the board, and he would press officials to reduce rates in hopes of pushing annual growth to 4 percent. On Thursday, the Commerce Department said the economy slowed more sharply at the end of last year than previously reported, revising its estimate of fourth-quarter growth to 2.2 percent from 2.6 percent because of weaker spending by consumers and state and local governments, among other factors. Growth for the full year — as measured from the fourth quarter of 2017 to the fourth quarter of 2018 — stands at 3.0 percent, down a bit from the initially reported 3.1 percent but still enough to allow Mr. Trump to claim to have achieved the first year of 3 percent growth since 2005. (That claim is somewhat misleading. Year-over-year growth has topped 3 percent several times in recent years, but not in the fourth quarter. An alternative measure of full-year growth for 2018, based on comparing calendar-year averages, was unrevised at 2.9 percent.) While Mr. Trump continues to predict robust growth, he is already trying to pin blame for any slowdown on the Fed, rather than any of his own policies. “We’re doing a good job,” he said in an interview last week on Fox Business Network. “And I think we have tremendous momentum right now. And you’re right, the world is slowing, but we’re not slowing.” He added that, “if we didn’t have somebody that would raise interest rates and do quantitative tightening,” we would have been at over 4 percent growth. Fifty-six percent of Americans approve of Mr. Trump’s handling of the economy, Gallup reports, the highest mark of his term and the best for a president since Barack Obama registered the same rating in March 2009. Surveys of consumer confidence remain strong, including a confidence index conducted for The New York Times by the online research firm SurveyMonkey, which has gained strength since Mr. Trump took office. Unemployment has dipped to 3.8 percent. Inflation remains subdued, and wage growth is accelerating. White House economists say the tax cuts Mr. Trump signed in 2017, for businesses and individuals, deserve much of the credit for the economy’s performance — and that they will deliver another strong year of investment and hiring in 2019. “Some folks have said that, ‘Oh, sure, we did have 3 percent growth, but that was a sugar high,’” Kevin Hassett, the chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, said last week. “And our view is that it’s really not a sugar high at all,” he continued. “A sugar high would be: We spent a lot of money on Twinkies and now we are sorry we ate all those Twinkies, and we don’t have money left. But this is — we actually cut taxes to encourage people to build new factories. And we had new factories last year. We’re going to get more new factories this year, but we’re also going to get the output from the factories we built last year as they turn them on.” Outside economists are more pessimistic, citing drags on growth from Mr. Trump’s trade policies, slowdowns abroad and a fading consumer spending boost from the tax cuts. Fed officials said this week that their median prediction is now for 2.1 percent growth for the year. Their projections also foresee no interest rate increases in 2019 — down from a forecast of two in December and in line with Mr. Trump’s desire to halt rate increases — and officials announced they would end the reduction of their asset purchase program sooner than markets had expected. “I don’t believe there’s a lot of room for criticism if you believe the Fed should be easy this year — they are,” said Ellen Zentner, chief United States economist at Morgan Stanley. “The Fed has completely removed themselves from the equation, both in their rates path and their balance sheet.” Ms. Zentner forecasts 1.7 percent growth this year, largely as a result of slowing investment growth. That would mark a return to the Obama-era growth levels that Mr. Trump has said are now over. Mr. Trump could possibly influence the growth path on his own this year, positively or negatively. He could reach a trade agreement with China, bolstering business certainty and removing tariffs that have hurt American companies and consumers. He could also end tariffs on imported steel and aluminum, which have raised prices for companies that use foreign metals in their products. But Mr. Trump has also threatened to impose new tariffs on imported automobiles and auto parts from Europe and Japan, a move that economists, companies and lawmakers from both parties warn would be economically devastating to the auto industry and its customers. He has negotiated a new trade agreement with Canada and Mexico, but he needs Congress to approve it. Its fate is uncertain. He does not appear to be aggressively pushing for Congress to pass a large-scale infrastructure plan, though he has called for one, and a divided Congress is unlikely to approve one even if he did. A question mark could be government spending. Last year, Mr. Trump signed an agreement between Republicans and Democrats that increased defense and other domestic spending, which helped stimulate demand and growth in the economy. In his budget this year, Mr. Trump called for additional defense increases but cuts in domestic spending, which Democrats are certain to oppose. Complicating the conversation is the widening federal budget deficit, which hit a monthly record in February, according to the Treasury Department, and which the Trump administration predicts will soon top $1 trillion a year. The deficit has ballooned, even in a time of relatively rapid growth, because Mr. Trump’s tax cuts reduced tax revenues — both in absolute terms and compared with forecasts — and because of the spending increases he approved. It is unusual, historically, for presidents to pour fiscal stimulus onto an economy with already low unemployment. The decision to do so could tie Mr. Trump’s hands in a dire situation that most economists deem possible but unlikely — an economic contraction or recession this year. Democrats will be in no mood to give Mr. Trump another tax cut, in that case. The Fed could cut rates, but not by as much as it did in previous recessions. To combat each of the last three recessions, the Fed cut rates by at least five percentage points. Today, the Fed’s target interest rate sits between 2.25 and 2.5 percent. It does not appear to be rising anytime soon. That’s just how Mr. Trump wants it. Ben Casselman contributed reporting from New York.   Supported by By Kevin Draper A day after Tiger Woods won his fifth Masters title and 15th major tournament in a rousing resurrection of his career, President Trump said Monday he would give him an honor almost as exclusive as a green jacket from Augusta National Golf Club: the Presidential Medal of Freedom. Mr. Trump said on Twitter that he would bestow the award, without saying when. “Because of his incredible Success & Comeback in Sports (Golf) and, more important, LIFE, I will be presenting him with the PRESIDENTIAL MEDAL OF FREEDOM!,” Mr. Trump wrote. Spoke to @TigerWoods to congratulate him on the great victory he had in yesterday’s @TheMasters, & to inform him that because of his incredible Success & Comeback in Sports (Golf) and, more importantly, LIFE, I will be presenting him with the PRESIDENTIAL MEDAL OF FREEDOM! The Presidential Medal of Freedom is the nation’s highest civilian honor, and is awarded to those who make outstanding contributions to national security or national interest, world peace, culture or other public or private endeavors. The medal has been awarded since 1963, and is typically given to a dozen or fewer people each year. Over the years numerous sports figures have received it, especially under the presidencies of George W. Bush, Barack Obama and Mr. Trump, all noted sports fans. Just last year Babe Ruth, Roger Staubach and Alan Page were awarded Presidential Medals of Freedom. Woods will not be the first golfer to get the award; Arnold Palmer and Jack Nicklaus were honored in consecutive years in the mid-2000s, and Charles Sifford, the first African-American to play on the PGA Tour, was honored in 2014. But it is rare for an active athlete to receive the honor. Mr. Woods has a longstanding relationship with Mr. Trump, an avid golfer. They own property near each other in Florida and have golfed together a number of times, both before and after Mr. Trump became president. In February, Mr. Trump tweeted a picture of himself with Woods and Nicklaus at the Trump National Golf Club in Jupiter, Fla. The next day, Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter, “Tiger is back & will be winning Majors again!” Over the years Mr. Trump has repeatedly tweeted about watching Mr. Woods play golf. They are also business partners. Mr. Woods is designing the course at the Trump World Golf Club Dubai, set to open in 2019. Mr. Woods acknowledges having played golf with Mr. Trump and having eaten together, but otherwise is reluctant to speak about their relationship. “Well, he’s the president of the United States,” Mr. Woods said last year. “You have to respect the office.” Still, while several African-American athletes have criticized Mr. Trump or kept their distance, Mr. Woods, who is of African-American and Thai descent, has maintained his relationship with him. When asked last August after a tournament if he had any thoughts about race relations in America, Mr. Woods demurred. “No, I just finished 72 holes,” he said. “And really hungry.” Email Kevin Draper at kevin.draper@nytimes.com or follow him on Twitter: @kevinmdraper.   

Supported by By Kevin Draper A day after Tiger Woods won his fifth Masters title and 15th major tournament in a rousing resurrection of his career, President Trump said Monday he would give him an honor almost as exclusive as a green jacket from Augusta National Golf Club: the Presidential Medal of Freedom. Mr. Trump said on Twitter that he would bestow the award, without saying when. “Because of his incredible Success & Comeback in Sports (Golf) and, more important, LIFE, I will be presenting him with the PRESIDENTIAL MEDAL OF FREEDOM!,” Mr. Trump wrote. Spoke to @TigerWoods to congratulate him on the great victory he had in yesterday’s @TheMasters, & to inform him that because of his incredible Success & Comeback in Sports (Golf) and, more importantly, LIFE, I will be presenting him with the PRESIDENTIAL MEDAL OF FREEDOM! The Presidential Medal of Freedom is the nation’s highest civilian honor, and is awarded to those who make outstanding contributions to national security or national interest, world peace, culture or other public or private endeavors. The medal has been awarded since 1963, and is typically given to a dozen or fewer people each year. Over the years numerous sports figures have received it, especially under the presidencies of George W. Bush, Barack Obama and Mr. Trump, all noted sports fans. Just last year Babe Ruth, Roger Staubach and Alan Page were awarded Presidential Medals of Freedom. Woods will not be the first golfer to get the award; Arnold Palmer and Jack Nicklaus were honored in consecutive years in the mid-2000s, and Charles Sifford, the first African-American to play on the PGA Tour, was honored in 2014. But it is rare for an active athlete to receive the honor. Mr. Woods has a longstanding relationship with Mr. Trump, an avid golfer. They own property near each other in Florida and have golfed together a number of times, both before and after Mr. Trump became president. In February, Mr. Trump tweeted a picture of himself with Woods and Nicklaus at the Trump National Golf Club in Jupiter, Fla. The next day, Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter, “Tiger is back & will be winning Majors again!” Over the years Mr. Trump has repeatedly tweeted about watching Mr. Woods play golf. They are also business partners. Mr. Woods is designing the course at the Trump World Golf Club Dubai, set to open in 2019. Mr. Woods acknowledges having played golf with Mr. Trump and having eaten together, but otherwise is reluctant to speak about their relationship. “Well, he’s the president of the United States,” Mr. Woods said last year. “You have to respect the office.” Still, while several African-American athletes have criticized Mr. Trump or kept their distance, Mr. Woods, who is of African-American and Thai descent, has maintained his relationship with him. When asked last August after a tournament if he had any thoughts about race relations in America, Mr. Woods demurred. “No, I just finished 72 holes,” he said. “And really hungry.” Email Kevin Draper at kevin.draper@nytimes.com or follow him on Twitter: @kevinmdraper.   Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — Robert Mueller's 448-page investigative report into allegations of Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election includes 23 unredacted pages of Mueller's written questions and Donald Trump's written responses, the only direct exchange between the special counsel's office and the president. Mueller's team writes that it tried to interview the president for more than a year before Trump submitted written testimony in response to questions on certain Russia-related topics in November 2018. An introductory note included in the report said the special counsel's office found the responses indicative of "the inadequacy of the written format," especially given the office's inability to ask follow-up questions. Citing dozens of answers that Mueller's team considered incomplete, imprecise or unable to be provided because of the president's lack of recollections — for instance, the president gave no response at all to the final set of questions — the special counsel's office again sought an in-person interview with Trump that he again declined. The full exchange between Mueller's team and Trump: ___ I. JUNE 9, 2016 MEETING AT TRUMP TOWER SPECIAL COUNSEL'S OFFICE: a. When did you first learn that Donald Trump Jr., Paul Manafort, or Jared Kushner was considering participating in a meeting in June 2016 concerning potentially negative information about Hillary Clinton? Describe who you learned the information from and the substance of the discussion. b. Attached to this document as Exhibit A is a series of emails from June 2016 between, among others, Donald Trump Jr. and Rob Goldstone. In addition to the emails reflected in Exhibit A, Donald Trump Jr. had other communications with Rob Goldstone and Emin Agalarov between June 3, 2016, and June 9, 2016. i. Did Mr. Trump Jr. or anyone else tell you about or show you any of these communications? If yes, describe who discussed the communications with you, when, and the substance of the discussion(s). ii. When did you first see or learn about all or any part of the emails reflected in Exhibit A? iii. When did you first learn that the proposed meeting involved or was described as being part of Russia and its government's support for your candidacy? iv. Did you suggest to or direct anyone not to discuss or release publicly all or any portion of the emails reflected in Exhibit A? If yes, describe who you communicated with, when, the substance of the communication(s), and why you took that action. c. On June 9, 2016, Donald Trump Jr., Paul Manafort, and Jared Kushner attended a meeting at Trump Tower with several individuals, including a Russian lawyer, Natalia Veselnitskaya (the "June 9 meeting"). i. Other than as set forth in your answers to I.a and I.b, what, if anything, were you told about the possibility of this meeting taking place, or the scheduling of such a meeting? Describe who you discussed this with, when, and what you were informed about the meeting. ii. When did you learn that some of the individuals attending the June 9 meeting were Russian or had any affiliation with any part of the Russian government? Describe who you learned this information from and the substance of the discussion(s). iii. What were you told about what was discussed at the June 9 meeting? Describe each conversation in which you were told about what was discussed at the meeting, who the conversation was with, when it occurred, and the substance of the statements they made about the meeting. iv. Were you told that the June 9 meeting was about, in whole or in part, adoption and/or the Magnitsky Act? If yes, describe who you had that discussion with, when, and the substance of the discussion. PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP: Response to Question l, Parts (a) through (c): I have no recollection of learning at the time that Donald Trump Jr., Paul Manafort, or Jared Kushner was considering participating in a meeting in June 2016 concerning potentially negative information about Hillary Clinton. Nor do I recall learning during the campaign that the June 9, 2016 meeting had taken place, that the referenced emails existed, or that Donald J. Trump Jr., had other communications with Emin Agalarov or Robert Goldstone between June 3, 2016 and June 9, 2016. SPECIAL COUNSEL'S OFFICE: d. For the period June 6, 2016 through June 9, 2016, for what portion of each day were you in Trump Tower? i. Did you speak or meet with Donald Trump Jr., Paul Manafort, or Jared Kushner on June 9, 2016? If yes, did any portion of any of those conversations or meetings include any reference to any aspect of the June 9 meeting? If yes, describe who you spoke with and the substance of the conversation. TRUMP: Response to Question I, Part (d): I have no independent recollection of what portion of these four days in June of 2016 I spent in Trump Tower. This was one of many busy months during a fast-paced campaign, as the primary season was ending and we were preparing for the general election campaign. I am now aware that my Campaign's calendar indicates that I was in New York City from June 6-9, 2016. Calendars kept in my Trump Tower office reflect that I had various calls and meetings scheduled for each of these days. While those calls and meetings may or may not actually have taken place, they do indicate that I was in Trump Tower during a portion of each of these working days, and I have no reason to doubt that I was. When I was in New York City, I stayed at my Trump Tower apartment. My Trump Organization desk calendar also reflects that I was outside Trump Tower during portions of these days. The June 7, 2016 calendar indicates I was scheduled to leave Trump Tower in the early evening for Westchester where I gave remarks after winning the California, New Jersey, New Mexico, Montana, and South Dakota Republican primaries held that day. The June 8, 2016 calendar indicates a scheduled departure in late afternoon to attend a ceremony at my son's school. The June 9, 2016 calendar indicates I was scheduled to attend midday meetings and a fundraising luncheon at the Four Seasons Hotel. At this point, I do not remember on what dales these events occurred, but I do not currently have a reason to doubt that they took place as scheduled on my calendar. Widely available media reports, including television footage, also shed light on my activities during these days. For example, I am aware that my June 7, 2016 victory remarks at the Trump National Golf Club in Briarcliff Manor, New York, were recorded and published by the media. I remember winning those primaries and generally recall delivering remarks that evening. At this point in time, I do not remember whether I spoke or met with Donald Trump Jr., Paul Manafort, or Jared Kushner on June 9, 2016. My desk calendar indicates I was scheduled to meet with Paul Manafort on the morning of June 9, but I do not recall if that meeting took place. It was more than two years ago, at a time when I had many calls and interactions daily. SPECIAL COUNSEL'S OFFICE: e. Did you communicate directly or indirectly with any member or representative of the Agalarov family after June 3, 2016? If yes, describe who you spoke with, when, and the substance of the communication. TRUMP: Response to Question I, Part (e): I have no independent recollection of any communications I had with the Agalarov family or anyone I understood to be a representative of the Agalarov family after June 3, 2016 and before the end of the campaign. While preparing to respond to these questions, I have become aware of written communications with the Agalarovs during the campaign that were sent, received, and largely authored by my staff and which I understand have already been produced to you. In general, the documents include congratulatory letters on my campaign victories, emails about a painting Emin and Aras Agalarov arranged to have delivered to Trump Tower as a birthday present, and emails regarding delivery of a book written by Aras Agalarov. The documents reflect that the deliveries were screened by the Secret Service. SPECIAL COUNSEL'S OFFICE: f. Did you learn of any communications between Donald Trump Jr., Paul Manafort, or Jared Kushner and any member or representative of the Agalarov family, Natalia Veselnitskaya, Rob Goldstone, or any Russian official or contact that took place after June 9, 2016 and concerned the June 9 meeting or efforts by Russia to assist the campaign? If yes, describe who you learned this information from, when, and the substance of what you learned. TRUMP: Response to Question I, Part (f): I do not recall being aware during the campaign of communications between Donald Trump Jr., Paul Manafort, or Jared Kushner and any member or representative of the Agalarov family, Robert Goldstone, Natalia Veselnitskaya (whose name I was not familiar with), or anyone I understood to be a Russian official. SPECIAL COUNSEL'S OFFICE: g. On June 7, 2016, you gave a speech in which you said, in part, "I am going to give a major speech on probably Monday of next week and we're going to be discussing all of the things that have taken place with the Clintons." i. Why did you make that statement? ii. What information did you plan to share with respect to the Clintons? iii. What did you believe the source(s) of that information would be? iv. Did you expect any of the information to have come from the June 9 meeting? v. Did anyone help draft the speech that you were referring to? If so, who? vi. Why did you ultimately not give the speech you referenced on June 7, 2016? TRUMP: Response to Question I, Part (g): In remarks I delivered the night I won the California, New Jersey, New Mexico, Montana, and South Dakota Republican primaries, I said, "I am going to give a major speech on probably Monday of next week and we're going to be discussing all of the things that have taken place with the Clintons." In general, l expected to give a speech referencing the publicly available, negative information about the Clintons, including, for example, Mrs. Clinton's failed policies, the Clintons' use of the State Department to further their interests and the interests of the Clinton Foundation, Mrs. Clinton's improper use of a private server for State Department business, the destruction of 33,000 emails on that server, and Mrs. Clinton's temperamental unsuitability for the office of President. In the course of preparing to respond to your questions, I have become aware that the Campaign documents already produced to you reflect the drafting, evolution, and sources of information for the speech I expected to give "probably" on the Monday following my June 7, 2016 comments. These documents generally show that the text of the speech was initially drafted by Campaign staff with input from various outside advisors and was based on publicly available material, including, in particular, information from the book Clinton Cash by Peter Schweizer. The Pulse Nightclub terrorist attack took place in the early morning hours of Sunday, June 12, 2016. In light of that tragedy, I gave a speech directed more specifically to national security and terrorism than to the Clintons. That speech was delivered at the Saint Anselm College Institute of Politics in Manchester, New Hampshire, and, as reported, opened with the following: "This was going to be a speech on Hillary Clinton and how bad a President, especially in these times of Radical Islamic Terrorism, she would be. Even her former Secret Service Agent, who has seen her under pressure and in times of stress, has stated that she lacks the temperament and integrity to be president. There will be plenty of opportunity to discuss these important issues at a later time, and I will deliver that speech soon. But today there is only one thing to discuss: the growing threat of terrorism inside of our borders." I continued to speak about Mrs. Clinton's failings throughout the campaign, using the information prepared for inclusion in the speech to which I referred on June 7, 2016. SPECIAL COUNSEL'S OFFICE: h. Did any person or entity inform you during the campaign that Vladimir Putin or the Russian government supported your candidacy or opposed the candidacy of Hillary Clinton? If yes, describe the source(s) of the information, when you were informed, and the content of such discussion(s). TRUMP: Response to Question I, Part (h): I have no recollection of being told during the campaign that Vladimir Putin or the Russian government "supported" my candidacy or "opposed" the candidacy of Hillary Clinton. However, I was aware of some reports indicating that President Putin had made complimentary statements about me. SPECIAL COUNSEL'S OFFICE: i. Did any person or entity inform you during the campaign that any foreign government or foreign leader, other than Russia or Vladimir Putin, had provided, wished to provide, or offered to provide tangible support to your campaign, including by way of offering to provide negative information on Hillary Clinton? If yes, describe the source(s) of the information, when you were informed, and the content of such discussion(s). TRUMP: Response to Question I, Part (i): I have no recollection of being told during the campaign that any foreign government or foreign leader had provided, wished to provide, or offered to provide tangible support to my campaign. ___ II. RUSSIAN HACKING/RUSSIAN EFFORTS USING SOCIAL MEDIA/WIKILEAKS SPECIAL COUNSEL'S OFFICE: a. On June 14, 2016, it was publicly reported that computer hackers had penetrated the computer network of the Democratic National Committee (DNC) and that Russian intelligence was behind the unauthorized access, or hack. Prior to June 14, 2016, were you provided any information about any potential or actual hacking of the computer systems or email accounts of the DNC, the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee (DCCC), the Clinton Campaign, Hillary Clinton, or individuals associated with the Clinton campaign? If yes, describe who provided this information, when, and the substance of the information. TRUMP: Response to Question II, Part (a): I do not remember the date on which it was publicly reported that the DNC had been hacked, but my best recollection is that I learned of the hacking at or shortly after the time it became the subject of media reporting. I do not recall being provided any information during the campaign about the hacking of any of the named entities or individuals before it became the subject of media reporting. SPECIAL COUNSEL'S OFFICE: b. On July 22, 2016, WikiLeaks released nearly 20,000 emails sent or received by Democratic party officials. i. Prior to the July 22, 2016 release, were you aware from any source that WikiLeaks, Guccifer 2.0, DCLeaks, or Russians had or potentially had possession of or planned to release emails or information that could help your campaign or hurt the Clinton campaign? If yes, describe who you discussed this issue with, when, and the substance of the discussion(s). ii. After the release of emails by WikiLeaks on July 22, 2016, were you told that WikiLeaks possessed or might possess additional information that could be released during the campaign? If yes, describe who provided this information, when, and what you were told. TRUMP: Response to Question II, Part (b): I recall that in the months leading up to the election there was considerable media reporting about the possible hacking and release of campaign-related information and there was a lot of talk about this matter. At the time, I was generally aware of these media reports and may have discussed these issues with my campaign staff or others, but at this point in time — more than two years later — I have no recollection of any particular conversation, when it occurred, or who the participants were. SPECIAL COUNSEL'S OFFICE: c. Are you aware of any communications during the campaign, directly or indirectly, between Roger Stone, Donald Trump Jr., Paul Manafort, or Rick Gates and (a) WikiLeaks, (b) Julian Assange, (c) other representatives of WikiLeaks, (d) Guccifer 2.0, (e) representatives of Guccifer 2.0, or (f) representatives of DCLeaks? If yes, describe who provided you with this information, when you learned of the communications, and what you know about those communications. TRUMP: Response to Question II, Part (c): I do not recall being aware during the campaign of any communications between the individuals named in Question II (c) and anyone I understood to be a representative of WikiLeaks or any of the other individuals or entities referred to in the question. SPECIAL COUNSEL'S OFFICE: d. On July 27, 2016, you stated at a press conference: "Russia, if you're listening, I hope you're able to find the 30,000 emails that are missing. I think you will probably be rewarded mightily by our press." i. Why did you make that request of Russia, as opposed to any other country, entity, or individual? ii. In advance of making that statement, what discussions, if any, did you have with anyone else about the substance of the statement? iii. Were you told at any time before or after you made that statement that Russia was attempting to infiltrate or hack computer systems or email accounts of Hillary Clinton or her campaign? If yes, describe who provided this information, when, and what you were told. TRUMP: Response to Question II, Part (d): I made the statement quoted in Question II (d) in jest and sarcastically, as was apparent to any objective observer. The context of the statement is evident in the full reading or viewing of the July 27, 2016 press conference, and I refer you to the publicly available transcript and video of that press conference. I do not recall having any discussion about the substance of the statement in advance of the press conference. I do not recall being told during the campaign of any efforts by Russia to infiltrate or hack the computer systems or email accounts of Hillary Clinton or her campaign prior to them becoming the subject of media reporting and I have no recollection of any particular conversation in that regard. SPECIAL COUNSEL'S OFFICE: e. On October 7, 2016, emails hacked from the account of John Podesta were released by WikiLeaks. i. Where were you on October 7, 2016? ii. Were you told at any time in advance of, or on the day of, the October 7 release that WikiLeaks possessed or might possess emails related to John Podesta? If yes, describe who told you this, when, and what you were told. iii. Are you aware of anyone associated with you or your campaign, including Roger Stone, reaching out to WikiLeaks, either directly or through an intermediary, on or about October 7, 2016? If yes, identify the person and describe the substance of the conversations or contacts. TRUMP: Response to Question II, Part (e): I was in Trump Tower in New York City on October 7, 2016. I have no recollection of being told that WikiLeaks possessed or might possess emails related to John Podesta before the release of Mr. Podesta's emails was reported by the media. Likewise, I have no recollection of being told that Roger Stone, anyone acting as an intermediary for Roger Stone, or anyone associated with my campaign had communicated with WikiLeaks on October 7, 2016. SPECIAL COUNSEL'S OFFICE: f. Were you told of anyone associated with you or your campaign, including Roger Stone, having any discussions, directly or indirectly, with WikiLeaks, Guccifer 2.0, or DCLeaks regarding the content or timing of release of hacked emails? If yes, describe who had such contacts, how you became aware of the contacts, when you became aware of the contacts, and the substance of the contacts. TRUMP: Response to Question II, Part (f): I do not recall being told during the campaign that Roger Stone or anyone associated with my campaign had discussions with any of the entities named in the question regarding the content or timing of release of hacked emails. SPECIAL COUNSEL'S OFFICE: g. From June 1, 2016 through the end of the campaign, how frequently did you communicate with Roger Stone? Describe the nature of your communication(s) with Mr. Stone. i. During that time period, what efforts did Mr. Stone tell you he was making to assist your campaign, and what requests, if any, did you make of Mr. Stone? ii. Did Mr. Stone ever discuss WikiLeaks with you or, as far as you were aware, with anyone else associated with the campaign? If yes, describe what you were told, from whom, and when. iii. Did Mr. Stone at any time inform you about contacts he had with WikiLeaks or any intermediary of WikiLeaks, or about forthcoming releases of information? If yes, describe what Stone told you and when. TRUMP: Response to Question ll, Part (g): I spoke by telephone with Roger Stone from time to time during the campaign. I have no recollection of the specifics of any conversations I had with Mr. Stone between June 1.2016 and November 8, 2016. I do not recall discussing WikiLeaks with him, nor do I recall being aware of Mr. Stone having discussed WikiLeaks with individuals associated with my campaign, although I was aware that WikiLeaks was the subject of media reporting and campaign-related discussion at the time. SPECIAL COUNSEL'S OFFICE: h. Did you have any discussions prior to January 20, 2017, regarding a potential pardon or other action to benefit Julian Assange? If yes, describe who you had the discussion(s) with, when, and the content of the discussion(s). TRUMP: Response to Question II, Part (h): I do not recall having had any discussion during the campaign regarding a pardon or action to benefit Julian Assange. SPECIAL COUNSEL'S OFFICE: i. Were you aware of any efforts by foreign individuals or companies, including those in Russia, to assist your campaign through the use of social media postings or the organization of rallies? If yes, identify who you discussed such assistance with, when, and the content of the discussion(s). TRUMP: Response to Question II, Part (i): I do not recall being aware during the campaign of specific efforts by foreign individuals or companies to assist my campaign through the use of social media postings or the organization of rallies. ___ III. THE TRUMP ORGANIZATION MOSCOW PROJECT SPECIAL COUNSEL'S OFFICE: a. In October 2015, a "Letter of Intent," a copy of which is attached as Exhibit B, was signed for a proposed Trump Organization project in Moscow (the "Trump Moscow project"). i. When were you first informed of discussions about the Trump Moscow project? By whom? What were you told about the project? ii. Did you sign the letter of intent? b. In a statement provided to Congress, attached as Exhibit C, Michael Cohen stated: "To the best of my knowledge, Mr. Trump was never in contact with anyone about this proposal other than me on three occasions, including signing a non-binding letter of intent in 2015." Describe all discussions you had with Mr. Cohen, or anyone else associated with the Trump Organization, about the Trump Moscow project, including who you spoke with, when, and the substance of the discussion(s). c. Did you learn of any communications between Michael Cohen or Felix Sater and any Russian government officials, including officials in the office of Dmitry Peskov, regarding the Trump Moscow project? If so, identify who provided this information to you, when, and the substance of what you learned. d. Did you have any discussions between June 2015 and June 2016 regarding a potential trip to Russia by you and/or Michael Cohen for reasons related to the Trump Moscow project? If yes, describe who you spoke with, when, and the substance of the discussion(s). e. Did you at any time direct or suggest that discussions about the Trump Moscow project should cease, or were you informed at any time that the project had been abandoned? If yes, describe who you spoke with, when, the substance of the discussion(s), and why that decision was made. f. Did you have any discussions regarding what information would be provided publicly or in response to investigative inquiries about potential or actual investments or business deals the Trump Organization had in Russia, including the Trump Moscow project? If yes, describe who you spoke with, when, and the substance of the discussion(s). g. Aside from the Trump Moscow project, did you or the Trump Organization have any other prospective or actual business interests, investments, or arrangements with Russia or any Russian interest or Russian individual during the campaign? If yes, describe the business interests, investments, or arrangements. TRUMP: Response to Question III, Parts (a) through (g): Sometime in 2015, Michael Cohen suggested to me the possibility of a Trump Organization project in Moscow. As I recall, Mr. Cohen described this as a proposed project of a general type we have done in the past in a variety of locations. I signed the non-binding Letter of Intent attached to your questions as Exhibit B which required no equity or expenditure on our end and was consistent with our ongoing efforts to expand into significant markets around the world. I had few conversations with Mr. Cohen on this subject. As I recall, they were brief, and they were not memorable. I was not enthused about the proposal, and I do not recall any discussion of travel to Russia in connection with it. I do not remember discussing it with anyone else at the Trump Organization, although it is possible. I do not recall being aware at the time of any communications between Mr. Cohen or Felix Sater and any Russian government official regarding the Letter of Intent. In the course of preparing to respond to your questions, I have become aware that Mr. Cohen sent an email regarding the Letter of Intent to "Mr. Peskov" at a general, public email account, which should show there was no meaningful relationship with people in power in Russia. I understand those documents already have been provided to you. I vaguely remember press inquiries and media reporting during the campaign about whether the Trump Organization had business dealings in Russia. I may have spoken with campaign staff or Trump Organization employees regarding responses to requests for information, but I have no current recollection of any particular conversation, with whom I may have spoken, when, or the substance of any conversation. As I recall, neither I nor the Trump Organization had any projects or proposed projects in Russia during the campaign other than the Letter of Intent. ___ IV. CONTACTS WITH RUSSIA AND RUSSIA-RELATED ISSUES DURING THE CAMPAIGN SPECIAL COUNSEL'S OFFICE: a. Prior to mid-August 2016, did you become aware that Paul Manafort had ties to the Ukrainian government? If yes, describe who you learned this information from, when, and the substance of what you were told. Did Mr. Manafort's connections to the Ukrainian or Russian governments play any role in your decision to have him join your campaign? If yes, describe that role. b. Were you aware that Paul Manafort offered briefings on the progress of your campaign to Oleg Deripaska? If yes, describe who you learned this information from, when, the substance of what you were told, what you understood the purpose was of sharing such information with Mr. Deripaska, and how you responded to learning this information. c. Were you aware of whether Paul Manafort or anyone else associated with your campaign sent or directed others to send internal Trump campaign information to any person located in Ukraine or Russia or associated with the Ukrainian or Russian governments? If yes, identify who provided you with this information, when, the substance of the discussion(s), what you understood the purpose was of sharing the internal campaign information, and how you responded to learning this information. d. Did Paul Manafort communicate to you, directly or indirectly, any posit ions Ukraine or Russia would want the U.S. to support? If yes, describe when he communicated those positions to you and the substance of those communications. TRUMP: Response to Question IV, Parts (a) through (d): Mr. Manafort was hired primarily because of his delegate work for prior presidential candidates, including Gerald Ford, Ronald Reagan, George H.W. Bush, and Bob Dole. I knew that Mr. Manafort had done international consulting work and, at some time before Mr. Manafort left the campaign, I learned that he was somehow involved with individuals concerning Ukraine, but I do not remember the specifics of what I knew at the time. l had no knowledge of Mr. Manafort offering briefings on the progress of my campaign to an individual named Oleg Deripaska, nor do I remember being aware of Mr. Manafort or anyone else associated with my campaign sending or directing others to send internal Trump Campaign information to anyone I knew to be in Ukraine or Russia at the time or to anyone I understood to be a Ukrainian or Russian government employee or official. I do not remember Mr. Manafort communicating to me any particular positions Ukraine or Russia would want the United States to support. SPECIAL COUNSEL'S OFFICE: e. During the campaign, were you told about efforts by Russian officials to meet with you or senior members of your campaign? If yes, describe who you had conversations with on this topic, when, and what you were told. TRUMP: Response to Question IV, Part (e): I do not recall being told during the campaign of efforts by Russian officials to meet with me or with senior members of my campaign. In the process of preparing to respond to these questions, I became aware that on March 17, 2016, my assistant at the Trump Organization, Rhona Graff, received an email from a Sergei Prikhodko, who identified himself as Deputy Prime Minister of the Russian Federation, Foundation Roscongress, inviting me to participate in the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum to be held in June 2016. The documents show that Ms. Graff prepared for my signature a brief response declining the invitation. I understand these documents already have been produced to you. SPECIAL COUNSEL'S OFFICE: f. What role, if any, did you have in changing the Republican Party platform regarding arming Ukraine during the Republican National Convention? Prior to the convention, what information did you have about this platform provision? After the platform provision was changed, who told you about the change, when did they tell you, what were you told about why it was changed, and who was involved? TRUMP: Response to Question IV, Part (f): I have no recollection of the details of what, when, or from what source I first learned about the change to the platform amendment regarding arming Ukraine, but I generally recall learning of the issue as part of media reporting. I do not recall being involved in changing the language to the amendment. SPECIAL COUNSEL'S OFFICE: g. On July 27, 2016, in response to a question about whether you would recognize Crimea as Russian territory and lift sanctions on Russia, you said: "We'll be looking at that. Yeah, we'll be looking." Did you intend to communicate by that statement or at any other time during the campaign a willingness to lift sanctions and/or recognize Russia's annexation of Crimea if you were elected? i. What consideration did you give to lifting sanctions and/or recognizing Russia's annexation of Crimea if you were elected? Describe who you spoke with about this topic, when, the substance of the discussion(s). TRUMP: Response to Question IV, Part (g): My statement did not communicate any position. ___ V. CONTACTS WITH RUSSIA AND RUSSIA-RELATED ISSUES DURING THE TRANSITION SPECIAL COUNSEL'S OFFICE: a. Were you asked to attend the World Chess Championship gala on November 10, 2016? If yes, who asked you to attend, when were you asked, and what were you told about why your presence was requested? i. Did you attend any part of the event? If yes, describe any interactions you had with any Russians or representatives of the Russian government at the event. TRUMP: Response to Question V, Part (a): I do not remember having been asked to attend the World Chess Championship gala, and I did not attend the event. During the course of preparing to respond to these questions, I have become aware of documents indicating that in March of 2016, the president of the World Chess Federation invited the Trump Organization to host, at Trump Tower, the 2016 World Chess Championship Match to be held in New York in November 2016. I have also become aware that in November 2016 , there were press inquiries to my staff regarding whether I had plans to attend the tournament , which was not being held at Trump Tower. I understand these documents have already been provided to you. SPECIAL COUNSEL'S OFFICE: b. Following the Obama Administration's imposition of sanctions on Russia in December 2016 ("Russia sanctions"), did you discuss with Lieutenant General (LTG) Michael Flynn, K.T. McFarland, Steve Bannon, Reince Priebus, Jared Kushner, Erik Prince, or anyone else associated with the transition what should be communicated to the Russian government regarding the sanctions? If yes, describe who you spoke with about this issue, when, and the substance of the discussion(s). c. On December 29 and December 31, 2016, LTG Flynn had conversations with Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak about the Russia sanctions and Russia's response to the Russia sanctions. i. Did you direct or suggest that LTG Flynn have discussions with anyone from the Russian government about the Russia sanctions? ii. Were you told in advance of LTG Flynn's December 29, 2016 conversation that he was going to be speaking with Ambassador Kislyak? If yes, describe who told you this information, when, and what you were told. If no, when and from whom did you learn of LTG Flynn's December 29, 2016 conversation with Ambassador Kislyak? iii. When did you learn of LTG Flynn and Ambassador Kislyak's call on December 31, 2016? Who told you and what were you told? iv. When did you learn that sanctions were discussed in the December 29 and December 31, 2016 calls between LTG Flynn and Ambassador Kislyak? Who told you and what were you told? d. At any time between December 31, 2016, and January 20, 2017, did anyone tell you or suggest to you that Russia's decision not to impose reciprocal sanctions was attributable in any way to LTG Flynn's communications with Ambassador Kislyak? If yes, identify who provided you with this information, when, and the substance of what you were told. e. On January 12, 2017, the Washington Post published a column that stated that LTG Flynn phoned Ambassador Kislyak several times on December 29, 2016. After learning of the column, did you direct or suggest to anyone that LTG Flynn should deny that he discussed sanctions with Ambassador Kislyak? If yes, who did you make this suggestion or direction to, when, what did you say, and why did you take this step? i. After learning of the column, did you have any conversations with LTG Flynn about his conversations with Ambassador Kislyak in December 2016? If yes, describe when those discussions occurred and the content of the discussions. f. Were you told about a meeting between Jared Kushner and Sergei Gorkov that took place in December 2016? i. If yes, describe who you spoke with, when, the substance of the discussion(s), and what you understood was the purpose of the meeting. g. Were you told about a meeting or meetings between Erik Prince and Kirill Dmitriev or any other representative from the Russian government that took place in January 2017? i. If yes, describe who you spoke with, when, the substance of the discussion(s), and what you understood was the purpose of the meeting(s). h. Prior to January 20, 2017, did you talk to Steve Bannon, Jared Kushner, or any other individual associated with the transition regarding establishing an unofficial line of communication with Russia? If yes, describe who you spoke with, when, the substance of the discussion(s), and what you understood was the purpose of such an unofficial line of communication. TRUMP: (No answer provided.)

Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — Robert Mueller's 448-page investigative report into allegations of Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election includes 23 unredacted pages of Mueller's written questions and Donald Trump's written responses, the only direct exchange between the special counsel's office and the president. Mueller's team writes that it tried to interview the president for more than a year before Trump submitted written testimony in response to questions on certain Russia-related topics in November 2018. An introductory note included in the report said the special counsel's office found the responses indicative of "the inadequacy of the written format," especially given the office's inability to ask follow-up questions. Citing dozens of answers that Mueller's team considered incomplete, imprecise or unable to be provided because of the president's lack of recollections — for instance, the president gave no response at all to the final set of questions — the special counsel's office again sought an in-person interview with Trump that he again declined. The full exchange between Mueller's team and Trump: ___ I. JUNE 9, 2016 MEETING AT TRUMP TOWER SPECIAL COUNSEL'S OFFICE: a. When did you first learn that Donald Trump Jr., Paul Manafort, or Jared Kushner was considering participating in a meeting in June 2016 concerning potentially negative information about Hillary Clinton? Describe who you learned the information from and the substance of the discussion. b. Attached to this document as Exhibit A is a series of emails from June 2016 between, among others, Donald Trump Jr. and Rob Goldstone. In addition to the emails reflected in Exhibit A, Donald Trump Jr. had other communications with Rob Goldstone and Emin Agalarov between June 3, 2016, and June 9, 2016. i. Did Mr. Trump Jr. or anyone else tell you about or show you any of these communications? If yes, describe who discussed the communications with you, when, and the substance of the discussion(s). ii. When did you first see or learn about all or any part of the emails reflected in Exhibit A? iii. When did you first learn that the proposed meeting involved or was described as being part of Russia and its government's support for your candidacy? iv. Did you suggest to or direct anyone not to discuss or release publicly all or any portion of the emails reflected in Exhibit A? If yes, describe who you communicated with, when, the substance of the communication(s), and why you took that action. c. On June 9, 2016, Donald Trump Jr., Paul Manafort, and Jared Kushner attended a meeting at Trump Tower with several individuals, including a Russian lawyer, Natalia Veselnitskaya (the "June 9 meeting"). i. Other than as set forth in your answers to I.a and I.b, what, if anything, were you told about the possibility of this meeting taking place, or the scheduling of such a meeting? Describe who you discussed this with, when, and what you were informed about the meeting. ii. When did you learn that some of the individuals attending the June 9 meeting were Russian or had any affiliation with any part of the Russian government? Describe who you learned this information from and the substance of the discussion(s). iii. What were you told about what was discussed at the June 9 meeting? Describe each conversation in which you were told about what was discussed at the meeting, who the conversation was with, when it occurred, and the substance of the statements they made about the meeting. iv. Were you told that the June 9 meeting was about, in whole or in part, adoption and/or the Magnitsky Act? If yes, describe who you had that discussion with, when, and the substance of the discussion. PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP: Response to Question l, Parts (a) through (c): I have no recollection of learning at the time that Donald Trump Jr., Paul Manafort, or Jared Kushner was considering participating in a meeting in June 2016 concerning potentially negative information about Hillary Clinton. Nor do I recall learning during the campaign that the June 9, 2016 meeting had taken place, that the referenced emails existed, or that Donald J. Trump Jr., had other communications with Emin Agalarov or Robert Goldstone between June 3, 2016 and June 9, 2016. SPECIAL COUNSEL'S OFFICE: d. For the period June 6, 2016 through June 9, 2016, for what portion of each day were you in Trump Tower? i. Did you speak or meet with Donald Trump Jr., Paul Manafort, or Jared Kushner on June 9, 2016? If yes, did any portion of any of those conversations or meetings include any reference to any aspect of the June 9 meeting? If yes, describe who you spoke with and the substance of the conversation. TRUMP: Response to Question I, Part (d): I have no independent recollection of what portion of these four days in June of 2016 I spent in Trump Tower. This was one of many busy months during a fast-paced campaign, as the primary season was ending and we were preparing for the general election campaign. I am now aware that my Campaign's calendar indicates that I was in New York City from June 6-9, 2016. Calendars kept in my Trump Tower office reflect that I had various calls and meetings scheduled for each of these days. While those calls and meetings may or may not actually have taken place, they do indicate that I was in Trump Tower during a portion of each of these working days, and I have no reason to doubt that I was. When I was in New York City, I stayed at my Trump Tower apartment. My Trump Organization desk calendar also reflects that I was outside Trump Tower during portions of these days. The June 7, 2016 calendar indicates I was scheduled to leave Trump Tower in the early evening for Westchester where I gave remarks after winning the California, New Jersey, New Mexico, Montana, and South Dakota Republican primaries held that day. The June 8, 2016 calendar indicates a scheduled departure in late afternoon to attend a ceremony at my son's school. The June 9, 2016 calendar indicates I was scheduled to attend midday meetings and a fundraising luncheon at the Four Seasons Hotel. At this point, I do not remember on what dales these events occurred, but I do not currently have a reason to doubt that they took place as scheduled on my calendar. Widely available media reports, including television footage, also shed light on my activities during these days. For example, I am aware that my June 7, 2016 victory remarks at the Trump National Golf Club in Briarcliff Manor, New York, were recorded and published by the media. I remember winning those primaries and generally recall delivering remarks that evening. At this point in time, I do not remember whether I spoke or met with Donald Trump Jr., Paul Manafort, or Jared Kushner on June 9, 2016. My desk calendar indicates I was scheduled to meet with Paul Manafort on the morning of June 9, but I do not recall if that meeting took place. It was more than two years ago, at a time when I had many calls and interactions daily. SPECIAL COUNSEL'S OFFICE: e. Did you communicate directly or indirectly with any member or representative of the Agalarov family after June 3, 2016? If yes, describe who you spoke with, when, and the substance of the communication. TRUMP: Response to Question I, Part (e): I have no independent recollection of any communications I had with the Agalarov family or anyone I understood to be a representative of the Agalarov family after June 3, 2016 and before the end of the campaign. While preparing to respond to these questions, I have become aware of written communications with the Agalarovs during the campaign that were sent, received, and largely authored by my staff and which I understand have already been produced to you. In general, the documents include congratulatory letters on my campaign victories, emails about a painting Emin and Aras Agalarov arranged to have delivered to Trump Tower as a birthday present, and emails regarding delivery of a book written by Aras Agalarov. The documents reflect that the deliveries were screened by the Secret Service. SPECIAL COUNSEL'S OFFICE: f. Did you learn of any communications between Donald Trump Jr., Paul Manafort, or Jared Kushner and any member or representative of the Agalarov family, Natalia Veselnitskaya, Rob Goldstone, or any Russian official or contact that took place after June 9, 2016 and concerned the June 9 meeting or efforts by Russia to assist the campaign? If yes, describe who you learned this information from, when, and the substance of what you learned. TRUMP: Response to Question I, Part (f): I do not recall being aware during the campaign of communications between Donald Trump Jr., Paul Manafort, or Jared Kushner and any member or representative of the Agalarov family, Robert Goldstone, Natalia Veselnitskaya (whose name I was not familiar with), or anyone I understood to be a Russian official. SPECIAL COUNSEL'S OFFICE: g. On June 7, 2016, you gave a speech in which you said, in part, "I am going to give a major speech on probably Monday of next week and we're going to be discussing all of the things that have taken place with the Clintons." i. Why did you make that statement? ii. What information did you plan to share with respect to the Clintons? iii. What did you believe the source(s) of that information would be? iv. Did you expect any of the information to have come from the June 9 meeting? v. Did anyone help draft the speech that you were referring to? If so, who? vi. Why did you ultimately not give the speech you referenced on June 7, 2016? TRUMP: Response to Question I, Part (g): In remarks I delivered the night I won the California, New Jersey, New Mexico, Montana, and South Dakota Republican primaries, I said, "I am going to give a major speech on probably Monday of next week and we're going to be discussing all of the things that have taken place with the Clintons." In general, l expected to give a speech referencing the publicly available, negative information about the Clintons, including, for example, Mrs. Clinton's failed policies, the Clintons' use of the State Department to further their interests and the interests of the Clinton Foundation, Mrs. Clinton's improper use of a private server for State Department business, the destruction of 33,000 emails on that server, and Mrs. Clinton's temperamental unsuitability for the office of President. In the course of preparing to respond to your questions, I have become aware that the Campaign documents already produced to you reflect the drafting, evolution, and sources of information for the speech I expected to give "probably" on the Monday following my June 7, 2016 comments. These documents generally show that the text of the speech was initially drafted by Campaign staff with input from various outside advisors and was based on publicly available material, including, in particular, information from the book Clinton Cash by Peter Schweizer. The Pulse Nightclub terrorist attack took place in the early morning hours of Sunday, June 12, 2016. In light of that tragedy, I gave a speech directed more specifically to national security and terrorism than to the Clintons. That speech was delivered at the Saint Anselm College Institute of Politics in Manchester, New Hampshire, and, as reported, opened with the following: "This was going to be a speech on Hillary Clinton and how bad a President, especially in these times of Radical Islamic Terrorism, she would be. Even her former Secret Service Agent, who has seen her under pressure and in times of stress, has stated that she lacks the temperament and integrity to be president. There will be plenty of opportunity to discuss these important issues at a later time, and I will deliver that speech soon. But today there is only one thing to discuss: the growing threat of terrorism inside of our borders." I continued to speak about Mrs. Clinton's failings throughout the campaign, using the information prepared for inclusion in the speech to which I referred on June 7, 2016. SPECIAL COUNSEL'S OFFICE: h. Did any person or entity inform you during the campaign that Vladimir Putin or the Russian government supported your candidacy or opposed the candidacy of Hillary Clinton? If yes, describe the source(s) of the information, when you were informed, and the content of such discussion(s). TRUMP: Response to Question I, Part (h): I have no recollection of being told during the campaign that Vladimir Putin or the Russian government "supported" my candidacy or "opposed" the candidacy of Hillary Clinton. However, I was aware of some reports indicating that President Putin had made complimentary statements about me. SPECIAL COUNSEL'S OFFICE: i. Did any person or entity inform you during the campaign that any foreign government or foreign leader, other than Russia or Vladimir Putin, had provided, wished to provide, or offered to provide tangible support to your campaign, including by way of offering to provide negative information on Hillary Clinton? If yes, describe the source(s) of the information, when you were informed, and the content of such discussion(s). TRUMP: Response to Question I, Part (i): I have no recollection of being told during the campaign that any foreign government or foreign leader had provided, wished to provide, or offered to provide tangible support to my campaign. ___ II. RUSSIAN HACKING/RUSSIAN EFFORTS USING SOCIAL MEDIA/WIKILEAKS SPECIAL COUNSEL'S OFFICE: a. On June 14, 2016, it was publicly reported that computer hackers had penetrated the computer network of the Democratic National Committee (DNC) and that Russian intelligence was behind the unauthorized access, or hack. Prior to June 14, 2016, were you provided any information about any potential or actual hacking of the computer systems or email accounts of the DNC, the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee (DCCC), the Clinton Campaign, Hillary Clinton, or individuals associated with the Clinton campaign? If yes, describe who provided this information, when, and the substance of the information. TRUMP: Response to Question II, Part (a): I do not remember the date on which it was publicly reported that the DNC had been hacked, but my best recollection is that I learned of the hacking at or shortly after the time it became the subject of media reporting. I do not recall being provided any information during the campaign about the hacking of any of the named entities or individuals before it became the subject of media reporting. SPECIAL COUNSEL'S OFFICE: b. On July 22, 2016, WikiLeaks released nearly 20,000 emails sent or received by Democratic party officials. i. Prior to the July 22, 2016 release, were you aware from any source that WikiLeaks, Guccifer 2.0, DCLeaks, or Russians had or potentially had possession of or planned to release emails or information that could help your campaign or hurt the Clinton campaign? If yes, describe who you discussed this issue with, when, and the substance of the discussion(s). ii. After the release of emails by WikiLeaks on July 22, 2016, were you told that WikiLeaks possessed or might possess additional information that could be released during the campaign? If yes, describe who provided this information, when, and what you were told. TRUMP: Response to Question II, Part (b): I recall that in the months leading up to the election there was considerable media reporting about the possible hacking and release of campaign-related information and there was a lot of talk about this matter. At the time, I was generally aware of these media reports and may have discussed these issues with my campaign staff or others, but at this point in time — more than two years later — I have no recollection of any particular conversation, when it occurred, or who the participants were. SPECIAL COUNSEL'S OFFICE: c. Are you aware of any communications during the campaign, directly or indirectly, between Roger Stone, Donald Trump Jr., Paul Manafort, or Rick Gates and (a) WikiLeaks, (b) Julian Assange, (c) other representatives of WikiLeaks, (d) Guccifer 2.0, (e) representatives of Guccifer 2.0, or (f) representatives of DCLeaks? If yes, describe who provided you with this information, when you learned of the communications, and what you know about those communications. TRUMP: Response to Question II, Part (c): I do not recall being aware during the campaign of any communications between the individuals named in Question II (c) and anyone I understood to be a representative of WikiLeaks or any of the other individuals or entities referred to in the question. SPECIAL COUNSEL'S OFFICE: d. On July 27, 2016, you stated at a press conference: "Russia, if you're listening, I hope you're able to find the 30,000 emails that are missing. I think you will probably be rewarded mightily by our press." i. Why did you make that request of Russia, as opposed to any other country, entity, or individual? ii. In advance of making that statement, what discussions, if any, did you have with anyone else about the substance of the statement? iii. Were you told at any time before or after you made that statement that Russia was attempting to infiltrate or hack computer systems or email accounts of Hillary Clinton or her campaign? If yes, describe who provided this information, when, and what you were told. TRUMP: Response to Question II, Part (d): I made the statement quoted in Question II (d) in jest and sarcastically, as was apparent to any objective observer. The context of the statement is evident in the full reading or viewing of the July 27, 2016 press conference, and I refer you to the publicly available transcript and video of that press conference. I do not recall having any discussion about the substance of the statement in advance of the press conference. I do not recall being told during the campaign of any efforts by Russia to infiltrate or hack the computer systems or email accounts of Hillary Clinton or her campaign prior to them becoming the subject of media reporting and I have no recollection of any particular conversation in that regard. SPECIAL COUNSEL'S OFFICE: e. On October 7, 2016, emails hacked from the account of John Podesta were released by WikiLeaks. i. Where were you on October 7, 2016? ii. Were you told at any time in advance of, or on the day of, the October 7 release that WikiLeaks possessed or might possess emails related to John Podesta? If yes, describe who told you this, when, and what you were told. iii. Are you aware of anyone associated with you or your campaign, including Roger Stone, reaching out to WikiLeaks, either directly or through an intermediary, on or about October 7, 2016? If yes, identify the person and describe the substance of the conversations or contacts. TRUMP: Response to Question II, Part (e): I was in Trump Tower in New York City on October 7, 2016. I have no recollection of being told that WikiLeaks possessed or might possess emails related to John Podesta before the release of Mr. Podesta's emails was reported by the media. Likewise, I have no recollection of being told that Roger Stone, anyone acting as an intermediary for Roger Stone, or anyone associated with my campaign had communicated with WikiLeaks on October 7, 2016. SPECIAL COUNSEL'S OFFICE: f. Were you told of anyone associated with you or your campaign, including Roger Stone, having any discussions, directly or indirectly, with WikiLeaks, Guccifer 2.0, or DCLeaks regarding the content or timing of release of hacked emails? If yes, describe who had such contacts, how you became aware of the contacts, when you became aware of the contacts, and the substance of the contacts. TRUMP: Response to Question II, Part (f): I do not recall being told during the campaign that Roger Stone or anyone associated with my campaign had discussions with any of the entities named in the question regarding the content or timing of release of hacked emails. SPECIAL COUNSEL'S OFFICE: g. From June 1, 2016 through the end of the campaign, how frequently did you communicate with Roger Stone? Describe the nature of your communication(s) with Mr. Stone. i. During that time period, what efforts did Mr. Stone tell you he was making to assist your campaign, and what requests, if any, did you make of Mr. Stone? ii. Did Mr. Stone ever discuss WikiLeaks with you or, as far as you were aware, with anyone else associated with the campaign? If yes, describe what you were told, from whom, and when. iii. Did Mr. Stone at any time inform you about contacts he had with WikiLeaks or any intermediary of WikiLeaks, or about forthcoming releases of information? If yes, describe what Stone told you and when. TRUMP: Response to Question ll, Part (g): I spoke by telephone with Roger Stone from time to time during the campaign. I have no recollection of the specifics of any conversations I had with Mr. Stone between June 1.2016 and November 8, 2016. I do not recall discussing WikiLeaks with him, nor do I recall being aware of Mr. Stone having discussed WikiLeaks with individuals associated with my campaign, although I was aware that WikiLeaks was the subject of media reporting and campaign-related discussion at the time. SPECIAL COUNSEL'S OFFICE: h. Did you have any discussions prior to January 20, 2017, regarding a potential pardon or other action to benefit Julian Assange? If yes, describe who you had the discussion(s) with, when, and the content of the discussion(s). TRUMP: Response to Question II, Part (h): I do not recall having had any discussion during the campaign regarding a pardon or action to benefit Julian Assange. SPECIAL COUNSEL'S OFFICE: i. Were you aware of any efforts by foreign individuals or companies, including those in Russia, to assist your campaign through the use of social media postings or the organization of rallies? If yes, identify who you discussed such assistance with, when, and the content of the discussion(s). TRUMP: Response to Question II, Part (i): I do not recall being aware during the campaign of specific efforts by foreign individuals or companies to assist my campaign through the use of social media postings or the organization of rallies. ___ III. THE TRUMP ORGANIZATION MOSCOW PROJECT SPECIAL COUNSEL'S OFFICE: a. In October 2015, a "Letter of Intent," a copy of which is attached as Exhibit B, was signed for a proposed Trump Organization project in Moscow (the "Trump Moscow project"). i. When were you first informed of discussions about the Trump Moscow project? By whom? What were you told about the project? ii. Did you sign the letter of intent? b. In a statement provided to Congress, attached as Exhibit C, Michael Cohen stated: "To the best of my knowledge, Mr. Trump was never in contact with anyone about this proposal other than me on three occasions, including signing a non-binding letter of intent in 2015." Describe all discussions you had with Mr. Cohen, or anyone else associated with the Trump Organization, about the Trump Moscow project, including who you spoke with, when, and the substance of the discussion(s). c. Did you learn of any communications between Michael Cohen or Felix Sater and any Russian government officials, including officials in the office of Dmitry Peskov, regarding the Trump Moscow project? If so, identify who provided this information to you, when, and the substance of what you learned. d. Did you have any discussions between June 2015 and June 2016 regarding a potential trip to Russia by you and/or Michael Cohen for reasons related to the Trump Moscow project? If yes, describe who you spoke with, when, and the substance of the discussion(s). e. Did you at any time direct or suggest that discussions about the Trump Moscow project should cease, or were you informed at any time that the project had been abandoned? If yes, describe who you spoke with, when, the substance of the discussion(s), and why that decision was made. f. Did you have any discussions regarding what information would be provided publicly or in response to investigative inquiries about potential or actual investments or business deals the Trump Organization had in Russia, including the Trump Moscow project? If yes, describe who you spoke with, when, and the substance of the discussion(s). g. Aside from the Trump Moscow project, did you or the Trump Organization have any other prospective or actual business interests, investments, or arrangements with Russia or any Russian interest or Russian individual during the campaign? If yes, describe the business interests, investments, or arrangements. TRUMP: Response to Question III, Parts (a) through (g): Sometime in 2015, Michael Cohen suggested to me the possibility of a Trump Organization project in Moscow. As I recall, Mr. Cohen described this as a proposed project of a general type we have done in the past in a variety of locations. I signed the non-binding Letter of Intent attached to your questions as Exhibit B which required no equity or expenditure on our end and was consistent with our ongoing efforts to expand into significant markets around the world. I had few conversations with Mr. Cohen on this subject. As I recall, they were brief, and they were not memorable. I was not enthused about the proposal, and I do not recall any discussion of travel to Russia in connection with it. I do not remember discussing it with anyone else at the Trump Organization, although it is possible. I do not recall being aware at the time of any communications between Mr. Cohen or Felix Sater and any Russian government official regarding the Letter of Intent. In the course of preparing to respond to your questions, I have become aware that Mr. Cohen sent an email regarding the Letter of Intent to "Mr. Peskov" at a general, public email account, which should show there was no meaningful relationship with people in power in Russia. I understand those documents already have been provided to you. I vaguely remember press inquiries and media reporting during the campaign about whether the Trump Organization had business dealings in Russia. I may have spoken with campaign staff or Trump Organization employees regarding responses to requests for information, but I have no current recollection of any particular conversation, with whom I may have spoken, when, or the substance of any conversation. As I recall, neither I nor the Trump Organization had any projects or proposed projects in Russia during the campaign other than the Letter of Intent. ___ IV. CONTACTS WITH RUSSIA AND RUSSIA-RELATED ISSUES DURING THE CAMPAIGN SPECIAL COUNSEL'S OFFICE: a. Prior to mid-August 2016, did you become aware that Paul Manafort had ties to the Ukrainian government? If yes, describe who you learned this information from, when, and the substance of what you were told. Did Mr. Manafort's connections to the Ukrainian or Russian governments play any role in your decision to have him join your campaign? If yes, describe that role. b. Were you aware that Paul Manafort offered briefings on the progress of your campaign to Oleg Deripaska? If yes, describe who you learned this information from, when, the substance of what you were told, what you understood the purpose was of sharing such information with Mr. Deripaska, and how you responded to learning this information. c. Were you aware of whether Paul Manafort or anyone else associated with your campaign sent or directed others to send internal Trump campaign information to any person located in Ukraine or Russia or associated with the Ukrainian or Russian governments? If yes, identify who provided you with this information, when, the substance of the discussion(s), what you understood the purpose was of sharing the internal campaign information, and how you responded to learning this information. d. Did Paul Manafort communicate to you, directly or indirectly, any posit ions Ukraine or Russia would want the U.S. to support? If yes, describe when he communicated those positions to you and the substance of those communications. TRUMP: Response to Question IV, Parts (a) through (d): Mr. Manafort was hired primarily because of his delegate work for prior presidential candidates, including Gerald Ford, Ronald Reagan, George H.W. Bush, and Bob Dole. I knew that Mr. Manafort had done international consulting work and, at some time before Mr. Manafort left the campaign, I learned that he was somehow involved with individuals concerning Ukraine, but I do not remember the specifics of what I knew at the time. l had no knowledge of Mr. Manafort offering briefings on the progress of my campaign to an individual named Oleg Deripaska, nor do I remember being aware of Mr. Manafort or anyone else associated with my campaign sending or directing others to send internal Trump Campaign information to anyone I knew to be in Ukraine or Russia at the time or to anyone I understood to be a Ukrainian or Russian government employee or official. I do not remember Mr. Manafort communicating to me any particular positions Ukraine or Russia would want the United States to support. SPECIAL COUNSEL'S OFFICE: e. During the campaign, were you told about efforts by Russian officials to meet with you or senior members of your campaign? If yes, describe who you had conversations with on this topic, when, and what you were told. TRUMP: Response to Question IV, Part (e): I do not recall being told during the campaign of efforts by Russian officials to meet with me or with senior members of my campaign. In the process of preparing to respond to these questions, I became aware that on March 17, 2016, my assistant at the Trump Organization, Rhona Graff, received an email from a Sergei Prikhodko, who identified himself as Deputy Prime Minister of the Russian Federation, Foundation Roscongress, inviting me to participate in the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum to be held in June 2016. The documents show that Ms. Graff prepared for my signature a brief response declining the invitation. I understand these documents already have been produced to you. SPECIAL COUNSEL'S OFFICE: f. What role, if any, did you have in changing the Republican Party platform regarding arming Ukraine during the Republican National Convention? Prior to the convention, what information did you have about this platform provision? After the platform provision was changed, who told you about the change, when did they tell you, what were you told about why it was changed, and who was involved? TRUMP: Response to Question IV, Part (f): I have no recollection of the details of what, when, or from what source I first learned about the change to the platform amendment regarding arming Ukraine, but I generally recall learning of the issue as part of media reporting. I do not recall being involved in changing the language to the amendment. SPECIAL COUNSEL'S OFFICE: g. On July 27, 2016, in response to a question about whether you would recognize Crimea as Russian territory and lift sanctions on Russia, you said: "We'll be looking at that. Yeah, we'll be looking." Did you intend to communicate by that statement or at any other time during the campaign a willingness to lift sanctions and/or recognize Russia's annexation of Crimea if you were elected? i. What consideration did you give to lifting sanctions and/or recognizing Russia's annexation of Crimea if you were elected? Describe who you spoke with about this topic, when, the substance of the discussion(s). TRUMP: Response to Question IV, Part (g): My statement did not communicate any position. ___ V. CONTACTS WITH RUSSIA AND RUSSIA-RELATED ISSUES DURING THE TRANSITION SPECIAL COUNSEL'S OFFICE: a. Were you asked to attend the World Chess Championship gala on November 10, 2016? If yes, who asked you to attend, when were you asked, and what were you told about why your presence was requested? i. Did you attend any part of the event? If yes, describe any interactions you had with any Russians or representatives of the Russian government at the event. TRUMP: Response to Question V, Part (a): I do not remember having been asked to attend the World Chess Championship gala, and I did not attend the event. During the course of preparing to respond to these questions, I have become aware of documents indicating that in March of 2016, the president of the World Chess Federation invited the Trump Organization to host, at Trump Tower, the 2016 World Chess Championship Match to be held in New York in November 2016. I have also become aware that in November 2016 , there were press inquiries to my staff regarding whether I had plans to attend the tournament , which was not being held at Trump Tower. I understand these documents have already been provided to you. SPECIAL COUNSEL'S OFFICE: b. Following the Obama Administration's imposition of sanctions on Russia in December 2016 ("Russia sanctions"), did you discuss with Lieutenant General (LTG) Michael Flynn, K.T. McFarland, Steve Bannon, Reince Priebus, Jared Kushner, Erik Prince, or anyone else associated with the transition what should be communicated to the Russian government regarding the sanctions? If yes, describe who you spoke with about this issue, when, and the substance of the discussion(s). c. On December 29 and December 31, 2016, LTG Flynn had conversations with Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak about the Russia sanctions and Russia's response to the Russia sanctions. i. Did you direct or suggest that LTG Flynn have discussions with anyone from the Russian government about the Russia sanctions? ii. Were you told in advance of LTG Flynn's December 29, 2016 conversation that he was going to be speaking with Ambassador Kislyak? If yes, describe who told you this information, when, and what you were told. If no, when and from whom did you learn of LTG Flynn's December 29, 2016 conversation with Ambassador Kislyak? iii. When did you learn of LTG Flynn and Ambassador Kislyak's call on December 31, 2016? Who told you and what were you told? iv. When did you learn that sanctions were discussed in the December 29 and December 31, 2016 calls between LTG Flynn and Ambassador Kislyak? Who told you and what were you told? d. At any time between December 31, 2016, and January 20, 2017, did anyone tell you or suggest to you that Russia's decision not to impose reciprocal sanctions was attributable in any way to LTG Flynn's communications with Ambassador Kislyak? If yes, identify who provided you with this information, when, and the substance of what you were told. e. On January 12, 2017, the Washington Post published a column that stated that LTG Flynn phoned Ambassador Kislyak several times on December 29, 2016. After learning of the column, did you direct or suggest to anyone that LTG Flynn should deny that he discussed sanctions with Ambassador Kislyak? If yes, who did you make this suggestion or direction to, when, what did you say, and why did you take this step? i. After learning of the column, did you have any conversations with LTG Flynn about his conversations with Ambassador Kislyak in December 2016? If yes, describe when those discussions occurred and the content of the discussions. f. Were you told about a meeting between Jared Kushner and Sergei Gorkov that took place in December 2016? i. If yes, describe who you spoke with, when, the substance of the discussion(s), and what you understood was the purpose of the meeting. g. Were you told about a meeting or meetings between Erik Prince and Kirill Dmitriev or any other representative from the Russian government that took place in January 2017? i. If yes, describe who you spoke with, when, the substance of the discussion(s), and what you understood was the purpose of the meeting(s). h. Prior to January 20, 2017, did you talk to Steve Bannon, Jared Kushner, or any other individual associated with the transition regarding establishing an unofficial line of communication with Russia? If yes, describe who you spoke with, when, the substance of the discussion(s), and what you understood was the purpose of such an unofficial line of communication. TRUMP: (No answer provided.)Supported by At least corporate accountants are having some fun. By Paul Krugman Opinion Columnist So far, Donald Trump has passed only one significant piece of legislation: the 2017 tax cut. It was, to be fair, a pretty big deal: corporations, the principal beneficiaries, have already saved more than $150 billion, and over the course of a decade the tax cut will probably increase the budget deficit by more than $2 trillion. But the tax cut was supposed to do more than just give stockholders more money — or at least that’s what its proponents claimed. It was also supposed to lead to many years of high economic growth, 3 percent or more at an annual rate. Independent observers were skeptical, to say the least. They conceded that the tax cut might lead to a brief sugar high, because that’s what big deficits do. But any favorable effects on growth, they argued, would soon fade out. And they always insisted that it would take some time to assess the tax cut’s actual effects. Nonetheless, when the economy grew pretty fast in the second quarter of last year, Trump and his supporters cried vindication, and ridiculed the critics. But a bit of time has passed since then. The chart shows the U.S. economy’s growth rate by quarter since the beginning of 2018. The last number isn’t official; but there are a number of independent observers, including both Federal Reserve banks and private financial institutions, who produce “nowcasts” that estimate growth based on early data. At this point all of these nowcasts show slowing growth, and most put the first quarter at around 1.5 percent. So do the results so far look like the huge, sustained boom the Trump camp promised, or the brief sugar high predicted by the critics? But Donald Trump is a special kind of leader. When things don’t go his way, when events fail to turn out as he planned and promised, he always knows exactly what to do: Blame someone else. Sure enough, he’s now asserting that we’d be having a yuge economic boom, 3 percent growth, all that, if only the Federal Reserve hadn’t raised interest rates. O. K., this is where you need to be able to hold two ideas in your head at the same time. Was the Fed wrong to raise rates? Probably yes. Does this account for the failure of the Trump tax cut? No. The Fed was clearly overoptimistic about the economy’s prospects, as it has pretty consistently been for the past decade. It’s worth noting that throughout that whole period conservative critics of the Fed — the same people now backing Trump — attacked the institution for keeping interest rates too low, not too high. Still, it’s now clear that the attempt to normalize monetary policy was premature. But the Fed’s premature rate hikes aren’t why the Trump tax cut is failing. How do we know that? Because all those boasts about why the tax cut would work miracles were based on a specific story about what is holding the U.S. economy back. And that story was and is all wrong. The Trumpist theory — which was, I’m sorry to say, endorsed by conservative economists who should have known better — was that there was a huge pile of money sitting outside the U.S. that companies would bring back and invest productively if given the incentive of lower tax rates. But that pile of money was an accounting fiction. And the tax cut didn’t give corporations an incentive to build new factories and so on; all it did was induce them to shift their tax-avoidance strategies. As Brad Setser of the Council on Foreign Relations points out, a casual glance at the data seems to suggest that American companies earn a lot of their profits at their overseas subsidiaries. But a closer look shows that the bulk of these reported profits are in a handful of small countries with low or zero tax rates, like Bermuda, Luxembourg and Ireland. The companies obviously aren’t earning huge profits in these tiny economies; they’re just using accounting gimmicks to assign profits earned elsewhere to subsidiaries that may have a few factories, but sometimes consist of little more than a small office, or even just a post-office box. These basically phony profits then accumulate on the books of the overseas subsidiaries, rather than the home company. But this doesn’t affect their ability to invest in America: if Apple wants to spend a billion dollars here, it can always borrow the money using the assets of its Irish subsidiary as collateral. In other words, U.S. taxes weren’t having any significant effect in deterring real investment in the U.S. economy. When Trump cut the tax rate, some companies “brought money home.” But for the most part this had no economic significance. Here’s how it works: Apple Ireland transfers some of its assets to Apple U.S.A. Officially, Apple Ireland has reduced its investment spending, while paying a dividend to U.S. investors. In reality, Apple as an entity has the same total profits and the same total assets it did before; it hasn’t devoted a single additional dollar to purchases of equipment, R&D, or anything else for its U.S. operations. Not surprisingly, then, the investment boom Trump economists promised has never materialized. Companies didn’t use their tax breaks to invest more; mainly they used them to buy back their own stock. This in turn, put more money in the hands of investors, which gave the economy a temporary boost — although for 2018 as a whole, one of the biggest drivers of faster growth was, believe it or not, higher government spending. So the theory supposedly behind the Trump tax cut has turned out to be a complete bust. Corporate accountants got to have some fun exploring new frontiers in tax avoidance; the rest of us just ended up saddled with an extra $2 trillion or so in debt. Now, I’m not deeply worried about that debt. Given low borrowing costs, the costs and risks of federal debt are far less than the usual suspects — again, the same people who cheered on the Trump tax cut — have claimed. But think of all the other things we could have done with $2 trillion — all the infrastructure we could have built and repaired, all the people who could have been given essential health care. What a colossal, corrupt waste. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Paul Krugman has been an Opinion columnist since 2000 and is also a Distinguished Professor at the City University of New York Graduate Center. He won the 2008 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences for his work on international trade and economic geography.  @PaulKrugman 

Supported by At least corporate accountants are having some fun. By Paul Krugman Opinion Columnist So far, Donald Trump has passed only one significant piece of legislation: the 2017 tax cut. It was, to be fair, a pretty big deal: corporations, the principal beneficiaries, have already saved more than $150 billion, and over the course of a decade the tax cut will probably increase the budget deficit by more than $2 trillion. But the tax cut was supposed to do more than just give stockholders more money — or at least that’s what its proponents claimed. It was also supposed to lead to many years of high economic growth, 3 percent or more at an annual rate. Independent observers were skeptical, to say the least. They conceded that the tax cut might lead to a brief sugar high, because that’s what big deficits do. But any favorable effects on growth, they argued, would soon fade out. And they always insisted that it would take some time to assess the tax cut’s actual effects. Nonetheless, when the economy grew pretty fast in the second quarter of last year, Trump and his supporters cried vindication, and ridiculed the critics. But a bit of time has passed since then. The chart shows the U.S. economy’s growth rate by quarter since the beginning of 2018. The last number isn’t official; but there are a number of independent observers, including both Federal Reserve banks and private financial institutions, who produce “nowcasts” that estimate growth based on early data. At this point all of these nowcasts show slowing growth, and most put the first quarter at around 1.5 percent. So do the results so far look like the huge, sustained boom the Trump camp promised, or the brief sugar high predicted by the critics? But Donald Trump is a special kind of leader. When things don’t go his way, when events fail to turn out as he planned and promised, he always knows exactly what to do: Blame someone else. Sure enough, he’s now asserting that we’d be having a yuge economic boom, 3 percent growth, all that, if only the Federal Reserve hadn’t raised interest rates. O. K., this is where you need to be able to hold two ideas in your head at the same time. Was the Fed wrong to raise rates? Probably yes. Does this account for the failure of the Trump tax cut? No. The Fed was clearly overoptimistic about the economy’s prospects, as it has pretty consistently been for the past decade. It’s worth noting that throughout that whole period conservative critics of the Fed — the same people now backing Trump — attacked the institution for keeping interest rates too low, not too high. Still, it’s now clear that the attempt to normalize monetary policy was premature. But the Fed’s premature rate hikes aren’t why the Trump tax cut is failing. How do we know that? Because all those boasts about why the tax cut would work miracles were based on a specific story about what is holding the U.S. economy back. And that story was and is all wrong. The Trumpist theory — which was, I’m sorry to say, endorsed by conservative economists who should have known better — was that there was a huge pile of money sitting outside the U.S. that companies would bring back and invest productively if given the incentive of lower tax rates. But that pile of money was an accounting fiction. And the tax cut didn’t give corporations an incentive to build new factories and so on; all it did was induce them to shift their tax-avoidance strategies. As Brad Setser of the Council on Foreign Relations points out, a casual glance at the data seems to suggest that American companies earn a lot of their profits at their overseas subsidiaries. But a closer look shows that the bulk of these reported profits are in a handful of small countries with low or zero tax rates, like Bermuda, Luxembourg and Ireland. The companies obviously aren’t earning huge profits in these tiny economies; they’re just using accounting gimmicks to assign profits earned elsewhere to subsidiaries that may have a few factories, but sometimes consist of little more than a small office, or even just a post-office box. These basically phony profits then accumulate on the books of the overseas subsidiaries, rather than the home company. But this doesn’t affect their ability to invest in America: if Apple wants to spend a billion dollars here, it can always borrow the money using the assets of its Irish subsidiary as collateral. In other words, U.S. taxes weren’t having any significant effect in deterring real investment in the U.S. economy. When Trump cut the tax rate, some companies “brought money home.” But for the most part this had no economic significance. Here’s how it works: Apple Ireland transfers some of its assets to Apple U.S.A. Officially, Apple Ireland has reduced its investment spending, while paying a dividend to U.S. investors. In reality, Apple as an entity has the same total profits and the same total assets it did before; it hasn’t devoted a single additional dollar to purchases of equipment, R&D, or anything else for its U.S. operations. Not surprisingly, then, the investment boom Trump economists promised has never materialized. Companies didn’t use their tax breaks to invest more; mainly they used them to buy back their own stock. This in turn, put more money in the hands of investors, which gave the economy a temporary boost — although for 2018 as a whole, one of the biggest drivers of faster growth was, believe it or not, higher government spending. So the theory supposedly behind the Trump tax cut has turned out to be a complete bust. Corporate accountants got to have some fun exploring new frontiers in tax avoidance; the rest of us just ended up saddled with an extra $2 trillion or so in debt. Now, I’m not deeply worried about that debt. Given low borrowing costs, the costs and risks of federal debt are far less than the usual suspects — again, the same people who cheered on the Trump tax cut — have claimed. But think of all the other things we could have done with $2 trillion — all the infrastructure we could have built and repaired, all the people who could have been given essential health care. What a colossal, corrupt waste. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Paul Krugman has been an Opinion columnist since 2000 and is also a Distinguished Professor at the City University of New York Graduate Center. He won the 2008 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences for his work on international trade and economic geography.  @PaulKrugman Supported by By Michael D. Shear and Zolan Kanno-Youngs WASHINGTON — The Trump administration plans to aggressively push for tougher screening of asylum seekers that will make it vastly more difficult for migrants fleeing persecution in their home countries to win protection in the United States, a senior administration official told reporters on Tuesday. The official said that President Trump ordered a shake-up of his top immigration officials in recent days because they were moving too slowly, or even actively obstructing, the president’s desire to confront the surge of migrants at the southwestern border. The asylum changes are among many policies the president wants to put into effect with a new team in place, the official said. Mr. Trump denied on Tuesday that one of those changes would be to restart his policy of separating migrant families at the border, though he said that the act of taking children from their parents — which drew global condemnation before he abandoned it last summer — was effective. “Now I’ll tell you something, once you don’t have it, that’s why you see many more people coming,” Mr. Trump said. “They are coming like it’s a picnic, because, ‘Let’s go to Disneyland.’” The administration official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity even as Mr. Trump was making his remarks, said a modified version of family separation, in which parents are given a choice of whether to be separated or to accept indefinite detention alongside their children, continues to be under consideration. But the so-called binary choice proposal is “not ripe for White House consideration” right now, he insisted, because the government does not currently have the detention space to hold families if the policy were put in place. The asylum changes being envisioned could drastically alter the role that the United States plays as a refuge for people fleeing poverty, violence and war. American and international laws require it to allow migrants to request asylum once they come to the country. But the official said that an initial assessment of the basis for a request for asylum — known as a “credible fear” screening — too often accepts the claim that the migrant was persecuted. The official also said that many more asylum seekers should be rejected during that first step. Out of 97,728 completed interviews with migrants in the fiscal year that ended on Sept. 30, 2018, the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services confirmed a credible fear of persecution 74,677 times, according to an agency official. Changes in the screening process could drastically lower those findings by requiring more proof from asylum seekers that they would be persecuted in their home countries. Screeners could also try to verify migrant claims by using State Department assessments of the threats that exist in those countries. Immigrant rights advocates have feared for months that the administration would try to change the standards by which asylum seekers are judged in an effort to prevent more of them from coming into the United States. The administration official blamed the delay in that effort on “deep state” bureaucrats at the Department of Homeland Security and even the president’s own political appointees in the department, whom the official described as lacking the management skills to push Mr. Trump’s agenda. The official declined to name specific administration officials who have failed. But he made thinly veiled references to two top officials at the Department of Homeland Security: John Mitnick, the department’s general counsel, and L. Francis Cissna, the head of United States Citizenship and Immigration Services. He said there was “clearly a track record” in which the president’s policies have not been advanced. In his remarks on Tuesday, Mr. Trump falsely said that President Barack Obama had embraced the same policy of routinely separating migrant children from their parents at the border. “President Obama had child separation,” Mr. Trump said during brief remarks in the Oval Office, where he was meeting with President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi of Egypt. “I’m the one that stopped it.” Under Mr. Obama and President George W. Bush, immigration officials sometimes separated families when they had reason to question parentage or when there was evidence of child abuse. The Trump administration instituted a policy in which all families who crossed the border illegally were separated in order to allow the parents to be prosecuted under the administration’s “zero tolerance” policy. More than 2,700 children were separated from their parents at the border before Mr. Trump ended the policy in June 2018. [Fact check: Family separation at the border] The president’s comments come after he shook up the senior ranks of the Department of Homeland Security, forcing the resignation of the secretary, Kirstjen Nielsen, and top immigration officials in a move that signaled a pending shift in immigration policies. Also on Tuesday, the acting deputy secretary of homeland security, Claire Grady, who was next in line by law to become the acting secretary, submitted her resignation, according to a Twitter post by Ms. Nielsen. Ms. Grady’s resignation paves the way for Kevin McAleenan, the commissioner of Customs and Border Protection, to take the role. Customs and Border Protection officials this week underscored Mr. Trump’s concern about illegal immigration by announcing that more than 103,000 migrants crossed the southwestern border in March without authorization, an increase from the more than 76,000 migrants who crossed in February. “Just last month, we saw record numbers of family units and unaccompanied juvenile apprehensions in February, and unfortunately, March apprehension numbers are again record-setting and cause dire concerns for us,” said Brian Hastings, the chief of law enforcement operations for the Border Patrol. Most of the migrants — 92,000 of the 103,000 — were apprehended by Border Patrol agents, meaning they crossed in between the ports of entry. More than 53,000 of those migrants were members of a family, Mr. Hastings said, and most of those families were from Honduras, Guatemala or El Salvador. In the first half of fiscal year 2019, Border Patrol agents apprehended more than 385,000 migrants on the border, more than double those apprehended during the same time last year. Mr. Hastings said the Border Patrol can generally maintain 4,500 people in its custody. But it recently counted 13,000 migrants in its facilities, and he said the overflow has led to the release of families into cities along the border. “Backups have resulted in individuals spending additional time in Border Patrol custody in increasingly crowded conditions,” Mr. Hastings said. On Tuesday, White House officials announced that the president would appeal a judge’s ruling that blocked the administration’s “Migrant Protection Protocols,” which require some asylum seekers to remain in Mexico while they wait for their court cases. Mr. Trump has recently commended Mexico for doing more to stem migration to the border, but the officials said they have not seen any effect on the number of people crossing it. “The numbers aren’t declining; in fact, we’re still seeing 3,000 apprehensions per day,” Mr. Hastings said. Officials also revealed that among the tens of thousands of family members approaching the border each month, just 3,100 people who said they were traveling with relatives were found to have a fraudulent claim. Those people either said they had a child when the individual was over 18 or the group’s members were not really related. Eileen Sullivan contributed reporting.

Supported by By Michael D. Shear and Zolan Kanno-Youngs WASHINGTON — The Trump administration plans to aggressively push for tougher screening of asylum seekers that will make it vastly more difficult for migrants fleeing persecution in their home countries to win protection in the United States, a senior administration official told reporters on Tuesday. The official said that President Trump ordered a shake-up of his top immigration officials in recent days because they were moving too slowly, or even actively obstructing, the president’s desire to confront the surge of migrants at the southwestern border. The asylum changes are among many policies the president wants to put into effect with a new team in place, the official said. Mr. Trump denied on Tuesday that one of those changes would be to restart his policy of separating migrant families at the border, though he said that the act of taking children from their parents — which drew global condemnation before he abandoned it last summer — was effective. “Now I’ll tell you something, once you don’t have it, that’s why you see many more people coming,” Mr. Trump said. “They are coming like it’s a picnic, because, ‘Let’s go to Disneyland.’” The administration official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity even as Mr. Trump was making his remarks, said a modified version of family separation, in which parents are given a choice of whether to be separated or to accept indefinite detention alongside their children, continues to be under consideration. But the so-called binary choice proposal is “not ripe for White House consideration” right now, he insisted, because the government does not currently have the detention space to hold families if the policy were put in place. The asylum changes being envisioned could drastically alter the role that the United States plays as a refuge for people fleeing poverty, violence and war. American and international laws require it to allow migrants to request asylum once they come to the country. But the official said that an initial assessment of the basis for a request for asylum — known as a “credible fear” screening — too often accepts the claim that the migrant was persecuted. The official also said that many more asylum seekers should be rejected during that first step. Out of 97,728 completed interviews with migrants in the fiscal year that ended on Sept. 30, 2018, the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services confirmed a credible fear of persecution 74,677 times, according to an agency official. Changes in the screening process could drastically lower those findings by requiring more proof from asylum seekers that they would be persecuted in their home countries. Screeners could also try to verify migrant claims by using State Department assessments of the threats that exist in those countries. Immigrant rights advocates have feared for months that the administration would try to change the standards by which asylum seekers are judged in an effort to prevent more of them from coming into the United States. The administration official blamed the delay in that effort on “deep state” bureaucrats at the Department of Homeland Security and even the president’s own political appointees in the department, whom the official described as lacking the management skills to push Mr. Trump’s agenda. The official declined to name specific administration officials who have failed. But he made thinly veiled references to two top officials at the Department of Homeland Security: John Mitnick, the department’s general counsel, and L. Francis Cissna, the head of United States Citizenship and Immigration Services. He said there was “clearly a track record” in which the president’s policies have not been advanced. In his remarks on Tuesday, Mr. Trump falsely said that President Barack Obama had embraced the same policy of routinely separating migrant children from their parents at the border. “President Obama had child separation,” Mr. Trump said during brief remarks in the Oval Office, where he was meeting with President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi of Egypt. “I’m the one that stopped it.” Under Mr. Obama and President George W. Bush, immigration officials sometimes separated families when they had reason to question parentage or when there was evidence of child abuse. The Trump administration instituted a policy in which all families who crossed the border illegally were separated in order to allow the parents to be prosecuted under the administration’s “zero tolerance” policy. More than 2,700 children were separated from their parents at the border before Mr. Trump ended the policy in June 2018. [Fact check: Family separation at the border] The president’s comments come after he shook up the senior ranks of the Department of Homeland Security, forcing the resignation of the secretary, Kirstjen Nielsen, and top immigration officials in a move that signaled a pending shift in immigration policies. Also on Tuesday, the acting deputy secretary of homeland security, Claire Grady, who was next in line by law to become the acting secretary, submitted her resignation, according to a Twitter post by Ms. Nielsen. Ms. Grady’s resignation paves the way for Kevin McAleenan, the commissioner of Customs and Border Protection, to take the role. Customs and Border Protection officials this week underscored Mr. Trump’s concern about illegal immigration by announcing that more than 103,000 migrants crossed the southwestern border in March without authorization, an increase from the more than 76,000 migrants who crossed in February. “Just last month, we saw record numbers of family units and unaccompanied juvenile apprehensions in February, and unfortunately, March apprehension numbers are again record-setting and cause dire concerns for us,” said Brian Hastings, the chief of law enforcement operations for the Border Patrol. Most of the migrants — 92,000 of the 103,000 — were apprehended by Border Patrol agents, meaning they crossed in between the ports of entry. More than 53,000 of those migrants were members of a family, Mr. Hastings said, and most of those families were from Honduras, Guatemala or El Salvador. In the first half of fiscal year 2019, Border Patrol agents apprehended more than 385,000 migrants on the border, more than double those apprehended during the same time last year. Mr. Hastings said the Border Patrol can generally maintain 4,500 people in its custody. But it recently counted 13,000 migrants in its facilities, and he said the overflow has led to the release of families into cities along the border. “Backups have resulted in individuals spending additional time in Border Patrol custody in increasingly crowded conditions,” Mr. Hastings said. On Tuesday, White House officials announced that the president would appeal a judge’s ruling that blocked the administration’s “Migrant Protection Protocols,” which require some asylum seekers to remain in Mexico while they wait for their court cases. Mr. Trump has recently commended Mexico for doing more to stem migration to the border, but the officials said they have not seen any effect on the number of people crossing it. “The numbers aren’t declining; in fact, we’re still seeing 3,000 apprehensions per day,” Mr. Hastings said. Officials also revealed that among the tens of thousands of family members approaching the border each month, just 3,100 people who said they were traveling with relatives were found to have a fraudulent claim. Those people either said they had a child when the individual was over 18 or the group’s members were not really related. Eileen Sullivan contributed reporting.Supported by By Shane Goldmacher President Trump raised more than $30 million for his re-election in the first three months of 2019 and now sits atop more than $40 million, his campaign said on Sunday. Mr. Trump’s campaign — which has set an ambitious $1 billion goal for the 2020 race — launched an aggressive fund-raising push earlier than his predecessors. The campaign has already installed a headquarters in Northern Virginia and is combining a push for both big donations and small contributions online. Nearly 99 percent of the donations in the first quarter were for $200 or less, according to the campaign, with an average contribution of just over $34. Some Democrats are concerned that Mr. Trump will spend the next year amassing a war chest as Democrats fight among themselves in a primary now featuring nearly 20 candidates. Mr. Trump’s $30 million haul is about the size of what Senators Bernie Sanders and Kamala Harris — the top two Democratic fund-raisers so far in the 2020 field — raised combined in the first quarter. As the Democrats begin what could be a fractious nominating contest, Mr. Trump enjoys both the traditional advantages of incumbency and almost total control of the Republican Party apparatus. His campaign and the national party have a combined $82 million cash on hand. Mr. Trump launched his re-election drive almost as soon as he was inaugurated in 2017, and the early start has helped deliver a financial edge. Barack Obama’s 2012 campaign, the last time a president sought re-election, held less than $2 million in the bank at this point in the election cycle. Mr. Trump has spent heavily to advertise on platforms like Facebook and Google to lure in new small contributors. The Trump campaign and a joint fund-raising committee with the Republican National Committee have spent nearly $11 million on Facebook ads alone since May 2018, according to the company’s ad database, running more than 190,000 different advertisements. In addition to direct donations to the campaign, Mr. Trump is raising money for the R.N.C., which brought in another $45.8 million in the first quarter. The full financial disclosures for the Trump campaign, and for all the Democrats running for president in 2020, are due to the Federal Election Commission on Monday.

Supported by By Shane Goldmacher President Trump raised more than $30 million for his re-election in the first three months of 2019 and now sits atop more than $40 million, his campaign said on Sunday. Mr. Trump’s campaign — which has set an ambitious $1 billion goal for the 2020 race — launched an aggressive fund-raising push earlier than his predecessors. The campaign has already installed a headquarters in Northern Virginia and is combining a push for both big donations and small contributions online. Nearly 99 percent of the donations in the first quarter were for $200 or less, according to the campaign, with an average contribution of just over $34. Some Democrats are concerned that Mr. Trump will spend the next year amassing a war chest as Democrats fight among themselves in a primary now featuring nearly 20 candidates. Mr. Trump’s $30 million haul is about the size of what Senators Bernie Sanders and Kamala Harris — the top two Democratic fund-raisers so far in the 2020 field — raised combined in the first quarter. As the Democrats begin what could be a fractious nominating contest, Mr. Trump enjoys both the traditional advantages of incumbency and almost total control of the Republican Party apparatus. His campaign and the national party have a combined $82 million cash on hand. Mr. Trump launched his re-election drive almost as soon as he was inaugurated in 2017, and the early start has helped deliver a financial edge. Barack Obama’s 2012 campaign, the last time a president sought re-election, held less than $2 million in the bank at this point in the election cycle. Mr. Trump has spent heavily to advertise on platforms like Facebook and Google to lure in new small contributors. The Trump campaign and a joint fund-raising committee with the Republican National Committee have spent nearly $11 million on Facebook ads alone since May 2018, according to the company’s ad database, running more than 190,000 different advertisements. In addition to direct donations to the campaign, Mr. Trump is raising money for the R.N.C., which brought in another $45.8 million in the first quarter. The full financial disclosures for the Trump campaign, and for all the Democrats running for president in 2020, are due to the Federal Election Commission on Monday.Supported by The invasion of hucksters has reached the Federal Reserve. By Paul Krugman Opinion Columnist It’s no secret that Donald Trump has appointed a lot of partisan, unqualified hacks to key policy positions. A few months ago my colleague Gail Collins asked readers to help her select Trump’s worst cabinet member. It was a hard choice, because there were so many qualified applicants. The winner, by the way, was Wilbur Ross, the commerce secretary. That looks like an even better call now: Ross’s department has reportedly prepared a report declaring that imports of European cars threaten U.S. national security. This is both ludicrous and dangerous. It gives Trump the right to start a new phase in his trade war that would inflict severe economic damage while alienating our allies — and, as a result, undermine national security. Until recently, however, one agency had seemed immune to the continuing hack invasion: the Federal Reserve, the single institution most crucial to economic policymaking. Trump’s Fed nominees, have, by and large, been sensible, respected economists. But that all changed last week, when Trump said he planned to nominate Stephen Moore for the Fed’s Board of Governors. Moore is manifestly, flamboyantly unqualified for the position. But there’s a story here that goes deeper than Moore, or even Trump; it’s about the whole G.O.P.’s preference for hucksters over experts, even partisan experts. About Moore: It goes almost without saying that he has been wrong about everything. I don’t mean the occasional bad call, which all of us make. I mean a track record that includes predicting that George W. Bush’s policies would produce a magnificent boom, Barack Obama’s policies would lead to runaway inflation, tax cuts in Kansas would produce a “near immediate” boost to the state’s economy, and much more. And, of course, never an acknowledgment of error or reflection on why he got it wrong. [For an even deeper look at what’s on Paul Krugman’s mind, sign up for his weekly newsletter.] Beyond that, Moore has a problem with facts. After printing a Moore op-ed in which all the key numbers were wrong, one editor vowed never to publish the man’s work again. And a blizzard of factual errors is standard practice in his writing and speaking. It’s actually hard to find cases where Moore got a fact right. Yet Moore isn’t some random guy who caught Trump’s eye. He has long been a prominent figure in the conservative movement: a writer for the Wall Street Journal editorial page, chief economist of the Heritage Foundation, a fixture on the right-wing lecture circuit. Why? You might say that the G.O.P. values partisan loyalty above professional competence. But that’s only a partial explanation, because there are plenty of conservative economists with solid professional credentials — and some of them are pretty naked in their partisanship, too. Thus, a who’s who of well-known conservative economists rushed to endorse the Trump administration’s outlandish claims about the benefits from its tax cut, claims they knew full well were unreasonable. Nor has their partisanship been restrained and polite. Many of us are still mourning the death of Alan Krueger, the Princeton economist best known for research — since vindicated by many other studies — showing that increases in the minimum wage don’t usually seem to reduce employment. Well, the Nobel-winning conservative economist James Buchanan denounced those pursuing that line of research as “a bevy of camp-following whores.” So conservatives could, if they wanted, turn for advice to highly partisan economists with at least some idea of what they’re doing. Yet these economists, despite what often seem like pathetic attempts to curry favor with politicians, are routinely passed over for key positions, which go to almost surreally unqualified figures like Moore or Larry Kudlow, the Trump administration’s chief economist. Many people have described the Trump administration as a kakistocracy — rule by the worst — which it is. But it’s also a hackistocracy — rule by the ignorant and incompetent. And in this Trump is just following standard G.O.P. practice. Why do hacks rule on the right? It may simply be that a party of apparatchiks feels uncomfortable with people who have any real expertise or independent reputation, no matter how loyal they may seem. After all, you never know when they might take a stand on principle. In any case, there will eventually be a price to pay. True, there is, wrote Adam Smith, “a great deal of ruin in a nation.” America isn’t just an immensely powerful, wealthy, technologically advanced, peaceful country. We’re also a nation with a long tradition of dedicated public service. Even now — as I can attest from personal interactions — a great majority of those working for the Treasury Department, the State Department and so on are competent, hard-working people trying to do the best they can for their country. But as top jobs systematically go to hacks, there is an inevitable process of corrosion. We’re already seeing a degradation of the way our government responds to things like natural disasters. Well, there will be more and bigger disasters ahead. And the people in charge of dealing with those disasters will be the worst of the worst. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Paul Krugman has been an Opinion columnist since 2000 and is also a Distinguished Professor at the City University of New York Graduate Center. He won the 2008 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences for his work on international trade and economic geography.  @PaulKrugman 

Supported by The invasion of hucksters has reached the Federal Reserve. By Paul Krugman Opinion Columnist It’s no secret that Donald Trump has appointed a lot of partisan, unqualified hacks to key policy positions. A few months ago my colleague Gail Collins asked readers to help her select Trump’s worst cabinet member. It was a hard choice, because there were so many qualified applicants. The winner, by the way, was Wilbur Ross, the commerce secretary. That looks like an even better call now: Ross’s department has reportedly prepared a report declaring that imports of European cars threaten U.S. national security. This is both ludicrous and dangerous. It gives Trump the right to start a new phase in his trade war that would inflict severe economic damage while alienating our allies — and, as a result, undermine national security. Until recently, however, one agency had seemed immune to the continuing hack invasion: the Federal Reserve, the single institution most crucial to economic policymaking. Trump’s Fed nominees, have, by and large, been sensible, respected economists. But that all changed last week, when Trump said he planned to nominate Stephen Moore for the Fed’s Board of Governors. Moore is manifestly, flamboyantly unqualified for the position. But there’s a story here that goes deeper than Moore, or even Trump; it’s about the whole G.O.P.’s preference for hucksters over experts, even partisan experts. About Moore: It goes almost without saying that he has been wrong about everything. I don’t mean the occasional bad call, which all of us make. I mean a track record that includes predicting that George W. Bush’s policies would produce a magnificent boom, Barack Obama’s policies would lead to runaway inflation, tax cuts in Kansas would produce a “near immediate” boost to the state’s economy, and much more. And, of course, never an acknowledgment of error or reflection on why he got it wrong. [For an even deeper look at what’s on Paul Krugman’s mind, sign up for his weekly newsletter.] Beyond that, Moore has a problem with facts. After printing a Moore op-ed in which all the key numbers were wrong, one editor vowed never to publish the man’s work again. And a blizzard of factual errors is standard practice in his writing and speaking. It’s actually hard to find cases where Moore got a fact right. Yet Moore isn’t some random guy who caught Trump’s eye. He has long been a prominent figure in the conservative movement: a writer for the Wall Street Journal editorial page, chief economist of the Heritage Foundation, a fixture on the right-wing lecture circuit. Why? You might say that the G.O.P. values partisan loyalty above professional competence. But that’s only a partial explanation, because there are plenty of conservative economists with solid professional credentials — and some of them are pretty naked in their partisanship, too. Thus, a who’s who of well-known conservative economists rushed to endorse the Trump administration’s outlandish claims about the benefits from its tax cut, claims they knew full well were unreasonable. Nor has their partisanship been restrained and polite. Many of us are still mourning the death of Alan Krueger, the Princeton economist best known for research — since vindicated by many other studies — showing that increases in the minimum wage don’t usually seem to reduce employment. Well, the Nobel-winning conservative economist James Buchanan denounced those pursuing that line of research as “a bevy of camp-following whores.” So conservatives could, if they wanted, turn for advice to highly partisan economists with at least some idea of what they’re doing. Yet these economists, despite what often seem like pathetic attempts to curry favor with politicians, are routinely passed over for key positions, which go to almost surreally unqualified figures like Moore or Larry Kudlow, the Trump administration’s chief economist. Many people have described the Trump administration as a kakistocracy — rule by the worst — which it is. But it’s also a hackistocracy — rule by the ignorant and incompetent. And in this Trump is just following standard G.O.P. practice. Why do hacks rule on the right? It may simply be that a party of apparatchiks feels uncomfortable with people who have any real expertise or independent reputation, no matter how loyal they may seem. After all, you never know when they might take a stand on principle. In any case, there will eventually be a price to pay. True, there is, wrote Adam Smith, “a great deal of ruin in a nation.” America isn’t just an immensely powerful, wealthy, technologically advanced, peaceful country. We’re also a nation with a long tradition of dedicated public service. Even now — as I can attest from personal interactions — a great majority of those working for the Treasury Department, the State Department and so on are competent, hard-working people trying to do the best they can for their country. But as top jobs systematically go to hacks, there is an inevitable process of corrosion. We’re already seeing a degradation of the way our government responds to things like natural disasters. Well, there will be more and bigger disasters ahead. And the people in charge of dealing with those disasters will be the worst of the worst. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Paul Krugman has been an Opinion columnist since 2000 and is also a Distinguished Professor at the City University of New York Graduate Center. He won the 2008 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences for his work on international trade and economic geography.  @PaulKrugman Supported by By Maggie Haberman and Nicholas Fandos President Trump earlier this year asked Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, to prioritize a confirmation vote for his nominee to be the chief counsel of the Internal Revenue Service, indicating that it was a higher priority than voting on the nomination of William P. Barr as attorney general, a person familiar with the conversation said. White House aides insisted for months that the confirmation of the nominee, Michael J. Desmond, a tax lawyer from Santa Barbara, Calif., was a top priority after passage of the tax bill in 2017. But the request by Mr. Trump, made to Mr. McConnell on Feb. 5, raised questions about whether the president had other motivations. For months, the president has seethed over vows by congressional Democrats that they would move to obtain his tax returns from the I.R.S. And this week, the House Ways and Means Committee chairman, Representative Richard E. Neal, Democrat of Massachusetts, formally asked the I.R.S. for six years of the returns, using an obscure provision in the tax code to do so. On Thursday, asked if he would direct the I.R.S. not to disclose his tax returns, Mr. Trump said Democrats would have to talk to his lawyers. “They’ll speak to my lawyers,” Mr. Trump said during remarks at the Oval Office. “They’ll speak to the attorney general.” In July, when Mr. Desmond was first being considered by the Senate Finance Committee, Bloomberg reported that he had briefly advised the Trump Organization on tax issues before Mr. Trump took office. James Wilkinson, a spokesman for Mr. Desmond, told Bloomberg that Mr. Desmond had helped with “a discrete reporting matter for a subsidiary company that was resolved with no tax impact.” In private practice, Mr. Desmond worked for a time alongside William Nelson and Sheri Dillon, who currently serve as tax counsels to the Trump Organization. The I.R.S. chief counsel advises the agency director on “all matters pertaining to the interpretation, administration and enforcement of the Internal Revenue Code, as well as all other legal matters,” according to a description on the agency’s website. The chief counsel reports jointly to the director of the I.R.S. and the Treasury Department’s general counsel. The Senate did not immediately act on Mr. Trump’s request. It first moved ahead with Mr. Barr’s nomination. Mr. Desmond was confirmed two weeks later, on Feb. 27. Mr. Trump and his team have been warily anticipating the probing demands of House investigators since Democrats won control in November. The message to Mr. McConnell came around the time that Mr. Trump, eyeing a torrent of new House investigations led by Democrats, told reporters that he was unfairly under fire. He appeared to take particular umbrage at an inquiry by the House Intelligence Committee focused on potential ties to Russia, as well as accusations of potential money laundering by Mr. Trump’s businesses and his associates. “It’s called presidential harassment,” he said. “And it’s unfortunate. And it really does hurt our country.” The president directly relayed his concern about the prompt confirmation of Mr. Desmond to Mr. McConnell around the time that Mr. Trump was preparing to deliver his State of the Union address, the person said. Hogan Gidley, a White House deputy press secretary, declined to discuss the specifics of the conversation between Mr. Trump and Mr. McConnell. “Democrats have obstructed and delayed a record number of President Trump’s well-qualified nominees, so it shouldn’t be surprising to anyone that he regularly communicates with Majority Leader McConnell about how to increase confirmations in the face of Democrats’ ridiculous behavior,” Mr. Gidley said. David Popp, a spokesman for Mr. McConnell, also declined to comment. But according to a person familiar with what took place, Mr. Trump told Mr. McConnell that Mr. Desmond was growing frustrated with the holdup and was contemplating withdrawing from the process. Democrats in the House are relying on a little-known provision of the federal tax code to try to view Mr. Trump’s personal and business tax returns. The provision, added in the 1920s, gives the chairmen of Congress’s tax-writing committees — including the Democrat-led Ways and Means Committee in the House — authorities to request information on any filer to review privately. The text of the law does not give the Trump administration clear grounds to deny a request from Mr. Neal, saying only that when requested, the Treasury secretary “shall” furnish the information. But Treasury Department officials are making preparations to challenge any requests coming from Mr. Neal. They would most likely argue that his action is politically motivated, not related to real matters of policy and therefore illegitimate. Mr. Trump, asked on Wednesday about the request by reporters during an Oval Office event, maintained that he was still being audited, a claim he has made for years to defend not releasing his tax returns, as previous presidents have done.

Supported by By Maggie Haberman and Nicholas Fandos President Trump earlier this year asked Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, to prioritize a confirmation vote for his nominee to be the chief counsel of the Internal Revenue Service, indicating that it was a higher priority than voting on the nomination of William P. Barr as attorney general, a person familiar with the conversation said. White House aides insisted for months that the confirmation of the nominee, Michael J. Desmond, a tax lawyer from Santa Barbara, Calif., was a top priority after passage of the tax bill in 2017. But the request by Mr. Trump, made to Mr. McConnell on Feb. 5, raised questions about whether the president had other motivations. For months, the president has seethed over vows by congressional Democrats that they would move to obtain his tax returns from the I.R.S. And this week, the House Ways and Means Committee chairman, Representative Richard E. Neal, Democrat of Massachusetts, formally asked the I.R.S. for six years of the returns, using an obscure provision in the tax code to do so. On Thursday, asked if he would direct the I.R.S. not to disclose his tax returns, Mr. Trump said Democrats would have to talk to his lawyers. “They’ll speak to my lawyers,” Mr. Trump said during remarks at the Oval Office. “They’ll speak to the attorney general.” In July, when Mr. Desmond was first being considered by the Senate Finance Committee, Bloomberg reported that he had briefly advised the Trump Organization on tax issues before Mr. Trump took office. James Wilkinson, a spokesman for Mr. Desmond, told Bloomberg that Mr. Desmond had helped with “a discrete reporting matter for a subsidiary company that was resolved with no tax impact.” In private practice, Mr. Desmond worked for a time alongside William Nelson and Sheri Dillon, who currently serve as tax counsels to the Trump Organization. The I.R.S. chief counsel advises the agency director on “all matters pertaining to the interpretation, administration and enforcement of the Internal Revenue Code, as well as all other legal matters,” according to a description on the agency’s website. The chief counsel reports jointly to the director of the I.R.S. and the Treasury Department’s general counsel. The Senate did not immediately act on Mr. Trump’s request. It first moved ahead with Mr. Barr’s nomination. Mr. Desmond was confirmed two weeks later, on Feb. 27. Mr. Trump and his team have been warily anticipating the probing demands of House investigators since Democrats won control in November. The message to Mr. McConnell came around the time that Mr. Trump, eyeing a torrent of new House investigations led by Democrats, told reporters that he was unfairly under fire. He appeared to take particular umbrage at an inquiry by the House Intelligence Committee focused on potential ties to Russia, as well as accusations of potential money laundering by Mr. Trump’s businesses and his associates. “It’s called presidential harassment,” he said. “And it’s unfortunate. And it really does hurt our country.” The president directly relayed his concern about the prompt confirmation of Mr. Desmond to Mr. McConnell around the time that Mr. Trump was preparing to deliver his State of the Union address, the person said. Hogan Gidley, a White House deputy press secretary, declined to discuss the specifics of the conversation between Mr. Trump and Mr. McConnell. “Democrats have obstructed and delayed a record number of President Trump’s well-qualified nominees, so it shouldn’t be surprising to anyone that he regularly communicates with Majority Leader McConnell about how to increase confirmations in the face of Democrats’ ridiculous behavior,” Mr. Gidley said. David Popp, a spokesman for Mr. McConnell, also declined to comment. But according to a person familiar with what took place, Mr. Trump told Mr. McConnell that Mr. Desmond was growing frustrated with the holdup and was contemplating withdrawing from the process. Democrats in the House are relying on a little-known provision of the federal tax code to try to view Mr. Trump’s personal and business tax returns. The provision, added in the 1920s, gives the chairmen of Congress’s tax-writing committees — including the Democrat-led Ways and Means Committee in the House — authorities to request information on any filer to review privately. The text of the law does not give the Trump administration clear grounds to deny a request from Mr. Neal, saying only that when requested, the Treasury secretary “shall” furnish the information. But Treasury Department officials are making preparations to challenge any requests coming from Mr. Neal. They would most likely argue that his action is politically motivated, not related to real matters of policy and therefore illegitimate. Mr. Trump, asked on Wednesday about the request by reporters during an Oval Office event, maintained that he was still being audited, a claim he has made for years to defend not releasing his tax returns, as previous presidents have done.Supported by Books of The Times By Dwight Garner When you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission. On the back cover of his new book, “The Threat: How the F.B.I. Protects America in the Age of Terror and Trump,” Andrew G. McCabe looks preposterously fit (he competes in triathlons). His hands are at his hips, gunslinger style. It’s as if he were a kind High Plains sheriff who had stumbled upon an intolerable rodeo of villainy. McCabe’s prose is lean, too. (Not that he wrote this book. In his acknowledgments, he thanks “a great writing and editing team.”) The first sentence demands to be read in the voice of Jack Webb from “Dragnet”: “Between the world of chaos and the world of order stands the rule of law.” McCabe is, of course, the former deputy director of the F.B.I. who was fired last March, just 26 hours before his scheduled retirement. He was briefly the F.B.I.’s acting director, after the dismissal of James B. Comey. The president hooted on Twitter: “Andrew McCabe FIRED, a great day for the hard working men and women of the F.B.I. — A great day for Democracy.” This lawman, a registered Republican for the entirety of his adult life, may have been driven out of Dodge. But he has dusted off his white hat and returned with a memoir that’s better than any book typed this quickly has a right to be. “The Threat” is a concise yet substantive account of how the F.B.I. works, at a moment when its procedures and impartiality are under attack. It’s an unambiguous indictment of Trump’s moral behavior. “Let me state the proposition openly,” McCabe writes. “The work of the F.B.I. is being undermined by the current president.” It’s a rapid-fire G-man memoir, moving from the author’s training in Quantico (shades of “The Silence of the Lambs”) through his experiences chasing the Russian mob, the Boston Marathon bombers and others. The book is patriotic and oddly stirring. It has moments of opacity, where you feel he is holding back at crucial moments, but it is filled with disturbingly piquant details. McCabe made headlines after a recent “60 Minutes” interview, during which he reported that top Justice Department officials, disquieted by Trump’s firing of Comey, discussed trying to encourage cabinet members to invoke the 25th Amendment to remove Trump from office. He also confirmed a New York Times report that the deputy attorney general, Rod J. Rosenstein, offered to wear a wire during his meetings with Trump. These stories, frustratingly, were in the TV interview but are not in this book. But there are many other gleanings. McCabe’s accounts of his baffled interactions with Jeff Sessions, the former attorney general, would be high comedy if they were not so dire. They are a highlight, or a lowlight, of this book. We see a Sessions who is openly racist. “Back in the old days,” he says to the author about the F.B.I., “you all only hired Irishmen. They were drunks, but they could be trusted.” Sessions seemed not to read his daily briefings. He had “trouble focusing” and “seemed to lack basic knowledge about the jurisdictions of various arms of federal law enforcement.” Sessions concentrated almost solely on the immigration aspect of any issue, McCabe writes, even when there was no immigration aspect. Similarly, “Sessions spent a lot of time yelling at us about the death penalty, despite the fact that the F.B.I. plays no role of any kind in whether to seek the death penalty.” The portrait of Sessions is of a man for whom merely ordering lunch seems to be above the timberline of his intellect and curiosity. A recent cartoon in The New Yorker depicted a person feverishly covering two walls with a link chart, with names and Scotch tape and Magic Marker, of the Trump administration’s alleged misdeeds. Another person stands watching from a doorway. The caption is: “Hon, Mueller’s got this. Come to bed.” It turns out that Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, has strong opinions about charts. McCabe worked under him at the bureau. “He detested diagonal lines,” McCabe writes. “Some colors he liked. Some he didn’t.” McCabe explains the reasons for these preferences. He writes about Mueller: “Sometimes he would take out the chart and suddenly you would see his face fall, as if to say the kind of thing that he would rarely say: Who made this piece of crap?” Mueller is, in this book, the Mueller we have come to know: punctual, determined, the antithesis of casual, with a special loathing for people who speak when they don’t know what they are talking about. “Ball-busting is his way of expressing affection,” McCabe writes. “If he said, Where does a person even find a tie like that? I knew things were fine: He never went out of his way to insult anyone he didn’t actually like.” McCabe’s memoir joins a roster of recent and alarming books by high-ranking members of the United States’ justice and intelligence communities, each pushing back sharply against the president’s war on facts and competence. These books include Comey’s “A Higher Loyalty” as well as “The Assault on Intelligence,” by Michael V. Hayden, the former director of the National Security Agency, and “Facts and Fears,” by James R. Clapper Jr., the former director of national intelligence, written with Trey Brown. Each is its own Paul Revere ride of warning. Each is a reminder that we will be reading about Trump and his administration for the rest of our lives, for the exact opposite reason that we will also be reading about Lincoln and his for the rest of our lives. There’s much more in McCabe’s book. He’s good on things like what it’s like to take a polygraph test, and the fastest way to take off a seatbelt. He wades back through the big muddy of the Benghazi hearings. He writes of his fears about the increasing use of encryption. He spends a good deal of time talking about Hillary Clinton and her email server. He argues that Comey, whom he admires, made crucial mistakes in how he handled the matter. “As a matter of policy, the F.B.I. does everything possible not to influence elections. In 2016, it seems we did.” He recounts the attacks on his credibility, by Trump and others, after his wife, Jill, ran for Virginia’s State Senate as a Democrat in 2015. He hurt his own credibility, according to the F.B.I. inspector general, by making false statements about his contacts with the media. The Trump-bashing texts between Lisa Page and Peter Strzok, his F.B.I. subordinates, did something worse: They cast doubts about the impartiality of the agency. McCabe rushes past this material too swiftly. Yet if McCabe has made mistakes, his basic decency shines through in this memoir. He adds to our understanding of how deeply Trump remains under Vladimir Putin’s sway. After a North Korean ballistic missile test, Trump told an F.B.I. briefer that reports of the test were a hoax. McCabe writes, incredulously: “He said he knew this because Vladimir Putin had told him so.” About Trump, the author asks, “What more could a person do to erode the credibility of the presidency?” He watches this moral limbo dancer go lower and lower. Yet he sees the president as a symptom as much as a disease. “When is the right time,” he asks, “to give up on people’s general ability to understand any slightly complicated statement that they don’t agree with?” Follow Dwight Garner on Twitter: @DwightGarner. The ThreatHow the FBI Protects America in the Age of Terror and TrumpBy Andrew G. McCabe274 pages. St. Martin’s Press. $29.99.

Supported by Books of The Times By Dwight Garner When you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission. On the back cover of his new book, “The Threat: How the F.B.I. Protects America in the Age of Terror and Trump,” Andrew G. McCabe looks preposterously fit (he competes in triathlons). His hands are at his hips, gunslinger style. It’s as if he were a kind High Plains sheriff who had stumbled upon an intolerable rodeo of villainy. McCabe’s prose is lean, too. (Not that he wrote this book. In his acknowledgments, he thanks “a great writing and editing team.”) The first sentence demands to be read in the voice of Jack Webb from “Dragnet”: “Between the world of chaos and the world of order stands the rule of law.” McCabe is, of course, the former deputy director of the F.B.I. who was fired last March, just 26 hours before his scheduled retirement. He was briefly the F.B.I.’s acting director, after the dismissal of James B. Comey. The president hooted on Twitter: “Andrew McCabe FIRED, a great day for the hard working men and women of the F.B.I. — A great day for Democracy.” This lawman, a registered Republican for the entirety of his adult life, may have been driven out of Dodge. But he has dusted off his white hat and returned with a memoir that’s better than any book typed this quickly has a right to be. “The Threat” is a concise yet substantive account of how the F.B.I. works, at a moment when its procedures and impartiality are under attack. It’s an unambiguous indictment of Trump’s moral behavior. “Let me state the proposition openly,” McCabe writes. “The work of the F.B.I. is being undermined by the current president.” It’s a rapid-fire G-man memoir, moving from the author’s training in Quantico (shades of “The Silence of the Lambs”) through his experiences chasing the Russian mob, the Boston Marathon bombers and others. The book is patriotic and oddly stirring. It has moments of opacity, where you feel he is holding back at crucial moments, but it is filled with disturbingly piquant details. McCabe made headlines after a recent “60 Minutes” interview, during which he reported that top Justice Department officials, disquieted by Trump’s firing of Comey, discussed trying to encourage cabinet members to invoke the 25th Amendment to remove Trump from office. He also confirmed a New York Times report that the deputy attorney general, Rod J. Rosenstein, offered to wear a wire during his meetings with Trump. These stories, frustratingly, were in the TV interview but are not in this book. But there are many other gleanings. McCabe’s accounts of his baffled interactions with Jeff Sessions, the former attorney general, would be high comedy if they were not so dire. They are a highlight, or a lowlight, of this book. We see a Sessions who is openly racist. “Back in the old days,” he says to the author about the F.B.I., “you all only hired Irishmen. They were drunks, but they could be trusted.” Sessions seemed not to read his daily briefings. He had “trouble focusing” and “seemed to lack basic knowledge about the jurisdictions of various arms of federal law enforcement.” Sessions concentrated almost solely on the immigration aspect of any issue, McCabe writes, even when there was no immigration aspect. Similarly, “Sessions spent a lot of time yelling at us about the death penalty, despite the fact that the F.B.I. plays no role of any kind in whether to seek the death penalty.” The portrait of Sessions is of a man for whom merely ordering lunch seems to be above the timberline of his intellect and curiosity. A recent cartoon in The New Yorker depicted a person feverishly covering two walls with a link chart, with names and Scotch tape and Magic Marker, of the Trump administration’s alleged misdeeds. Another person stands watching from a doorway. The caption is: “Hon, Mueller’s got this. Come to bed.” It turns out that Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, has strong opinions about charts. McCabe worked under him at the bureau. “He detested diagonal lines,” McCabe writes. “Some colors he liked. Some he didn’t.” McCabe explains the reasons for these preferences. He writes about Mueller: “Sometimes he would take out the chart and suddenly you would see his face fall, as if to say the kind of thing that he would rarely say: Who made this piece of crap?” Mueller is, in this book, the Mueller we have come to know: punctual, determined, the antithesis of casual, with a special loathing for people who speak when they don’t know what they are talking about. “Ball-busting is his way of expressing affection,” McCabe writes. “If he said, Where does a person even find a tie like that? I knew things were fine: He never went out of his way to insult anyone he didn’t actually like.” McCabe’s memoir joins a roster of recent and alarming books by high-ranking members of the United States’ justice and intelligence communities, each pushing back sharply against the president’s war on facts and competence. These books include Comey’s “A Higher Loyalty” as well as “The Assault on Intelligence,” by Michael V. Hayden, the former director of the National Security Agency, and “Facts and Fears,” by James R. Clapper Jr., the former director of national intelligence, written with Trey Brown. Each is its own Paul Revere ride of warning. Each is a reminder that we will be reading about Trump and his administration for the rest of our lives, for the exact opposite reason that we will also be reading about Lincoln and his for the rest of our lives. There’s much more in McCabe’s book. He’s good on things like what it’s like to take a polygraph test, and the fastest way to take off a seatbelt. He wades back through the big muddy of the Benghazi hearings. He writes of his fears about the increasing use of encryption. He spends a good deal of time talking about Hillary Clinton and her email server. He argues that Comey, whom he admires, made crucial mistakes in how he handled the matter. “As a matter of policy, the F.B.I. does everything possible not to influence elections. In 2016, it seems we did.” He recounts the attacks on his credibility, by Trump and others, after his wife, Jill, ran for Virginia’s State Senate as a Democrat in 2015. He hurt his own credibility, according to the F.B.I. inspector general, by making false statements about his contacts with the media. The Trump-bashing texts between Lisa Page and Peter Strzok, his F.B.I. subordinates, did something worse: They cast doubts about the impartiality of the agency. McCabe rushes past this material too swiftly. Yet if McCabe has made mistakes, his basic decency shines through in this memoir. He adds to our understanding of how deeply Trump remains under Vladimir Putin’s sway. After a North Korean ballistic missile test, Trump told an F.B.I. briefer that reports of the test were a hoax. McCabe writes, incredulously: “He said he knew this because Vladimir Putin had told him so.” About Trump, the author asks, “What more could a person do to erode the credibility of the presidency?” He watches this moral limbo dancer go lower and lower. Yet he sees the president as a symptom as much as a disease. “When is the right time,” he asks, “to give up on people’s general ability to understand any slightly complicated statement that they don’t agree with?” Follow Dwight Garner on Twitter: @DwightGarner. The ThreatHow the FBI Protects America in the Age of Terror and TrumpBy Andrew G. McCabe274 pages. St. Martin’s Press. $29.99.Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — At the moment two years ago when Donald Trump learned a special counsel had been appointed to investigate his campaign and Russia, the president responded with profane fury — and something resembling panic. He feared his presidency, then only a few months old, was over. He berated aides for not protecting him. His cocky assurance was nowhere in sight. The Oval Office scene that day is vividly reconstructed in special counsel Robert Mueller's report, released Thursday. Mueller traces how, at perilous turns in the Russia episode, aides took the brunt of Trump's rage yet acted to save the president from himself — at times by letting his orders go unheeded and, at least in one instance, declining an entreaty to lie on his behalf. On May 17, 2017, Trump was in the Oval Office with his attorney general, Jeff Sessions, Sessions' chief of staff Jody Hunt and White House lawyer Don McGahn, conducting interviews for a new FBI director to replace James Comey, whom Trump had fired eight days earlier. Sessions left the room to take a call from his deputy, Rod Rosenstein, and returned to tell the president that Rosenstein had informed him of the special counsel appointment. "The President slumped back in his chair," Mueller wrote in his report, "and said, 'Oh my God. This is terrible. This is the end of my Presidency. I'm f---ed. This is the worst thing that ever happened to me.'" (Mueller quotes the full profanity.) "The President became angry and lambasted the Attorney General for his decision to recuse from the investigation, stating, 'How could you let this happen, Jeff?'" The reconstruction was based primarily on accounts from Hunt, with Sessions also supplying detail to Mueller's team. Sessions said Trump asked for his resignation but when he brought him a letter of resignation the next day, the president had changed his mind. Trump adviser Hope Hicks, describing the aftermath of that meeting to Mueller's team, said she had only seen Trump that upset once before — when the "Access Hollywood" tape came out in the campaign, revealing Trump's coarse comments about imposing himself on women. Sessions had stepped away from Russia matters because his work on the Trump campaign raised questions of conflict of interest. He withstood searing heat from Trump over that move and pressure, both public and private, to reverse his recusal until he was finally forced out late last year. Some other aides, too, refused to be compliant at major moments. The report states that in the days after Mueller's appointment, Trump opened an effort to discredit the special counsel, but ran into a wall from senior advisers such as McGahn, Steve Bannon and Reince Priebus, who was then chief of staff. "The President told senior advisors that the Special Counsel had conflicts of interest," the report says, "but they responded that those claims were 'ridiculous' and posed no obstacle to the Special Counsel's service." Then, a month into Mueller's work, Trump moved to get him fired. The report says that on June 17, 2017, Trump called McGahn at home and directed him to contact Rosenstein and tell him the special counsel must be removed. "You gotta do this," Trump told McGahn, according to the lawyer's recollection to Mueller's team. "McGahn was perturbed by the call and did not intend to act on the request," the report says. Trump pressed the point with a follow-up call. "Mueller has to go," McGahn recalled Trump saying. Then: "Call me back when you do it." McGahn never did it. And when early 2018 came around, Trump wanted McGahn to issue a denial that he'd ever been asked to press for Mueller's removal in the first place. He summoned the lawyer to the Oval Office. Again, no luck. "McGahn refused to back away from what he remembered happening," the report says, "and perceived the President to be testing his mettle."

Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — At the moment two years ago when Donald Trump learned a special counsel had been appointed to investigate his campaign and Russia, the president responded with profane fury — and something resembling panic. He feared his presidency, then only a few months old, was over. He berated aides for not protecting him. His cocky assurance was nowhere in sight. The Oval Office scene that day is vividly reconstructed in special counsel Robert Mueller's report, released Thursday. Mueller traces how, at perilous turns in the Russia episode, aides took the brunt of Trump's rage yet acted to save the president from himself — at times by letting his orders go unheeded and, at least in one instance, declining an entreaty to lie on his behalf. On May 17, 2017, Trump was in the Oval Office with his attorney general, Jeff Sessions, Sessions' chief of staff Jody Hunt and White House lawyer Don McGahn, conducting interviews for a new FBI director to replace James Comey, whom Trump had fired eight days earlier. Sessions left the room to take a call from his deputy, Rod Rosenstein, and returned to tell the president that Rosenstein had informed him of the special counsel appointment. "The President slumped back in his chair," Mueller wrote in his report, "and said, 'Oh my God. This is terrible. This is the end of my Presidency. I'm f---ed. This is the worst thing that ever happened to me.'" (Mueller quotes the full profanity.) "The President became angry and lambasted the Attorney General for his decision to recuse from the investigation, stating, 'How could you let this happen, Jeff?'" The reconstruction was based primarily on accounts from Hunt, with Sessions also supplying detail to Mueller's team. Sessions said Trump asked for his resignation but when he brought him a letter of resignation the next day, the president had changed his mind. Trump adviser Hope Hicks, describing the aftermath of that meeting to Mueller's team, said she had only seen Trump that upset once before — when the "Access Hollywood" tape came out in the campaign, revealing Trump's coarse comments about imposing himself on women. Sessions had stepped away from Russia matters because his work on the Trump campaign raised questions of conflict of interest. He withstood searing heat from Trump over that move and pressure, both public and private, to reverse his recusal until he was finally forced out late last year. Some other aides, too, refused to be compliant at major moments. The report states that in the days after Mueller's appointment, Trump opened an effort to discredit the special counsel, but ran into a wall from senior advisers such as McGahn, Steve Bannon and Reince Priebus, who was then chief of staff. "The President told senior advisors that the Special Counsel had conflicts of interest," the report says, "but they responded that those claims were 'ridiculous' and posed no obstacle to the Special Counsel's service." Then, a month into Mueller's work, Trump moved to get him fired. The report says that on June 17, 2017, Trump called McGahn at home and directed him to contact Rosenstein and tell him the special counsel must be removed. "You gotta do this," Trump told McGahn, according to the lawyer's recollection to Mueller's team. "McGahn was perturbed by the call and did not intend to act on the request," the report says. Trump pressed the point with a follow-up call. "Mueller has to go," McGahn recalled Trump saying. Then: "Call me back when you do it." McGahn never did it. And when early 2018 came around, Trump wanted McGahn to issue a denial that he'd ever been asked to press for Mueller's removal in the first place. He summoned the lawyer to the Oval Office. Again, no luck. "McGahn refused to back away from what he remembered happening," the report says, "and perceived the President to be testing his mettle."Supported by Amy Klobuchar, Sherrod Brown and how to be a middle-class fighter. By David Leonhardt Opinion Columnist A few weeks ago, the pollsters at Monmouth University asked Democrats across the country to choose between two different kinds of nominees. One was a candidate whom the voter agreed with on most issues but who might struggle to beat President Trump. The other was the reverse — a strong candidate with different views from those of the person being polled. It was a rout. About 56 percent preferred the more electable candidate, compared with 33 percent who picked the more ideologically in-sync candidate. The gap was even larger among women and liberal Democrats. Patrick Murray, who runs the Monmouth poll, points out that this pattern isn’t normal. In previous campaigns, voters cared more about ideology than electability. I think there are two main reasons for the switch. The first, of course, is the awfulness of the Trump presidency. But the less obvious reason is important too: The differences among most of the leading Democratic presidential candidates just aren’t very big right now. [Sign up for David Leonhardt’s daily newsletter — with commentary on the news and reading suggestions from around the web.] They all favor policies to lift incomes and reduce living costs for the middle class and poor. They all favor tax increases on the rich. They all favor climate action, voting rights and expanded Medicare. Most voters understand that choosing a candidate with modestly different ideas about how to achieve these goals isn’t much of a sacrifice. So if Democrats wanted to identify their best hope for beating Trump, what would that candidate look like? Above all, it would be a candidate good at persuading Americans that he or she was on their side — on their side against the forces causing the stagnation of American living standards. More specifically, this candidate would be someone who could persuade swing voters of this allegiance. Swing voters still exist. Enough Americans switched from backing Barack Obama in 2012 to Donald Trump in 2016 to House Democrats in 2018 to help decide those elections. I understand why some Democratic activists are instead drawn to the idea of victory through turnout: It offers the promise of avoiding any political compromise. The problem is, there are virtually no examples of Democrats winning close races without emphasizing persuasion. The 2018 attempts, in Florida, Georgia and Texas, all fell short. Yet progressives shouldn’t despair — because swing voters are quite progressive, especially on economic issues. For years, we’ve been hearing about a kind of fantasy swing voter, conjured by political pundits and corporate chieftains, who is socially liberal and economically conservative (as many pundits and chieftains are). The actual swing voter leans decidedly left on economics, in favor of tax increases on the rich, opposed to Medicare cuts and skeptical of big business. Still, these swing voters don’t think of themselves as radical. They are typically patriotic and religious. Many think of themselves as moderate and, strange as it may sound, many thought of Trump as moderate in 2016. When Republicans can paint a Democrat as an out-of-touch elitist — like they did Hillary Clinton, John Kerry, Al Gore or Michael Dukakis — the Republican candidate often wins these voters. When Democrats can instead come off as middle-class fighters, they tend to win. In the 2020 field, two Democrats have the strongest track record of running as middle-class fighters: Amy Klobuchar and Sherrod Brown. They are both Midwestern senators, Klobuchar (who launched her campaign Sunday) from Minnesota, Brown (who hasn’t yet decided whether to run) from Ohio. They both have a populist folksiness to them. And, no, those aren’t racial code words. Obama also won swing voters thanks in part to populist folksiness. About the power of large corporations, Klobuchar has said, “The public is at a breaking point.” She talks constantly about lowering health care costs. Brown talks constantly about restoring “the dignity of work.” Both have also smartly avoided some ideas that play better with liberal Twitter than swing voters, like the fever dream of eliminating private health insurance. And both of them win elections. Last year, while most Ohio Democrats were getting trounced, Brown won, by seven percentage points. Klobuchar won her own re-election in a landslide. She even won in two of the only three House districts nationwide — both outside of the Twin Cities — that flipped from Democrat to Republican last year. “She’s a progressive who’s found a way to connect with a wide range of people Democrats often struggle to reach,” Lawrence Jacobs of the University of Minnesota told me. “The Klobuchar message is: You can be both progressive and electable.” In her Senate races, Amy Klobuchar has won more votes than other Democrats on the ballot in Minnesota. 2018 Klobuchar 60.3% Walz (Gov.) 53.8 T. Smith (Sen.) 53.0 Ellison (Att. Gen.) 49.0 2012 Klobuchar 65.2% Obama (Pres.) 52.7 2006 Klobuchar 58.1% Swanson (Att. Gen.) 53.2 Hatch (Gov.) 45.7 Note: Total general-election vote share in each race. By The New York Times Klobuchar and Brown do have weaknesses. She is battling accusations of having been a harsh boss, which seem to be a mix of sexist stereotype and some truth. Brown, as a middle-aged white guy not known for rhetorical greatness, will have to show he isn’t too boring to stand out in a crowded field. But if I were Trump, I would fear Klobuchar and Brown. Either would be well positioned to take back blue-collar states Trump needs, like Wisconsin, Michigan, Pennsylvania and maybe even Ohio and Iowa. They could also play well in the Sunbelt suburbs of Arizona, Florida and North Carolina. And if I were the other 2020 Democrats, I’d be studying how Klobuchar and Brown have succeeded where so many other Democrats have been failing. Sign up for David Leonhardt’s daily newsletter with commentary on the news and reading suggestions from around the web. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt • Facebook 

Supported by Amy Klobuchar, Sherrod Brown and how to be a middle-class fighter. By David Leonhardt Opinion Columnist A few weeks ago, the pollsters at Monmouth University asked Democrats across the country to choose between two different kinds of nominees. One was a candidate whom the voter agreed with on most issues but who might struggle to beat President Trump. The other was the reverse — a strong candidate with different views from those of the person being polled. It was a rout. About 56 percent preferred the more electable candidate, compared with 33 percent who picked the more ideologically in-sync candidate. The gap was even larger among women and liberal Democrats. Patrick Murray, who runs the Monmouth poll, points out that this pattern isn’t normal. In previous campaigns, voters cared more about ideology than electability. I think there are two main reasons for the switch. The first, of course, is the awfulness of the Trump presidency. But the less obvious reason is important too: The differences among most of the leading Democratic presidential candidates just aren’t very big right now. [Sign up for David Leonhardt’s daily newsletter — with commentary on the news and reading suggestions from around the web.] They all favor policies to lift incomes and reduce living costs for the middle class and poor. They all favor tax increases on the rich. They all favor climate action, voting rights and expanded Medicare. Most voters understand that choosing a candidate with modestly different ideas about how to achieve these goals isn’t much of a sacrifice. So if Democrats wanted to identify their best hope for beating Trump, what would that candidate look like? Above all, it would be a candidate good at persuading Americans that he or she was on their side — on their side against the forces causing the stagnation of American living standards. More specifically, this candidate would be someone who could persuade swing voters of this allegiance. Swing voters still exist. Enough Americans switched from backing Barack Obama in 2012 to Donald Trump in 2016 to House Democrats in 2018 to help decide those elections. I understand why some Democratic activists are instead drawn to the idea of victory through turnout: It offers the promise of avoiding any political compromise. The problem is, there are virtually no examples of Democrats winning close races without emphasizing persuasion. The 2018 attempts, in Florida, Georgia and Texas, all fell short. Yet progressives shouldn’t despair — because swing voters are quite progressive, especially on economic issues. For years, we’ve been hearing about a kind of fantasy swing voter, conjured by political pundits and corporate chieftains, who is socially liberal and economically conservative (as many pundits and chieftains are). The actual swing voter leans decidedly left on economics, in favor of tax increases on the rich, opposed to Medicare cuts and skeptical of big business. Still, these swing voters don’t think of themselves as radical. They are typically patriotic and religious. Many think of themselves as moderate and, strange as it may sound, many thought of Trump as moderate in 2016. When Republicans can paint a Democrat as an out-of-touch elitist — like they did Hillary Clinton, John Kerry, Al Gore or Michael Dukakis — the Republican candidate often wins these voters. When Democrats can instead come off as middle-class fighters, they tend to win. In the 2020 field, two Democrats have the strongest track record of running as middle-class fighters: Amy Klobuchar and Sherrod Brown. They are both Midwestern senators, Klobuchar (who launched her campaign Sunday) from Minnesota, Brown (who hasn’t yet decided whether to run) from Ohio. They both have a populist folksiness to them. And, no, those aren’t racial code words. Obama also won swing voters thanks in part to populist folksiness. About the power of large corporations, Klobuchar has said, “The public is at a breaking point.” She talks constantly about lowering health care costs. Brown talks constantly about restoring “the dignity of work.” Both have also smartly avoided some ideas that play better with liberal Twitter than swing voters, like the fever dream of eliminating private health insurance. And both of them win elections. Last year, while most Ohio Democrats were getting trounced, Brown won, by seven percentage points. Klobuchar won her own re-election in a landslide. She even won in two of the only three House districts nationwide — both outside of the Twin Cities — that flipped from Democrat to Republican last year. “She’s a progressive who’s found a way to connect with a wide range of people Democrats often struggle to reach,” Lawrence Jacobs of the University of Minnesota told me. “The Klobuchar message is: You can be both progressive and electable.” In her Senate races, Amy Klobuchar has won more votes than other Democrats on the ballot in Minnesota. 2018 Klobuchar 60.3% Walz (Gov.) 53.8 T. Smith (Sen.) 53.0 Ellison (Att. Gen.) 49.0 2012 Klobuchar 65.2% Obama (Pres.) 52.7 2006 Klobuchar 58.1% Swanson (Att. Gen.) 53.2 Hatch (Gov.) 45.7 Note: Total general-election vote share in each race. By The New York Times Klobuchar and Brown do have weaknesses. She is battling accusations of having been a harsh boss, which seem to be a mix of sexist stereotype and some truth. Brown, as a middle-aged white guy not known for rhetorical greatness, will have to show he isn’t too boring to stand out in a crowded field. But if I were Trump, I would fear Klobuchar and Brown. Either would be well positioned to take back blue-collar states Trump needs, like Wisconsin, Michigan, Pennsylvania and maybe even Ohio and Iowa. They could also play well in the Sunbelt suburbs of Arizona, Florida and North Carolina. And if I were the other 2020 Democrats, I’d be studying how Klobuchar and Brown have succeeded where so many other Democrats have been failing. Sign up for David Leonhardt’s daily newsletter with commentary on the news and reading suggestions from around the web. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt • Facebook Supported by By The Associated Press NEW YORK — Special counsel Robert Mueller's long-awaited report outlined Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election. But Mueller did not establish that members of the Trump campaign conspired or coordinated with the Russian government, and he made no conclusion on the question of whether the president obstructed justice. As lawmakers await a version of the report with fewer redactions, here's a look at the other investigations surrounding Trump and inquiries that stemmed from Mueller's Russia investigation. Trump has dismissed the investigations as politically motivated harassment. HUSH-MONEY PROBE Federal prosecutors in New York are still investigating the hush-money payments that led Trump's former attorney, Michael Cohen, to plead guilty last year to campaign-finance violations. There are mounting indications the probe is winding down, but a federal judge this year ordered portions of a search warrant to be kept secret until prosecutors tell him the investigation has concluded. Cohen helped orchestrate six-figure payments to a porn actress, Stormy Daniels, and a former Playboy model, Karen McDougal, to keep them quiet during the campaign about alleged affairs with Trump. Cohen has implicated Trump in the case, saying he ordered the payments and later reimbursed him for his efforts. The U.S. Justice Department has held for decades that a sitting president cannot be indicted. If prosecutors find evidence Trump committed a crime, they could wait to charge him after he leaves office, though the legal deadline for filing charges is five years for the campaign-finance violations in question. Trump says the payments to Daniels and McDougal were a private matter unrelated to his campaign. Cohen is scheduled to begin serving a three-year prison sentence next month. MUELLER'S REFERALS In all, Mueller's team said it referred 14 cases to prosecutors in other jurisdictions, including the Cohen case, which was handled by the Southern District of New York. A dozen of those investigations were blacked out of Mueller's report because those inquiries remain ongoing. It's not clear whether they will result in any charges. Another case that was referred was that of Gregory Craig, the former Obama White House counsel charged recently with making a false statement in a foreign lobbying probe. STATE INQUIRIES New York's attorney general has opened a civil investigation into Cohen's allegations that Trump exaggerated his wealth to obtain loans. Letitia James, a Democrat, issued subpoenas last month to Deutsche Bank and Investors Bank seeking loan applications and other records related to Trump real estate projects and his failed 2014 bid to buy the Buffalo Bills. James' office is also overseeing a lawsuit alleging Trump turned his charitable foundation into a wing of his White House campaign. The Trump Foundation reached a deal in December to fold and distribute about $1.7 million in remaining funds, but the lawsuit is continuing as James seeks millions of dollars in restitution and an order banning Trump and his three eldest children from running any New York charities for 10 years. At the same time, New York's insurance regulator is investigating Cohen's allegations that Trump also misled insurance companies about his financial worth and the state's tax department has said it's "vigorously pursuing all appropriate avenues of investigation" into a New York Times story last October that reported Trump and his family cheated tax authorities for decades. New York City also said it would investigate. INAUGURAL PROBE Federal prosecutors in New York are also investigating Trump's inaugural committee, which raised an unprecedented $107 million to celebrate his election. The inquiry has focused partly on whether donors received "benefits" after making contributions or whether foreign nationals made illegal donations, according to a subpoena sent to the committee. The same document shows prosecutors are looking at whether the committee's vendors were paid with unreported donations. The White House has said Trump was not involved in the operations of his inaugural committee. __ This version of the story has been corrected to show that Cohen was sentenced to 3 years in prison, not months.

Supported by By The Associated Press NEW YORK — Special counsel Robert Mueller's long-awaited report outlined Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election. But Mueller did not establish that members of the Trump campaign conspired or coordinated with the Russian government, and he made no conclusion on the question of whether the president obstructed justice. As lawmakers await a version of the report with fewer redactions, here's a look at the other investigations surrounding Trump and inquiries that stemmed from Mueller's Russia investigation. Trump has dismissed the investigations as politically motivated harassment. HUSH-MONEY PROBE Federal prosecutors in New York are still investigating the hush-money payments that led Trump's former attorney, Michael Cohen, to plead guilty last year to campaign-finance violations. There are mounting indications the probe is winding down, but a federal judge this year ordered portions of a search warrant to be kept secret until prosecutors tell him the investigation has concluded. Cohen helped orchestrate six-figure payments to a porn actress, Stormy Daniels, and a former Playboy model, Karen McDougal, to keep them quiet during the campaign about alleged affairs with Trump. Cohen has implicated Trump in the case, saying he ordered the payments and later reimbursed him for his efforts. The U.S. Justice Department has held for decades that a sitting president cannot be indicted. If prosecutors find evidence Trump committed a crime, they could wait to charge him after he leaves office, though the legal deadline for filing charges is five years for the campaign-finance violations in question. Trump says the payments to Daniels and McDougal were a private matter unrelated to his campaign. Cohen is scheduled to begin serving a three-year prison sentence next month. MUELLER'S REFERALS In all, Mueller's team said it referred 14 cases to prosecutors in other jurisdictions, including the Cohen case, which was handled by the Southern District of New York. A dozen of those investigations were blacked out of Mueller's report because those inquiries remain ongoing. It's not clear whether they will result in any charges. Another case that was referred was that of Gregory Craig, the former Obama White House counsel charged recently with making a false statement in a foreign lobbying probe. STATE INQUIRIES New York's attorney general has opened a civil investigation into Cohen's allegations that Trump exaggerated his wealth to obtain loans. Letitia James, a Democrat, issued subpoenas last month to Deutsche Bank and Investors Bank seeking loan applications and other records related to Trump real estate projects and his failed 2014 bid to buy the Buffalo Bills. James' office is also overseeing a lawsuit alleging Trump turned his charitable foundation into a wing of his White House campaign. The Trump Foundation reached a deal in December to fold and distribute about $1.7 million in remaining funds, but the lawsuit is continuing as James seeks millions of dollars in restitution and an order banning Trump and his three eldest children from running any New York charities for 10 years. At the same time, New York's insurance regulator is investigating Cohen's allegations that Trump also misled insurance companies about his financial worth and the state's tax department has said it's "vigorously pursuing all appropriate avenues of investigation" into a New York Times story last October that reported Trump and his family cheated tax authorities for decades. New York City also said it would investigate. INAUGURAL PROBE Federal prosecutors in New York are also investigating Trump's inaugural committee, which raised an unprecedented $107 million to celebrate his election. The inquiry has focused partly on whether donors received "benefits" after making contributions or whether foreign nationals made illegal donations, according to a subpoena sent to the committee. The same document shows prosecutors are looking at whether the committee's vendors were paid with unreported donations. The White House has said Trump was not involved in the operations of his inaugural committee. __ This version of the story has been corrected to show that Cohen was sentenced to 3 years in prison, not months.Supported by By The Associated Press MINNEAPOLIS — The Latest on President Donald Trump's trip to Minnesota (all times local): 2:20 p.m. President Donald Trump says he's celebrating Tax Day. Trump flew to Minnesota on Monday to highlight the $1.5 trillion package of corporate and individual tax cuts he signed into law in 2017. U.S. taxpayers across the country are rushing to meet a midnight Monday deadline for filing their income tax returns with the IRS. A smattering of boos rose from the audience at a trucking company in the Minneapolis suburb of Burnsville after Trump said "today is Tax Day that we're celebrating." Trump says incorrectly that he enacted the largest package of tax cuts in history. But the facts don't bear that out. Trump's package considerably trails Ronald Reagan's 1981 tax cuts, Barack Obama's 2013 extension of George W. Bush's tax cuts, and others. __ 1:05 p.m. President Donald Trump is spending America's tax filing day in Minnesota. Trump arrived in Minneapolis on Monday and was headed to a trucking company in the suburb of Burnsville to host a roundtable discussion on the economy. The president says the economy is doing well. He also says a package of corporate and individual tax cuts he signed into law in 2017 are "working very, very well." Minnesota U.S. Sen. Amy Klobuchar, a 2020 Democratic presidential candidate, said Sunday the tax cuts added trillions of dollars to the nation's debt and disproportionately helped the wealthy. Trump's tax day visit also renews attention on his refusal to release his tax returns. Trump narrowly lost Minnesota to Democrat Hillary Clinton in 2016 but hopes to claim victory here in 2020.

Supported by By The Associated Press MINNEAPOLIS — The Latest on President Donald Trump's trip to Minnesota (all times local): 2:20 p.m. President Donald Trump says he's celebrating Tax Day. Trump flew to Minnesota on Monday to highlight the $1.5 trillion package of corporate and individual tax cuts he signed into law in 2017. U.S. taxpayers across the country are rushing to meet a midnight Monday deadline for filing their income tax returns with the IRS. A smattering of boos rose from the audience at a trucking company in the Minneapolis suburb of Burnsville after Trump said "today is Tax Day that we're celebrating." Trump says incorrectly that he enacted the largest package of tax cuts in history. But the facts don't bear that out. Trump's package considerably trails Ronald Reagan's 1981 tax cuts, Barack Obama's 2013 extension of George W. Bush's tax cuts, and others. __ 1:05 p.m. President Donald Trump is spending America's tax filing day in Minnesota. Trump arrived in Minneapolis on Monday and was headed to a trucking company in the suburb of Burnsville to host a roundtable discussion on the economy. The president says the economy is doing well. He also says a package of corporate and individual tax cuts he signed into law in 2017 are "working very, very well." Minnesota U.S. Sen. Amy Klobuchar, a 2020 Democratic presidential candidate, said Sunday the tax cuts added trillions of dollars to the nation's debt and disproportionately helped the wealthy. Trump's tax day visit also renews attention on his refusal to release his tax returns. Trump narrowly lost Minnesota to Democrat Hillary Clinton in 2016 but hopes to claim victory here in 2020.Supported by There was no need to call for recognizing Israel’s annexation of the Syrian territory.  By The Editorial Board The editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section. President Trump’s proposed reversal of decades of American policy on the Israeli occupation of the Golan Heights has more to do with Israeli politics than American interests — or good sense.  On Thursday, he announced on Twitter that the United States should recognize Israeli sovereignty in the disputed Golan Heights, on Israel’s border with Syria, even though no other country has done so. The United Nations has declared that official annexation of the territory would violate international law. Mr. Trump created a controversy where none needed to exist. Israel has been under no pressure to end the occupation of the Golan, which began during the 1967 Arab-Israeli War with the seizure of some 400 square miles by Israeli troops.  But Israel’s prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, is facing a tough re-election fight, and he has pleaded with Mr. Trump to make the move. The tweet bolsters his claim that he can best keep Israel safe because of his close ties to the White House.  Support for Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights would also give Israel’s right-wing parties an opening to argue for Israel’s annexation of the West Bank. Such a move would crush any remaining hope of Palestinian statehood and put Israel’s future as a Jewish democracy at risk.  Even the liberal group Americans for Peace Now, while opposing Mr. Trump’s policy shift, said that Israel has legitimate reasons to maintain its hold on the Golan Heights for now, because “Syria is in shambles, swarming with belligerent extremist groups, and Iran has gained a foothold there in the course of Syria’s horrific civil war.”  For decades, the United Nations and the United States refused to officially recognize Israel’s seizure of the Golan Heights or the West Bank, on the ground that the boundaries of Israel and any new Palestinian state must be negotiated. In 1981, when Israel claimed to have annexed the Golan Heights, the Reagan administration retaliated by suspending a strategic cooperation agreement with Israel. The two countries reached another military cooperation agreement two years later. But since the Syrian war began in 2011, with Iranian and Russian military forces intervening in support of the Assad regime, pressure on Israel to withdraw from the Golan Heights has dissipated. As has become a pattern, there was no sign that the new policy went through any formal review before the president announced it. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, visiting Jerusalem in a show of support for Mr. Netanyahu before the April 9 election, appeared surprised by the timing of Mr. Trump’s tweet. Hours before, Mr. Pompeo had told journalists that America’s policy on the Golan Heights had not changed. Recognition of Israel’s claim to the Golan Heights was the latest in a series of decisions, like moving the American Embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem and abrogating the Iran nuclear deal, that demonstrated the administration’s unwavering support for Israel’s conservative government. Mr. Trump fancies himself a tough negotiator, but he has given away this valuable American diplomatic leverage, built up by previous presidents across decades, in exchange for nothing of benefit to the United States.  Mr. Netanyahu, his Israeli supporters and pro-Netanyahu members of Congress applauded the decision. Mr. Netanyahu will be in Washington next week, where he will meet with Mr. Trump and attend the annual conference of the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, the pro-Israel lobbying group. Unsurprisingly, the European Union, once America’s closest ally on Middle East issues, announced that it would not recognize Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights. Leaders in Syria and Iran condemned Mr. Trump’s decision, and President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey warned that it brought the region to the brink of crisis. Syria vowed to take the territory back. Effectively endorsing the forcible expropriation of Syrian land will certainly make it harder for the United States to continue credibly opposing Russia’s 2014 annexation of Crimea.  In general, though, the response was more muted than it might have been in the past, before Arab leaders decided they were more interested in having Israel as a partner against Iran. Mr. Trump, facing his own re-election in 2020, no doubt hopes his decision will build support among his base of pro-Israel evangelicals and American Jews. It’s more likely to exacerbate growing divisions among Americans over his administration’s unwavering support for Mr. Netanyahu and its damaging effect on American interests. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported by There was no need to call for recognizing Israel’s annexation of the Syrian territory.  By The Editorial Board The editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section. President Trump’s proposed reversal of decades of American policy on the Israeli occupation of the Golan Heights has more to do with Israeli politics than American interests — or good sense.  On Thursday, he announced on Twitter that the United States should recognize Israeli sovereignty in the disputed Golan Heights, on Israel’s border with Syria, even though no other country has done so. The United Nations has declared that official annexation of the territory would violate international law. Mr. Trump created a controversy where none needed to exist. Israel has been under no pressure to end the occupation of the Golan, which began during the 1967 Arab-Israeli War with the seizure of some 400 square miles by Israeli troops.  But Israel’s prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, is facing a tough re-election fight, and he has pleaded with Mr. Trump to make the move. The tweet bolsters his claim that he can best keep Israel safe because of his close ties to the White House.  Support for Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights would also give Israel’s right-wing parties an opening to argue for Israel’s annexation of the West Bank. Such a move would crush any remaining hope of Palestinian statehood and put Israel’s future as a Jewish democracy at risk.  Even the liberal group Americans for Peace Now, while opposing Mr. Trump’s policy shift, said that Israel has legitimate reasons to maintain its hold on the Golan Heights for now, because “Syria is in shambles, swarming with belligerent extremist groups, and Iran has gained a foothold there in the course of Syria’s horrific civil war.”  For decades, the United Nations and the United States refused to officially recognize Israel’s seizure of the Golan Heights or the West Bank, on the ground that the boundaries of Israel and any new Palestinian state must be negotiated. In 1981, when Israel claimed to have annexed the Golan Heights, the Reagan administration retaliated by suspending a strategic cooperation agreement with Israel. The two countries reached another military cooperation agreement two years later. But since the Syrian war began in 2011, with Iranian and Russian military forces intervening in support of the Assad regime, pressure on Israel to withdraw from the Golan Heights has dissipated. As has become a pattern, there was no sign that the new policy went through any formal review before the president announced it. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, visiting Jerusalem in a show of support for Mr. Netanyahu before the April 9 election, appeared surprised by the timing of Mr. Trump’s tweet. Hours before, Mr. Pompeo had told journalists that America’s policy on the Golan Heights had not changed. Recognition of Israel’s claim to the Golan Heights was the latest in a series of decisions, like moving the American Embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem and abrogating the Iran nuclear deal, that demonstrated the administration’s unwavering support for Israel’s conservative government. Mr. Trump fancies himself a tough negotiator, but he has given away this valuable American diplomatic leverage, built up by previous presidents across decades, in exchange for nothing of benefit to the United States.  Mr. Netanyahu, his Israeli supporters and pro-Netanyahu members of Congress applauded the decision. Mr. Netanyahu will be in Washington next week, where he will meet with Mr. Trump and attend the annual conference of the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, the pro-Israel lobbying group. Unsurprisingly, the European Union, once America’s closest ally on Middle East issues, announced that it would not recognize Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights. Leaders in Syria and Iran condemned Mr. Trump’s decision, and President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey warned that it brought the region to the brink of crisis. Syria vowed to take the territory back. Effectively endorsing the forcible expropriation of Syrian land will certainly make it harder for the United States to continue credibly opposing Russia’s 2014 annexation of Crimea.  In general, though, the response was more muted than it might have been in the past, before Arab leaders decided they were more interested in having Israel as a partner against Iran. Mr. Trump, facing his own re-election in 2020, no doubt hopes his decision will build support among his base of pro-Israel evangelicals and American Jews. It’s more likely to exacerbate growing divisions among Americans over his administration’s unwavering support for Mr. Netanyahu and its damaging effect on American interests. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Supported by Donald J. Trump has wielded the Sept. 11 attacks for many reasons, for a moment of somber reflection, for a campaign rallying cry and for personal gain. By Sarah Maslin Nir [What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.] With about two months left in the bruising 2016 presidential campaign, Donald J. Trump — the president-to-be who took on Gold Star parents and a federal judge, and seemed emboldened by the skirmishes — agreed to pause his campaign on the anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks. The unexpected show of decorum turned out to be a rare departure for President Trump, who has a history of using the Sept. 11 attacks to make political points, either by trying to burnish his own reputation or by damaging others’. The most recent example came last week, when Mr. Trump circulated a video on Twitter to escalate his political attacks on Representative Ilhan Omar, the first-term Democrat of Minnesota who is also one of the first Muslim women to serve in Congress.  Mr. Trump posted a 43-second video that interspersed a snippet of speech from Representative Ilhan Omar alongside footage of the Sept. 11 attacks. His intent was to criticize what he apparently perceived as dismissive comments about the attack made by the congresswoman. The tweet was shared widely by Mr. Trump’s supporters, who believe the words that Ms. Omar used to describe the attacks — “some people did something” — minimized the tragedy. The video, in which Ms. Omar’s words are smash cut with pictures of the World Trade Center on fire, drew condemnation from her supporters; they accused the president of using a small portion of a speech on civil rights to the Council on American-Islamic Relations, an anti-discrimination group, to foment xenophobia and an anti-Muslim sentiment. Representative Tim Ryan, an Ohio Democrat, was among several presidential hopefuls who criticized Mr. Trump’s tweet; he accused the president of being “irresponsible for invoking 9/11 for political gain.” “It’s un-American to its core because his whole goal is to divide us,” Mr. Ryan wrote on Twitter. “We deserve better than this from the most powerful office in the world.” On the presidential campaign trail, Mr. Trump asserted that he had a crow’s nest view of the attacks on the World Trade Center, saying that he had a window in his apartment that “was specifically aimed at the World Trade Center.” And from that window, Mr. Trump said he “watched those people jump, and I watched the second plane hit.” At the time, Mr. Trump lived at Trump Tower in Midtown Manhattan, about four miles from the Trade Center. Rick Reilly, the sports journalist and author of the book “Commander in Cheat: How Golf Explains Trump,” said the president claimed to have used a telescope. “I once looked through his telescope in his Trump Tower apartment that looked downtown,” Mr. Reilly wrote on Twitter. “He said, ‘I saw the towers come down through that telescope.’ I lifted my head up. ‘Oh my god,’ I gasped. ‘Solid gold,’ he said.” The landmark 72-story tower, 40 Wall Street, is commonly known as the Trump Building. After the terrorist attacks, Mr. Trump applied for and received $150,000 from a New York State recovery fund for small businesses. (Though Mr. Trump owns a business empire, he was eligible because the Trump-owned entity controlling 40 Wall Street had fewer than 500 employees, according to reports.)  Mr. Trump has said the money was an automatic reimbursement for housing volunteers and emergency personnel who responded to the devastation. But the application filed with the Empire State Development Corporation, which operated the fund, was for cleanup, repair and loss of rental income, according to a New York Daily News investigation. The day of the attacks, Mr. Trump said his building, about seven blocks from where the Trade Center stood, was unscathed.  Representative Jerrold Nadler, a Democrat from New York City who is chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, went so far on Sunday as to say Mr. Trump “stole” the funds. The 40 Wall Street episode, Mr. Nadler said on CNN, shortly after the video of Ms. Omar was shared, undermined the president's condemnation of her.  “He has no moral authority to be talking about 9/11 at all,” Mr. Nadler said. The building also came up during a television interview with Mr. Trump on Sept. 11, 2001. “40 Wall Street actually was the second-tallest building in downtown Manhattan and it was actually, before the World Trade Center, was the tallest — and then, when they built the World Trade Center, it became known as the second tallest,” Mr. Trump said on WWOR-TV. “And now it’s the tallest.”  Perhaps Mr. Trump’s most incendiary use of the terrorist attacks as a political point was made at a  campaign rally in Birmingham, Ala., in 2015. Mr. Trump, then a presidential candidate, told supporters that on the day of the attack, in Jersey City, just across the Hudson River from Manhattan, “thousands and thousands of people were cheering as that building was coming down. Thousands of people were cheering.”  Mr. Trump said the celebrants were Muslim. Mr. Trump continued to use the talking point throughout his campaign, even as reports of such celebrations were repeatedly debunked.  Pointing to reporting from The Washington Post in 2001 that said the police had looked into allegations of celebrations, Mr. Trump expressed vindication, and mocked the physical disability of a Post reporter whom he said corroborated his belief. (The reporter, Serge F. Kovaleski, now works for The Times.) In 2017, Mr. Trump signed into law an expansion of a 2001 act that created a medal of valor for 9/11 first responders, widening the scope of who was eligible for the award.  But the next year, the president’s proposed 2019 budget included restructuring the National Institutes of Health, a move that would have dried up some funding for health-related claims by people affected by the attacks.  After vociferous outcry from victims and lawmakers (a cause also picked up by the comic and talk show host Jon Stewart), the plan was scrapped.  In February, the September 11th Victim Compensation Fund announced it was running out of money and would have to slash payouts for new claimants by up to 70 percent, leading to calls for its renewal. The fund, which was almost quashed in 2011 by Republicans, is set to terminate in 2020.  In the weeks after the attacks, Mr. Trump appeared on the Howard Stern Show and pledged a $10,000 charitable donation to the Twin Towers Fund. During the 2016 presidential campaign, Mr. Trump made references to his Sept. 11 donations and to other efforts to help out at ground zero.  But in October 2016, Scott M. Stringer, the New York City comptroller, found no donation made by Mr. Trump to that charity in the 12-month period following the on-air pledge.  As president, Mr. Trump has been in office for two anniversaries of the event. In 2017, he marked the occasion at the Pentagon in a somber memorial. “On that day not only did the world change, but we all changed,” Mr. Trump said at the time. “Our differences never looked so small, our common bonds never felt so strong.”  Last year, Mr. Trump visited the Flight 93 National Memorial in Pennsylvania, the site where passengers brought down a plane hijacked by terrorists on Sept. 11. “This field is now a monument to American defiance,” he said at the ceremony. “America will never, ever submit to tyranny.” (That same year, he used the occasion to praise Rudolph W. Giuliani, his lawyer, who was mayor of New York City at the time of the attack.) In 2013, before he was president, Mr. Trump struck a very different tone on Twitter: Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this article misstated the publication month of Rick Reilly's book on President Trump. It was published in April; it is not due out in May. Sarah Maslin Nir covers breaking news for the Metro section. She was a Pulitzer Prize finalist for her series “Unvarnished,” an investigation into New York City’s nail salon industry that documented the exploitative labor practices and health issues manicurists face.  @SarahMaslinNir 

Supported by Donald J. Trump has wielded the Sept. 11 attacks for many reasons, for a moment of somber reflection, for a campaign rallying cry and for personal gain. By Sarah Maslin Nir [What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.] With about two months left in the bruising 2016 presidential campaign, Donald J. Trump — the president-to-be who took on Gold Star parents and a federal judge, and seemed emboldened by the skirmishes — agreed to pause his campaign on the anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks. The unexpected show of decorum turned out to be a rare departure for President Trump, who has a history of using the Sept. 11 attacks to make political points, either by trying to burnish his own reputation or by damaging others’. The most recent example came last week, when Mr. Trump circulated a video on Twitter to escalate his political attacks on Representative Ilhan Omar, the first-term Democrat of Minnesota who is also one of the first Muslim women to serve in Congress.  Mr. Trump posted a 43-second video that interspersed a snippet of speech from Representative Ilhan Omar alongside footage of the Sept. 11 attacks. His intent was to criticize what he apparently perceived as dismissive comments about the attack made by the congresswoman. The tweet was shared widely by Mr. Trump’s supporters, who believe the words that Ms. Omar used to describe the attacks — “some people did something” — minimized the tragedy. The video, in which Ms. Omar’s words are smash cut with pictures of the World Trade Center on fire, drew condemnation from her supporters; they accused the president of using a small portion of a speech on civil rights to the Council on American-Islamic Relations, an anti-discrimination group, to foment xenophobia and an anti-Muslim sentiment. Representative Tim Ryan, an Ohio Democrat, was among several presidential hopefuls who criticized Mr. Trump’s tweet; he accused the president of being “irresponsible for invoking 9/11 for political gain.” “It’s un-American to its core because his whole goal is to divide us,” Mr. Ryan wrote on Twitter. “We deserve better than this from the most powerful office in the world.” On the presidential campaign trail, Mr. Trump asserted that he had a crow’s nest view of the attacks on the World Trade Center, saying that he had a window in his apartment that “was specifically aimed at the World Trade Center.” And from that window, Mr. Trump said he “watched those people jump, and I watched the second plane hit.” At the time, Mr. Trump lived at Trump Tower in Midtown Manhattan, about four miles from the Trade Center. Rick Reilly, the sports journalist and author of the book “Commander in Cheat: How Golf Explains Trump,” said the president claimed to have used a telescope. “I once looked through his telescope in his Trump Tower apartment that looked downtown,” Mr. Reilly wrote on Twitter. “He said, ‘I saw the towers come down through that telescope.’ I lifted my head up. ‘Oh my god,’ I gasped. ‘Solid gold,’ he said.” The landmark 72-story tower, 40 Wall Street, is commonly known as the Trump Building. After the terrorist attacks, Mr. Trump applied for and received $150,000 from a New York State recovery fund for small businesses. (Though Mr. Trump owns a business empire, he was eligible because the Trump-owned entity controlling 40 Wall Street had fewer than 500 employees, according to reports.)  Mr. Trump has said the money was an automatic reimbursement for housing volunteers and emergency personnel who responded to the devastation. But the application filed with the Empire State Development Corporation, which operated the fund, was for cleanup, repair and loss of rental income, according to a New York Daily News investigation. The day of the attacks, Mr. Trump said his building, about seven blocks from where the Trade Center stood, was unscathed.  Representative Jerrold Nadler, a Democrat from New York City who is chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, went so far on Sunday as to say Mr. Trump “stole” the funds. The 40 Wall Street episode, Mr. Nadler said on CNN, shortly after the video of Ms. Omar was shared, undermined the president's condemnation of her.  “He has no moral authority to be talking about 9/11 at all,” Mr. Nadler said. The building also came up during a television interview with Mr. Trump on Sept. 11, 2001. “40 Wall Street actually was the second-tallest building in downtown Manhattan and it was actually, before the World Trade Center, was the tallest — and then, when they built the World Trade Center, it became known as the second tallest,” Mr. Trump said on WWOR-TV. “And now it’s the tallest.”  Perhaps Mr. Trump’s most incendiary use of the terrorist attacks as a political point was made at a  campaign rally in Birmingham, Ala., in 2015. Mr. Trump, then a presidential candidate, told supporters that on the day of the attack, in Jersey City, just across the Hudson River from Manhattan, “thousands and thousands of people were cheering as that building was coming down. Thousands of people were cheering.”  Mr. Trump said the celebrants were Muslim. Mr. Trump continued to use the talking point throughout his campaign, even as reports of such celebrations were repeatedly debunked.  Pointing to reporting from The Washington Post in 2001 that said the police had looked into allegations of celebrations, Mr. Trump expressed vindication, and mocked the physical disability of a Post reporter whom he said corroborated his belief. (The reporter, Serge F. Kovaleski, now works for The Times.) In 2017, Mr. Trump signed into law an expansion of a 2001 act that created a medal of valor for 9/11 first responders, widening the scope of who was eligible for the award.  But the next year, the president’s proposed 2019 budget included restructuring the National Institutes of Health, a move that would have dried up some funding for health-related claims by people affected by the attacks.  After vociferous outcry from victims and lawmakers (a cause also picked up by the comic and talk show host Jon Stewart), the plan was scrapped.  In February, the September 11th Victim Compensation Fund announced it was running out of money and would have to slash payouts for new claimants by up to 70 percent, leading to calls for its renewal. The fund, which was almost quashed in 2011 by Republicans, is set to terminate in 2020.  In the weeks after the attacks, Mr. Trump appeared on the Howard Stern Show and pledged a $10,000 charitable donation to the Twin Towers Fund. During the 2016 presidential campaign, Mr. Trump made references to his Sept. 11 donations and to other efforts to help out at ground zero.  But in October 2016, Scott M. Stringer, the New York City comptroller, found no donation made by Mr. Trump to that charity in the 12-month period following the on-air pledge.  As president, Mr. Trump has been in office for two anniversaries of the event. In 2017, he marked the occasion at the Pentagon in a somber memorial. “On that day not only did the world change, but we all changed,” Mr. Trump said at the time. “Our differences never looked so small, our common bonds never felt so strong.”  Last year, Mr. Trump visited the Flight 93 National Memorial in Pennsylvania, the site where passengers brought down a plane hijacked by terrorists on Sept. 11. “This field is now a monument to American defiance,” he said at the ceremony. “America will never, ever submit to tyranny.” (That same year, he used the occasion to praise Rudolph W. Giuliani, his lawyer, who was mayor of New York City at the time of the attack.) In 2013, before he was president, Mr. Trump struck a very different tone on Twitter: Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this article misstated the publication month of Rick Reilly's book on President Trump. It was published in April; it is not due out in May. Sarah Maslin Nir covers breaking news for the Metro section. She was a Pulitzer Prize finalist for her series “Unvarnished,” an investigation into New York City’s nail salon industry that documented the exploitative labor practices and health issues manicurists face.  @SarahMaslinNir Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — The Latest on special counsel Robert Mueller's report and President Donald Trump (all times local): 3 p.m. The White House says President Donald Trump played golf Friday with conservative commentator Rush Limbaugh and a couple of unidentified friends. Trump is spending the Easter weekend at his private Mar-a-Lago club along with the first lady. The foursome played at Trump International Golf Club in West Palm Beach, Florida. The trip comes one day after a redacted special counsel report found no Trump campaign collusion with Russia around the 2016 election, but issued no clear verdict on obstruction, while detailing several instances of Trump seeking to squash the investigation. Prior to golfing, Trump lashed out through tweets at people who cooperated with Robert Mueller's team. He said statements in the report made by some were "fabricated & totally untrue." Trump struck a much harsher tone than the day before when he marked the report's release by tweeting "game over." ___ 9:25 a.m. President Donald Trump says some statements made in special counsel Robert Mueller's Russia report are "fabricated & totally untrue." Tweeting Friday from his Mar-a-Lago club in Palm Beach, Florida, Trump dubbed the more than 400-page document the "Crazy Mueller Report." He's alleging that "notes" some people said they took after meetings with him didn't exist until they were created for the Mueller investigation. Trump says he never agreed to testify because he didn't need to respond to what he says were "total bullshit" statements made about him in the report to make someone look good or make him look bad. __ 9:10 a.m. The chairman of the House Judiciary Committee has issued a subpoena for special counsel Robert Mueller's report and the underlying materials. Democratic Rep. Jerry Nadler of New York is asking for the information by May 1. That's also the day when Attorney General William Barr is scheduled to testify before a Senate committee and one day before Barr is set to appear before Nadler's committee. The subpoena is the opening shot in what could be a lengthy legal battle. If the Justice Department doesn't respond, Democrats could hold officials in contempt of Congress or eventually fight the battle in court. The Judiciary Committee voted 24-17 earlier this month to give Nadler permission to issue subpoenas for the final report, its exhibits and any underlying evidence or materials prepared for Mueller's investigation. ___ 8 a.m. President Donald Trump's spokeswoman Sarah Sanders is pushing back on allegations that special counsel Robert Mueller's Russia report exposed a culture of lying at the White House. Sanders also disputed allegations that she misled the media when she said that "countless" members of the FBI had lost confidence in FBI Director James Comey, which led to his firing. Sanders had told reporters after Comey's 2017 dismissal that she had heard from "countless" members of the FBI who welcomed the president's decision. She told ABC's "Good Morning America" on Friday that her word "countless" was a "slip of the tongue" made in the "heat of the moment." Democratic House Judiciary Chairman Jerrold Nadler, also speaking on ABC, said the Mueller report clearly outlines "a culture of lying" inside the White House. __ 7:40 a.m. House Judiciary Chairman Jerrold Nadler says he expects to issue a subpoena within a few hours for special counsel Robert Mueller's report on Russian election meddling and President Donald Trump. The New York Democrat told ABC's "Good Morning America" Friday that he is preparing a subpoena not only for Mueller's complete report, but also for the underlying documents, including grand jury evidence. He said, "We need the entire report, unredacted, and the underlying documents in order to make informed decisions." Attorney General William Barr sent the Mueller report to Congress, with some material redacted, including grand jury information. Grand jury evidence, including witness interviews, is normally off limits but can be obtained in court. __ 12:12 a.m. President Donald Trump sought the removal of special counsel Robert Mueller, discouraged witnesses from cooperating with prosecutors and prodded aides to mislead the public on his behalf. That's according to a hugely anticipated report from Mueller that details multiple efforts the president made to curtail a Russia probe he feared would cripple his administration. Mueller writes that Trump's attempts to seize control of the investigation, and directions to others on how to influence it, "were mostly unsuccessful, but that is largely because the persons who surrounded the President declined to carry out orders or accede to his requests." Mueller's two-volume, 448-page redacted report was released Thursday.

Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — The Latest on special counsel Robert Mueller's report and President Donald Trump (all times local): 3 p.m. The White House says President Donald Trump played golf Friday with conservative commentator Rush Limbaugh and a couple of unidentified friends. Trump is spending the Easter weekend at his private Mar-a-Lago club along with the first lady. The foursome played at Trump International Golf Club in West Palm Beach, Florida. The trip comes one day after a redacted special counsel report found no Trump campaign collusion with Russia around the 2016 election, but issued no clear verdict on obstruction, while detailing several instances of Trump seeking to squash the investigation. Prior to golfing, Trump lashed out through tweets at people who cooperated with Robert Mueller's team. He said statements in the report made by some were "fabricated & totally untrue." Trump struck a much harsher tone than the day before when he marked the report's release by tweeting "game over." ___ 9:25 a.m. President Donald Trump says some statements made in special counsel Robert Mueller's Russia report are "fabricated & totally untrue." Tweeting Friday from his Mar-a-Lago club in Palm Beach, Florida, Trump dubbed the more than 400-page document the "Crazy Mueller Report." He's alleging that "notes" some people said they took after meetings with him didn't exist until they were created for the Mueller investigation. Trump says he never agreed to testify because he didn't need to respond to what he says were "total bullshit" statements made about him in the report to make someone look good or make him look bad. __ 9:10 a.m. The chairman of the House Judiciary Committee has issued a subpoena for special counsel Robert Mueller's report and the underlying materials. Democratic Rep. Jerry Nadler of New York is asking for the information by May 1. That's also the day when Attorney General William Barr is scheduled to testify before a Senate committee and one day before Barr is set to appear before Nadler's committee. The subpoena is the opening shot in what could be a lengthy legal battle. If the Justice Department doesn't respond, Democrats could hold officials in contempt of Congress or eventually fight the battle in court. The Judiciary Committee voted 24-17 earlier this month to give Nadler permission to issue subpoenas for the final report, its exhibits and any underlying evidence or materials prepared for Mueller's investigation. ___ 8 a.m. President Donald Trump's spokeswoman Sarah Sanders is pushing back on allegations that special counsel Robert Mueller's Russia report exposed a culture of lying at the White House. Sanders also disputed allegations that she misled the media when she said that "countless" members of the FBI had lost confidence in FBI Director James Comey, which led to his firing. Sanders had told reporters after Comey's 2017 dismissal that she had heard from "countless" members of the FBI who welcomed the president's decision. She told ABC's "Good Morning America" on Friday that her word "countless" was a "slip of the tongue" made in the "heat of the moment." Democratic House Judiciary Chairman Jerrold Nadler, also speaking on ABC, said the Mueller report clearly outlines "a culture of lying" inside the White House. __ 7:40 a.m. House Judiciary Chairman Jerrold Nadler says he expects to issue a subpoena within a few hours for special counsel Robert Mueller's report on Russian election meddling and President Donald Trump. The New York Democrat told ABC's "Good Morning America" Friday that he is preparing a subpoena not only for Mueller's complete report, but also for the underlying documents, including grand jury evidence. He said, "We need the entire report, unredacted, and the underlying documents in order to make informed decisions." Attorney General William Barr sent the Mueller report to Congress, with some material redacted, including grand jury information. Grand jury evidence, including witness interviews, is normally off limits but can be obtained in court. __ 12:12 a.m. President Donald Trump sought the removal of special counsel Robert Mueller, discouraged witnesses from cooperating with prosecutors and prodded aides to mislead the public on his behalf. That's according to a hugely anticipated report from Mueller that details multiple efforts the president made to curtail a Russia probe he feared would cripple his administration. Mueller writes that Trump's attempts to seize control of the investigation, and directions to others on how to influence it, "were mostly unsuccessful, but that is largely because the persons who surrounded the President declined to carry out orders or accede to his requests." Mueller's two-volume, 448-page redacted report was released Thursday.Supported by By David D. Kirkpatrick President Trump on Friday abruptly reversed American policy toward Libya, issuing a statement publicly endorsing an aspiring strongman in his battle to depose the United Nations-backed government. The would-be strongman, Khalifa Hifter, launched a surprise attack on the Libyan capital, Tripoli, more than two weeks ago. Relief agencies said Thursday that more than 200 people had been killed in the battle, and in recent days Mr. Hifter’s forces have started shelling civilian neighborhoods. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said in a statement a few days after Mr. Hifter’s militia began its attack that “the administration at the highest levels” had made clear that “we oppose the military offensive” and “urge the immediate halt to these military operations.” Most Western governments and the United Nations have also condemned the attack and demanded a retreat. Mr. Trump, however, told Mr. Hifter almost the opposite, the White House said Friday. A militia leader who has given himself the title of Field Marshal, Mr. Hifter, 75, has long sought to portray his fight for power over Libya — including his advance on Tripoli — as a battle against “terrorism.” In the statement on Friday the White House said Mr. Trump had called Mr. Hifter on Monday to endorse that campaign. Mr. Trump called “to discuss ongoing counterterrorism efforts and the need to achieve peace and stability in Libya,” the White House said in the statement. “The President recognized Field Marshal Hifter’s significant role in fighting terrorism and securing Libya’s oil resources, and the two discussed a shared vision for Libya’s transition to a stable, democratic political system.” Analysts said Mr. Trump’s endorsement would embolden Mr. Hifter and hamper United Nations efforts to call for a cease-fire. It could also increase the likelihood that his regional sponsors like Egypt or the United Arab Emirates might intervene on his behalf, as each has in the past in Libya. The policy reversal came as a surprise in part because Mr. Hifter’s forces also appear to be losing ground. His promises of a quick victory have proved false, and his forces appear outmaneuvered by those aligned against them. Most analysts say that he has little hope of exerting his authority over all of Libya any time soon, so his continued campaign may only prolong the country’s instability. In the meantime, the battle for Tripoli has now diverted the attention of most of the Libyan militias that had been engaged in combating the fighters of the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL, said Frederic Wehrey, an expert on Libya at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. “It is nuts,” Mr. Wehrey said of Mr. Trump’s statement. “Even judging by the hard-nosed American goals of stabilizing the flow of oil and combating terrorism, this is completely shocking.” Mr. Trump’s endorsement is the clearest evidence yet of his preference for authoritarianism as the best response to the problems of the Middle East, a sharp departure from the professions of support for democracy by previous American presidents of both parties. Although this is not the first time Mr. Trump has praised an Arab strongman, his expression of support for Mr. Hifter appears to be the first time that Mr. Trump has embraced an aspiring authoritarian who is not yet in power and may never get there. A former general under Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi and also a former C.I.A. client, Mr. Hifter had been living in exile in the United States but returned to Libya during the Arab Spring uprisings in 2011. He first declared his intention to seize power in 2014, when Libya’s nascent transitional government was struggling to establish its authority over freewheeling militias around the country. Mr. Hifter vowed to rid Libya of Islamists of all kinds, and he quickly attracted support from Egypt, the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia. All three had aligned themselves in a regionwide campaign to crush the Muslim Brotherhood-style political movements that had appeared poised to ride Arab Spring elections to power. Mr. Hifter has never shown a willingness to accept any civilian authority. But “he fits to a T the kind of leader Trump likes to support,” said Andrew Miller, deputy director for policy at the Project on Middle East Democracy. Even with the extensive backing of his foreign supporters, though, Mr. Hifter has often struggled for military gains, taking three years to control the city of Benghazi. Although he now controls most of eastern Libya, his surprise advance on Tripoli has united the powerful militias from the western cities of Misrata and Zintan against him. “I don’t think Hifter can do it,” said Lisa Anderson, a political scientist who has studied Libya and who was the president of the American University in Cairo during the uprisings of 2011. Although he may present himself as a strongman, she said, “he can’t actually control that part of the country and he will continue to face existential challenges there for the foreseeable future.”

Supported by By David D. Kirkpatrick President Trump on Friday abruptly reversed American policy toward Libya, issuing a statement publicly endorsing an aspiring strongman in his battle to depose the United Nations-backed government. The would-be strongman, Khalifa Hifter, launched a surprise attack on the Libyan capital, Tripoli, more than two weeks ago. Relief agencies said Thursday that more than 200 people had been killed in the battle, and in recent days Mr. Hifter’s forces have started shelling civilian neighborhoods. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said in a statement a few days after Mr. Hifter’s militia began its attack that “the administration at the highest levels” had made clear that “we oppose the military offensive” and “urge the immediate halt to these military operations.” Most Western governments and the United Nations have also condemned the attack and demanded a retreat. Mr. Trump, however, told Mr. Hifter almost the opposite, the White House said Friday. A militia leader who has given himself the title of Field Marshal, Mr. Hifter, 75, has long sought to portray his fight for power over Libya — including his advance on Tripoli — as a battle against “terrorism.” In the statement on Friday the White House said Mr. Trump had called Mr. Hifter on Monday to endorse that campaign. Mr. Trump called “to discuss ongoing counterterrorism efforts and the need to achieve peace and stability in Libya,” the White House said in the statement. “The President recognized Field Marshal Hifter’s significant role in fighting terrorism and securing Libya’s oil resources, and the two discussed a shared vision for Libya’s transition to a stable, democratic political system.” Analysts said Mr. Trump’s endorsement would embolden Mr. Hifter and hamper United Nations efforts to call for a cease-fire. It could also increase the likelihood that his regional sponsors like Egypt or the United Arab Emirates might intervene on his behalf, as each has in the past in Libya. The policy reversal came as a surprise in part because Mr. Hifter’s forces also appear to be losing ground. His promises of a quick victory have proved false, and his forces appear outmaneuvered by those aligned against them. Most analysts say that he has little hope of exerting his authority over all of Libya any time soon, so his continued campaign may only prolong the country’s instability. In the meantime, the battle for Tripoli has now diverted the attention of most of the Libyan militias that had been engaged in combating the fighters of the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL, said Frederic Wehrey, an expert on Libya at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. “It is nuts,” Mr. Wehrey said of Mr. Trump’s statement. “Even judging by the hard-nosed American goals of stabilizing the flow of oil and combating terrorism, this is completely shocking.” Mr. Trump’s endorsement is the clearest evidence yet of his preference for authoritarianism as the best response to the problems of the Middle East, a sharp departure from the professions of support for democracy by previous American presidents of both parties. Although this is not the first time Mr. Trump has praised an Arab strongman, his expression of support for Mr. Hifter appears to be the first time that Mr. Trump has embraced an aspiring authoritarian who is not yet in power and may never get there. A former general under Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi and also a former C.I.A. client, Mr. Hifter had been living in exile in the United States but returned to Libya during the Arab Spring uprisings in 2011. He first declared his intention to seize power in 2014, when Libya’s nascent transitional government was struggling to establish its authority over freewheeling militias around the country. Mr. Hifter vowed to rid Libya of Islamists of all kinds, and he quickly attracted support from Egypt, the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia. All three had aligned themselves in a regionwide campaign to crush the Muslim Brotherhood-style political movements that had appeared poised to ride Arab Spring elections to power. Mr. Hifter has never shown a willingness to accept any civilian authority. But “he fits to a T the kind of leader Trump likes to support,” said Andrew Miller, deputy director for policy at the Project on Middle East Democracy. Even with the extensive backing of his foreign supporters, though, Mr. Hifter has often struggled for military gains, taking three years to control the city of Benghazi. Although he now controls most of eastern Libya, his surprise advance on Tripoli has united the powerful militias from the western cities of Misrata and Zintan against him. “I don’t think Hifter can do it,” said Lisa Anderson, a political scientist who has studied Libya and who was the president of the American University in Cairo during the uprisings of 2011. Although he may present himself as a strongman, she said, “he can’t actually control that part of the country and he will continue to face existential challenges there for the foreseeable future.”Supported by News Analysis By Peter Baker WASHINGTON — For President Trump, it may have been the best day of his tenure so far. The darkest, most ominous cloud hanging over his presidency was all but lifted on Sunday with the release of the special counsel’s conclusions, which undercut the threat of impeachment and provided him with a powerful boost for the final 22 months of his term. There are still other clouds overhead and no one outside the Justice Department has actually read the report by Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, which may yet disclose damning information if made public. But the end of the investigation without findings of collusion with Russia fortified the president for the battles to come, including his campaign for re-election. While critics will still argue about whether Mr. Trump tried to obstruct justice, the president quickly claimed vindication and Republican allies pounced on their Democratic colleagues for what they called an unrelenting partisan campaign against him. Even as his own party’s congressional leaders called on the country to move on, however, the president indicated that he may not be ready to, denouncing the very existence of Mr. Mueller’s investigation as “an illegal takedown that failed” and calling for a counterinvestigation into how it got started. Emboldened and angry, the president can now proceed with his administration without the distraction of new search warrants and indictments by Mr. Mueller’s team or the worry that the special counsel might charge Mr. Trump’s family members or even uncover a smoking gun that would prove that his campaign collaborated with the Russian government to elect him in 2016. The questions about the Kremlin’s election interference that dogged the president almost everywhere he went may soon fade, even as other investigators continue to look into other allegations. Mr. Mueller’s team confirmed that Russia did try to tilt the election to Mr. Trump, but its conclusion that he did not conspire with the effort may ease the way for Mr. Trump to reorient American foreign policy toward Moscow and its strongman president, Vladimir V. Putin, without as much concern about domestic consequences. And it may give renewed confidence to Mr. Trump, who has complained that his dealings with world leaders have been hobbled by their uncertainty about whether he would survive the investigation. The end of Mr. Mueller’s inquiry also left Democrats on the defensive and will force them to decide how vigorously to continue pursuing allegations of misconduct by the president and his allies, including many that were unexamined by the special counsel, whose mandate was limited to Russia’s interference in the election and any possible obstruction of justice resulting from it. While Mr. Trump claimed that Mr. Mueller’s findings were “a complete and total exoneration,” Mr. Mueller explicitly said they were not. Although he did not establish a conspiracy with Russia, Mr. Mueller made no determination when it came to obstruction of justice. “While this report does not conclude that the president committed a crime, it also does not exonerate him,” he wrote, according to the Justice Department summary sent to Congress. Instead, according to the summary, Mr. Mueller laid out various actions by Mr. Trump that could be seen as obstruction, letting others decide whether they added up to that. William P. Barr, the attorney general recently appointed by Mr. Trump after drafting a private memo expressing doubt that the president could be accused of obstructing justice for exercising his constitutional power, concluded on Sunday that they did not. But the House, controlled by Democrats, has the power under the Constitution to decide for itself whether the president’s actions constituted “high crimes and misdemeanors” that justify impeachment, and it could interpret Mr. Mueller’s evidence the other way once it sees it. The next phase of the story, then, will be the fight by House Democrats to force Mr. Barr to turn over Mr. Mueller’s full report and accompanying evidence, a constitutional battle that could ultimately be resolved in the courts. Until they read the report for themselves, Democrats are hardly going to agree that the president has been cleared. And they will most likely summon Mr. Mueller to testify, which could provide a public airing of Mr. Trump’s actions that, even if not rising to a crime, may not reflect well on the president. Still, Speaker Nancy Pelosi has already said that she did not favor impeachment unless the evidence was “so compelling and overwhelming and bipartisan,” a standard that seems even less likely to be met now. Either way, Mr. Mueller’s investigation has taken its toll on this presidency, leading to indictments, convictions or guilty pleas for a half-dozen of Mr. Trump’s associates, including his campaign chairman and national security adviser, and spawning offshoot investigations. In any other administration, that record alone would be enough to seriously damage a president. Moreover, as Mr. Mueller closes up shop, federal, state and congressional investigators are still examining Mr. Trump’s business, his finances, his inaugural committee and his associates. Federal prosecutors in New York have implicated Mr. Trump in a scheme to violate campaign finance laws by directing hush money to two women to keep them from talking before the 2016 election about alleged extramarital affairs with him. The State of New York forced him to close his foundation after finding a “shocking pattern of illegality.” The House Judiciary Committee has sought documents from 81 people or entities associated with Mr. Trump on a wide variety of topics. But Mr. Mueller had bipartisan stature and credibility that none of the president’s other pursuers have, despite Mr. Trump’s own efforts to tear him down. Now the president who routinely assailed Mr. Mueller and his “13 Angry Democrats” for their “witch hunt” will surely use the results of the special counsel investigation to dismiss all others as part of a pattern of conspiracy mongering and vindictive persecution, whatever the facts may or may not show. He presumably will not convince his many critics of that, but he may reinforce his political base heading into a re-election battle where Mr. Trump’s ethical and legal issues will surely be a major focus of debate. In polls, core Republican voters have already expressed deep skepticism about the allegations against Mr. Trump and the legitimacy of the investigations into them. “Not indicted” or “not impeached” may not have been much of a bumper sticker in times past, but in today’s polarized political environment, each side sees these issues through its own lens. The notion that the system came after Mr. Trump in the form of Mr. Mueller and failed to take him down will fit neatly into the president’s narrative of grievance and victimization, energizing his self-portrayal as a threat to the existing order. For Mr. Trump, that is as good a day as they come. Follow Peter Baker on Twitter: @peterbakernyt.   

Supported by News Analysis By Peter Baker WASHINGTON — For President Trump, it may have been the best day of his tenure so far. The darkest, most ominous cloud hanging over his presidency was all but lifted on Sunday with the release of the special counsel’s conclusions, which undercut the threat of impeachment and provided him with a powerful boost for the final 22 months of his term. There are still other clouds overhead and no one outside the Justice Department has actually read the report by Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, which may yet disclose damning information if made public. But the end of the investigation without findings of collusion with Russia fortified the president for the battles to come, including his campaign for re-election. While critics will still argue about whether Mr. Trump tried to obstruct justice, the president quickly claimed vindication and Republican allies pounced on their Democratic colleagues for what they called an unrelenting partisan campaign against him. Even as his own party’s congressional leaders called on the country to move on, however, the president indicated that he may not be ready to, denouncing the very existence of Mr. Mueller’s investigation as “an illegal takedown that failed” and calling for a counterinvestigation into how it got started. Emboldened and angry, the president can now proceed with his administration without the distraction of new search warrants and indictments by Mr. Mueller’s team or the worry that the special counsel might charge Mr. Trump’s family members or even uncover a smoking gun that would prove that his campaign collaborated with the Russian government to elect him in 2016. The questions about the Kremlin’s election interference that dogged the president almost everywhere he went may soon fade, even as other investigators continue to look into other allegations. Mr. Mueller’s team confirmed that Russia did try to tilt the election to Mr. Trump, but its conclusion that he did not conspire with the effort may ease the way for Mr. Trump to reorient American foreign policy toward Moscow and its strongman president, Vladimir V. Putin, without as much concern about domestic consequences. And it may give renewed confidence to Mr. Trump, who has complained that his dealings with world leaders have been hobbled by their uncertainty about whether he would survive the investigation. The end of Mr. Mueller’s inquiry also left Democrats on the defensive and will force them to decide how vigorously to continue pursuing allegations of misconduct by the president and his allies, including many that were unexamined by the special counsel, whose mandate was limited to Russia’s interference in the election and any possible obstruction of justice resulting from it. While Mr. Trump claimed that Mr. Mueller’s findings were “a complete and total exoneration,” Mr. Mueller explicitly said they were not. Although he did not establish a conspiracy with Russia, Mr. Mueller made no determination when it came to obstruction of justice. “While this report does not conclude that the president committed a crime, it also does not exonerate him,” he wrote, according to the Justice Department summary sent to Congress. Instead, according to the summary, Mr. Mueller laid out various actions by Mr. Trump that could be seen as obstruction, letting others decide whether they added up to that. William P. Barr, the attorney general recently appointed by Mr. Trump after drafting a private memo expressing doubt that the president could be accused of obstructing justice for exercising his constitutional power, concluded on Sunday that they did not. But the House, controlled by Democrats, has the power under the Constitution to decide for itself whether the president’s actions constituted “high crimes and misdemeanors” that justify impeachment, and it could interpret Mr. Mueller’s evidence the other way once it sees it. The next phase of the story, then, will be the fight by House Democrats to force Mr. Barr to turn over Mr. Mueller’s full report and accompanying evidence, a constitutional battle that could ultimately be resolved in the courts. Until they read the report for themselves, Democrats are hardly going to agree that the president has been cleared. And they will most likely summon Mr. Mueller to testify, which could provide a public airing of Mr. Trump’s actions that, even if not rising to a crime, may not reflect well on the president. Still, Speaker Nancy Pelosi has already said that she did not favor impeachment unless the evidence was “so compelling and overwhelming and bipartisan,” a standard that seems even less likely to be met now. Either way, Mr. Mueller’s investigation has taken its toll on this presidency, leading to indictments, convictions or guilty pleas for a half-dozen of Mr. Trump’s associates, including his campaign chairman and national security adviser, and spawning offshoot investigations. In any other administration, that record alone would be enough to seriously damage a president. Moreover, as Mr. Mueller closes up shop, federal, state and congressional investigators are still examining Mr. Trump’s business, his finances, his inaugural committee and his associates. Federal prosecutors in New York have implicated Mr. Trump in a scheme to violate campaign finance laws by directing hush money to two women to keep them from talking before the 2016 election about alleged extramarital affairs with him. The State of New York forced him to close his foundation after finding a “shocking pattern of illegality.” The House Judiciary Committee has sought documents from 81 people or entities associated with Mr. Trump on a wide variety of topics. But Mr. Mueller had bipartisan stature and credibility that none of the president’s other pursuers have, despite Mr. Trump’s own efforts to tear him down. Now the president who routinely assailed Mr. Mueller and his “13 Angry Democrats” for their “witch hunt” will surely use the results of the special counsel investigation to dismiss all others as part of a pattern of conspiracy mongering and vindictive persecution, whatever the facts may or may not show. He presumably will not convince his many critics of that, but he may reinforce his political base heading into a re-election battle where Mr. Trump’s ethical and legal issues will surely be a major focus of debate. In polls, core Republican voters have already expressed deep skepticism about the allegations against Mr. Trump and the legitimacy of the investigations into them. “Not indicted” or “not impeached” may not have been much of a bumper sticker in times past, but in today’s polarized political environment, each side sees these issues through its own lens. The notion that the system came after Mr. Trump in the form of Mr. Mueller and failed to take him down will fit neatly into the president’s narrative of grievance and victimization, energizing his self-portrayal as a threat to the existing order. For Mr. Trump, that is as good a day as they come. Follow Peter Baker on Twitter: @peterbakernyt.   Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — Two House committees subpoenaed Deutsche Bank and several other financial institutions Monday as part of investigations into President Donald Trump's finances. House Intelligence Committee Chairman Adam Schiff, D-Calif., said in a statement that the subpoenas are part of an investigation "into allegations of potential foreign influence on the U.S. political process." Schiff did not name the other financial institutions or describe the subpoenas. House Financial Services Committee Chairwoman Maxine Waters, D-Calif., said in a separate statement that "the potential use of the U.S. financial system for illicit purposes is a very serious concern." She said her committee is looking into those matters, including whether they pertain to Trump. It was unclear exactly what the committees asked for. The investigations are among several House Democrats are conducting into aspects of the president's personal and political life, and Schiff has said he is investigating whether foreign actors, including Russia, have sought to hold leverage over Trump or his family and associates. Eric Trump, the president's son and executive vice president of The Trump Organization, said in a statement released Monday that the subpoenas were "an unprecedented abuse of power and simply the latest attempt by House Democrats to attack the President and our family for political gain." As part of his investigation, Schiff has said he wants to know whether Russians used laundered money for transactions with the Trump Organization. Trump's businesses have benefited from Russian investment over the years. Deutsche Bank is a German asset management firm that has lent Trump's real estate organization millions of dollars over time. The two committees have been working with the bank for several weeks, and both Waters and Schiff have said officials have been cooperative. Schiff said in his statement that the subpoena to Deutsche Bank is a "friendly" subpoena, meaning he expects them to continue working with the committees. The request comes as a third committee, the House Ways and Means Committee, is sparring with the White House over Trump's tax returns. House Ways and Means Chairman Richard Neal, D-Mass., has set a deadline of April 23 for six years of returns. But Trump's acting chief of staff, Mick Mulvaney, has said Democrats will "never" see the returns, "nor should they," and "they know it." __ Associated Press writer Chad Day contributed to this report.

Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — Two House committees subpoenaed Deutsche Bank and several other financial institutions Monday as part of investigations into President Donald Trump's finances. House Intelligence Committee Chairman Adam Schiff, D-Calif., said in a statement that the subpoenas are part of an investigation "into allegations of potential foreign influence on the U.S. political process." Schiff did not name the other financial institutions or describe the subpoenas. House Financial Services Committee Chairwoman Maxine Waters, D-Calif., said in a separate statement that "the potential use of the U.S. financial system for illicit purposes is a very serious concern." She said her committee is looking into those matters, including whether they pertain to Trump. It was unclear exactly what the committees asked for. The investigations are among several House Democrats are conducting into aspects of the president's personal and political life, and Schiff has said he is investigating whether foreign actors, including Russia, have sought to hold leverage over Trump or his family and associates. Eric Trump, the president's son and executive vice president of The Trump Organization, said in a statement released Monday that the subpoenas were "an unprecedented abuse of power and simply the latest attempt by House Democrats to attack the President and our family for political gain." As part of his investigation, Schiff has said he wants to know whether Russians used laundered money for transactions with the Trump Organization. Trump's businesses have benefited from Russian investment over the years. Deutsche Bank is a German asset management firm that has lent Trump's real estate organization millions of dollars over time. The two committees have been working with the bank for several weeks, and both Waters and Schiff have said officials have been cooperative. Schiff said in his statement that the subpoena to Deutsche Bank is a "friendly" subpoena, meaning he expects them to continue working with the committees. The request comes as a third committee, the House Ways and Means Committee, is sparring with the White House over Trump's tax returns. House Ways and Means Chairman Richard Neal, D-Mass., has set a deadline of April 23 for six years of returns. But Trump's acting chief of staff, Mick Mulvaney, has said Democrats will "never" see the returns, "nor should they," and "they know it." __ Associated Press writer Chad Day contributed to this report.Supported by letters Continuing reaction to President Trump’s declaration of a national emergency so he can build a border wall. To the Editor: Re “Trump Calls Emergency, Defying Congress” (front page, Feb. 16): Now is the time for all good men and women to come to the aid of their country. The president has crossed a red line, and the people know it. If you have Republican members of Congress, right now is the time to tell them, in no uncertain terms, that you will absolutely not vote for them in 2020 unless they reject President Trump’s unconstitutional abuse of authority in declaring an emergency when no such emergency exists. The only thing that will change the course of events in this country is when Republicans start to see their power erode and say “no more.” When we promise that their own jobs are on the line unless they stand up to President Trump’s blatant act of autocracy, the tide will turn and we will begin to reclaim our democracy. Republicans, and Americans who have Republican lawmakers, only you can prevent dictatorship. Call your members of Congress today. Peggy Lee ScottBerkeley, Calif. To the Editor: One of the critical pillars of the American system is that we do not use the military to manage the people. Declaring a false emergency to support government by tantrum is the camel’s nose: a powerful step toward the dictatorship that President Trump dreams of.  This is the blatant bridge too far. If Congress fails to remove this clear and present danger, we must put down our pens and our devices and head, peacefully, into the streets. Ann Norvell GrayRichmond, Va. To the Editor: If President Trump were smart, he would focus on a wall that is actually needed: a firewall against foreign intrusion into our data infrastructure. But our cyberspace isn’t a tangible object, like Trump Tower, to which he can point and claim credit. And, after all, its breach is what largely got him elected. Martha D. TrowbridgeNew York To the Editor: Re “A Detailed History of Trump’s Signature Promise, in His Own Words” (graphic, Feb. 17): Your list of President Trump’s promises that Mexico would pay for a border wall parallels earlier lists of President Trump’s many other such promises.  These lists leave us with an overarching question: Did the president know that he was lying — that Mexico would never pay for a wall — in which case he has to be the greatest scoundrel in American political history? Or does he really think that he is uttering actual truths, in which case he is the most delusional person in American political history? Fellow citizens, choose your poison! Manfred WeidhornFair Lawn, N.J.

Supported by letters Continuing reaction to President Trump’s declaration of a national emergency so he can build a border wall. To the Editor: Re “Trump Calls Emergency, Defying Congress” (front page, Feb. 16): Now is the time for all good men and women to come to the aid of their country. The president has crossed a red line, and the people know it. If you have Republican members of Congress, right now is the time to tell them, in no uncertain terms, that you will absolutely not vote for them in 2020 unless they reject President Trump’s unconstitutional abuse of authority in declaring an emergency when no such emergency exists. The only thing that will change the course of events in this country is when Republicans start to see their power erode and say “no more.” When we promise that their own jobs are on the line unless they stand up to President Trump’s blatant act of autocracy, the tide will turn and we will begin to reclaim our democracy. Republicans, and Americans who have Republican lawmakers, only you can prevent dictatorship. Call your members of Congress today. Peggy Lee ScottBerkeley, Calif. To the Editor: One of the critical pillars of the American system is that we do not use the military to manage the people. Declaring a false emergency to support government by tantrum is the camel’s nose: a powerful step toward the dictatorship that President Trump dreams of.  This is the blatant bridge too far. If Congress fails to remove this clear and present danger, we must put down our pens and our devices and head, peacefully, into the streets. Ann Norvell GrayRichmond, Va. To the Editor: If President Trump were smart, he would focus on a wall that is actually needed: a firewall against foreign intrusion into our data infrastructure. But our cyberspace isn’t a tangible object, like Trump Tower, to which he can point and claim credit. And, after all, its breach is what largely got him elected. Martha D. TrowbridgeNew York To the Editor: Re “A Detailed History of Trump’s Signature Promise, in His Own Words” (graphic, Feb. 17): Your list of President Trump’s promises that Mexico would pay for a border wall parallels earlier lists of President Trump’s many other such promises.  These lists leave us with an overarching question: Did the president know that he was lying — that Mexico would never pay for a wall — in which case he has to be the greatest scoundrel in American political history? Or does he really think that he is uttering actual truths, in which case he is the most delusional person in American political history? Fellow citizens, choose your poison! Manfred WeidhornFair Lawn, N.J.Supported by By Ben Casselman For President Trump’s first two years in office, an unexpected rebound in manufacturing jobs helped bolster his claims that he was restoring the United States’ battered industrial sector. Now, that surge may be nearing its end — in part because of his own trade policies. American manufacturers have added nearly half a million jobs since Mr. Trump took office, including for the last 19 months in a row. That streak, the longest since the mid-1990s, could hit 20 when the government releases March hiring data on Friday. But concerns are mounting about how long that strength can continue. Employment growth for the sector in February, at 4,000 jobs, was the weakest in more than a year, and data from the payroll processing firm ADP on Wednesday showed the number of factory workers falling in March. Major automobile manufacturers have been cutting jobs; General Motors drew Mr. Trump’s ire last month when it idled a factory in Lordstown, Ohio, and eliminated 14,000 positions. American manufacturers are being battered from all sides: by tariffs that are driving up their costs, by cooling growth in China and Europe that is hurting demand for their exports, and by the waning effects of the tax cuts and government spending increases that pumped up growth last year. Data from the Commerce Department on Tuesday showed that orders for capital goods, a key measure of business investment, fell in February and have trended down since last summer. “We should expect to see manufacturing growth slow quite significantly,” said Andrew Hunter, an economist at Capital Economics, a research firm. [Trump owns the economy now, for better or worse] American factories aren’t grinding to a halt. A closely watched survey from the Institute of Supply Management hit a three-year low in February but rebounded somewhat in March. Recent data from China suggests that the government’s efforts to stimulate the economy there are beginning to have an effect. And financial markets rallied Wednesday, and continued to rise Thursday, on hopes that the United States and China could be nearing a trade deal. Strong economic underpinnings — low unemployment, rising wages, high levels of consumer confidence — make an outright collapse in manufacturing unlikely. Still, businesses are becoming more cautious, which could spell trouble for the broader economy. At Gradall Industries, an Ohio manufacturer of excavators and other heavy equipment for the manufacturing industry, orders have been strong this year, according to Michael A. Haberman, the company’s president. But business in China is down sharply, tariffs are driving up costs, and Mr. Haberman has given up on the infrastructure spending package he hoped would spur demand for Gradall’s equipment. “Obviously, Europe’s not doing that well, and China is clearly in a slowdown, so there has to be a concern,” he said. Faced with that uncertainty, Mr. Haberman wavered before making a long-needed investment in a new robot welder this year. He eventually went ahead with that purchase, but he has postponed other investments — lasers for steel cutting, new machining equipment, additional robot welders. “You need certainty if you’re going to spend that kind of money,” he said. “And I don’t think anybody feels very comfortable.” Any slowdown poses a political risk for Mr. Trump, who ran for office on promises to bring jobs back from China and Mexico and who has repeatedly promoted the sector’s growth as evidence that his policies are working. “I guess I found the MAGIC WAND,” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter in January. Most economists say credit for the recent rebound in manufacturing lies less with Mr. Trump than with global forces beyond his control. Manufacturing underwent what amounted to a mini-recession in 2015 and early 2016, caused by low energy and commodity prices that hurt the energy and agriculture sectors. By mid-2016, those trends were starting to reverse, just as major economies around the world were beginning to expand in sync for the first time in a decade. Business confidence did rise after Mr. Trump’s election. And the Republican tax cuts passed in late 2017 were intended to give companies an incentive to invest, although there has been little evidence of that so far. The tax cuts, along with increases in government spending, also provided a short-term lift to the economy that benefited manufacturers along with other companies. But those forces are fading. Economic growth cooled in late 2018 and is likely to slow further this year, in part because American exporters are likely to see less demand from customers overseas. China’s economy has lost momentum in recent months, and Britain’s protracted negotiations on leaving the European Union are taking a toll in Europe. Recent data from Germany, Europe’s largest economy, suggests the country is flirting with recession. Mr. Trump’s trade policies are contributing to the sector’s woes. Tariffs on steel and aluminum imposed last year led to increased employment at American steel plants, but raised costs for companies that use the metals. Mr. Trump’s slow-moving trade war with China has raised costs, disrupted supply chains and created uncertainty for American importers and exporters alike. Winnebago Industries, the Iowa-based maker of motor homes, gets most of its steel and aluminum from American suppliers. But that has not spared the company from the effects of tariffs, which have driven up prices for domestic and imported metals alike. Tariffs on Chinese goods have led to higher prices for electrical components, lighting fixtures, tires and other parts the company imports. So far, Winnebago has largely been able to pass those costs on to customers, said Michael Happe, Winnebago’s chief executive. But he isn’t sure how long that will last. Higher interest rates are already making financing more expensive, and stock market volatility could give customers pause. Winnebago announced in February that it would close a plant in Junction City, Ore., and move production to an existing factory in Iowa. Mr. Happe said the decision, which will eliminate more than 200 jobs in Oregon, was not entirely due to economic forces. But he said evidence that growth was slowing was a significant factor. “Certainly as the headwinds stack up and get a little bit stiffer, we pay more attention to that and we’re probably even more careful, more disciplined, more methodical about determining when and how much to spend on our future,” he said. So far, there is little evidence of a renewed wave of factory layoffs. If anything, companies are complaining they cannot find enough workers to fill the jobs they have available. United Grinding, a Swiss maker of machine tools for the aerospace and other industries, has seen slowing growth in Europe and Asia. But the United States has so far escaped a similar fate, said Steve Jacobson, who runs the company’s Ohio-based American subsidiary. “North America is still the shining star,” he said. “Even though we hear a lot about the slowdown, we don’t see the slowdown yet across any part of our business.” Still, the company is stepping up its marketing efforts to guard against any falloff in demand. United Grinding’s business depends on other manufacturers having the confidence to keep investing — and confidence can turn quickly. If one company decides to delay a big purchase, that can have a ripple effect. “Then 10 more people wait, and then 20 more people wait, and then, lo and behold, we have a slowdown,” Mr. Jacobson said. “I look at it as more of a self-fulfilling prophecy.” It isn’t clear whether blue-collar voters will hold Mr. Trump responsible for a slowdown. Leo Gerard, the president of the United Steelworkers Union, said his members appreciated the president’s decision to impose tariffs on foreign steel. And even in industries hurt by the tariffs, many workers say they support Mr. Trump’s get-tough approach to trade talks with China. But Mr. Gerard said workers had been rattled by the closing of G.M.’s Lordstown plant. And despite two years of job growth, he said, the bigger picture for American manufacturing has not changed: The trade deficit is growing, companies are still shifting jobs to Mexico, and even Carrier — the Indiana furnace maker — has not added the jobs that Mr. Trump promised with great fanfare in 2016. “We don’t see any growth or expansion at Carrier,” Mr. Gerard said. “The president is the president, and he didn’t stop what G.M. is doing.”   

Supported by By Ben Casselman For President Trump’s first two years in office, an unexpected rebound in manufacturing jobs helped bolster his claims that he was restoring the United States’ battered industrial sector. Now, that surge may be nearing its end — in part because of his own trade policies. American manufacturers have added nearly half a million jobs since Mr. Trump took office, including for the last 19 months in a row. That streak, the longest since the mid-1990s, could hit 20 when the government releases March hiring data on Friday. But concerns are mounting about how long that strength can continue. Employment growth for the sector in February, at 4,000 jobs, was the weakest in more than a year, and data from the payroll processing firm ADP on Wednesday showed the number of factory workers falling in March. Major automobile manufacturers have been cutting jobs; General Motors drew Mr. Trump’s ire last month when it idled a factory in Lordstown, Ohio, and eliminated 14,000 positions. American manufacturers are being battered from all sides: by tariffs that are driving up their costs, by cooling growth in China and Europe that is hurting demand for their exports, and by the waning effects of the tax cuts and government spending increases that pumped up growth last year. Data from the Commerce Department on Tuesday showed that orders for capital goods, a key measure of business investment, fell in February and have trended down since last summer. “We should expect to see manufacturing growth slow quite significantly,” said Andrew Hunter, an economist at Capital Economics, a research firm. [Trump owns the economy now, for better or worse] American factories aren’t grinding to a halt. A closely watched survey from the Institute of Supply Management hit a three-year low in February but rebounded somewhat in March. Recent data from China suggests that the government’s efforts to stimulate the economy there are beginning to have an effect. And financial markets rallied Wednesday, and continued to rise Thursday, on hopes that the United States and China could be nearing a trade deal. Strong economic underpinnings — low unemployment, rising wages, high levels of consumer confidence — make an outright collapse in manufacturing unlikely. Still, businesses are becoming more cautious, which could spell trouble for the broader economy. At Gradall Industries, an Ohio manufacturer of excavators and other heavy equipment for the manufacturing industry, orders have been strong this year, according to Michael A. Haberman, the company’s president. But business in China is down sharply, tariffs are driving up costs, and Mr. Haberman has given up on the infrastructure spending package he hoped would spur demand for Gradall’s equipment. “Obviously, Europe’s not doing that well, and China is clearly in a slowdown, so there has to be a concern,” he said. Faced with that uncertainty, Mr. Haberman wavered before making a long-needed investment in a new robot welder this year. He eventually went ahead with that purchase, but he has postponed other investments — lasers for steel cutting, new machining equipment, additional robot welders. “You need certainty if you’re going to spend that kind of money,” he said. “And I don’t think anybody feels very comfortable.” Any slowdown poses a political risk for Mr. Trump, who ran for office on promises to bring jobs back from China and Mexico and who has repeatedly promoted the sector’s growth as evidence that his policies are working. “I guess I found the MAGIC WAND,” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter in January. Most economists say credit for the recent rebound in manufacturing lies less with Mr. Trump than with global forces beyond his control. Manufacturing underwent what amounted to a mini-recession in 2015 and early 2016, caused by low energy and commodity prices that hurt the energy and agriculture sectors. By mid-2016, those trends were starting to reverse, just as major economies around the world were beginning to expand in sync for the first time in a decade. Business confidence did rise after Mr. Trump’s election. And the Republican tax cuts passed in late 2017 were intended to give companies an incentive to invest, although there has been little evidence of that so far. The tax cuts, along with increases in government spending, also provided a short-term lift to the economy that benefited manufacturers along with other companies. But those forces are fading. Economic growth cooled in late 2018 and is likely to slow further this year, in part because American exporters are likely to see less demand from customers overseas. China’s economy has lost momentum in recent months, and Britain’s protracted negotiations on leaving the European Union are taking a toll in Europe. Recent data from Germany, Europe’s largest economy, suggests the country is flirting with recession. Mr. Trump’s trade policies are contributing to the sector’s woes. Tariffs on steel and aluminum imposed last year led to increased employment at American steel plants, but raised costs for companies that use the metals. Mr. Trump’s slow-moving trade war with China has raised costs, disrupted supply chains and created uncertainty for American importers and exporters alike. Winnebago Industries, the Iowa-based maker of motor homes, gets most of its steel and aluminum from American suppliers. But that has not spared the company from the effects of tariffs, which have driven up prices for domestic and imported metals alike. Tariffs on Chinese goods have led to higher prices for electrical components, lighting fixtures, tires and other parts the company imports. So far, Winnebago has largely been able to pass those costs on to customers, said Michael Happe, Winnebago’s chief executive. But he isn’t sure how long that will last. Higher interest rates are already making financing more expensive, and stock market volatility could give customers pause. Winnebago announced in February that it would close a plant in Junction City, Ore., and move production to an existing factory in Iowa. Mr. Happe said the decision, which will eliminate more than 200 jobs in Oregon, was not entirely due to economic forces. But he said evidence that growth was slowing was a significant factor. “Certainly as the headwinds stack up and get a little bit stiffer, we pay more attention to that and we’re probably even more careful, more disciplined, more methodical about determining when and how much to spend on our future,” he said. So far, there is little evidence of a renewed wave of factory layoffs. If anything, companies are complaining they cannot find enough workers to fill the jobs they have available. United Grinding, a Swiss maker of machine tools for the aerospace and other industries, has seen slowing growth in Europe and Asia. But the United States has so far escaped a similar fate, said Steve Jacobson, who runs the company’s Ohio-based American subsidiary. “North America is still the shining star,” he said. “Even though we hear a lot about the slowdown, we don’t see the slowdown yet across any part of our business.” Still, the company is stepping up its marketing efforts to guard against any falloff in demand. United Grinding’s business depends on other manufacturers having the confidence to keep investing — and confidence can turn quickly. If one company decides to delay a big purchase, that can have a ripple effect. “Then 10 more people wait, and then 20 more people wait, and then, lo and behold, we have a slowdown,” Mr. Jacobson said. “I look at it as more of a self-fulfilling prophecy.” It isn’t clear whether blue-collar voters will hold Mr. Trump responsible for a slowdown. Leo Gerard, the president of the United Steelworkers Union, said his members appreciated the president’s decision to impose tariffs on foreign steel. And even in industries hurt by the tariffs, many workers say they support Mr. Trump’s get-tough approach to trade talks with China. But Mr. Gerard said workers had been rattled by the closing of G.M.’s Lordstown plant. And despite two years of job growth, he said, the bigger picture for American manufacturing has not changed: The trade deficit is growing, companies are still shifting jobs to Mexico, and even Carrier — the Indiana furnace maker — has not added the jobs that Mr. Trump promised with great fanfare in 2016. “We don’t see any growth or expansion at Carrier,” Mr. Gerard said. “The president is the president, and he didn’t stop what G.M. is doing.”   Supported by What a brave Jew at a Nazi rally in New York tells us about our times. By Roger Cohen Opinion Columnist His name is Isadore Greenbaum. He’s a Jew, a plumber’s helper from Brooklyn. He rushes onto the stage, beneath a portrait of George Washington flanked by swastikas. He tries to accost the Nazi who is denouncing the “Jewish-controlled press” and calling for a “white gentile-ruled” United States. Uniformed storm troopers beat him. Police officers drag him from the stage, pants ripped, arms raised in desperate entreaty. The mob howls in delight. It’s Feb. 20, 1939. More than 20,000 Nazi sympathizers are packed into Madison Square Garden as Greenbaum attempts to silence Fritz Kuhn, Bundesführer (so-called) of the German American Bund. Greenbaum has been enraged by Kuhn’s demand that the country be delivered from Jewish clutches and “returned to the American people who founded it.” The 26-year-old Jew is brought before a magistrate who, according to an account in this newspaper, tells him that “innocent people might have been killed.” To which Greenbaum retorts, “Do you realize that plenty of Jewish people might be killed with their persecution up there?” “Plenty” is an inadequate word for six million, but that was 1939 and human beings tend not to imagine the unimaginable. The pale, dismayed face of the young Jewish boy, arms raised, being rounded up in the Warsaw ghetto in 1943 is well known. Greenbaum’s expression of terrorized anguish in New York City presages it. All this is caught in Marshall Curry’s remarkable Oscar-nominated documentary short, “A Night at the Garden,” composed of footage from the time. Attacks on the press; the take-back-our-country cry; hymns to the true American (or German): There’s not much new, as Curry notes, about fascism. The movie brings to mind a phrase of Hannah Arendt’s that has haunted me about how most people will comply under conditions of terror but some will not: “No more is required,” she wrote, “and no more can reasonably be asked, for this planet to remain a place fit for human habitation.” Think the “Tank Man” of Tiananmen Square. Think Anton Schmid, the sergeant in Hitler’s army who helped Jews in the Vilnius ghetto and was executed in 1942. Think Ron Ridenhour, the helicopter gunner in Vietnam spurred by conscience to gather information that led to the official investigation into the My Lai massacre. Think Isadore Greenbaum. It is of the essence of such gestures that they appear futile, yet have the power to redeem humanity. Our age, too, is one of demagogues. What are we to make of our “ivory-gold colossus” — James Lasdun’s phrase in his brilliant new novel of the #MeToo era, “Afternoon of a Faun”? This colossus “at once menacing and cosmically aggrieved” who for two hours perorates before the Conservative Political Action Conference (only would-be or actual dictators afflicted with narcissistic disorders talk for that long) and declares: “I’m in love, and you’re in love. We’re all in love together.” Who, for President Trump, are his people in love? They are “our people.” Now, “our people” are not synonymous with the American people. This president, unlike his predecessors, has never seen himself as the president of all Americans. No, they are the CPAC crowd, his fans. They are the “tough people,” the people who could make things “very bad” if necessary — police and military and bikers who, the president claimed in an interview with Breitbart News this month, support him. He needs people in his thrall, like that Madison Square Garden crowd. As Lasdun wrote, “Nothing short of dominion over the entire universe could compensate for the wrongs done to him.” The wrongs, that is, of journalists, judges and Hollywood directors — anyone who thinks the president might just be a dangerous white nationalist charlatan. Why think that? Because Trump, from Day 1, has maligned brown people and Muslims; and, as president, he saw “very fine people on both sides” at the 2017 Charlottesville rally where white nationalists chanted “Jews will not replace us” and a woman who protested, Heather Heyer, was killed. I am not suggesting Trump resembles Hitler. That should be obvious — but not so obvious that I will refrain from writing this column. The white nationalist mass murderer of Muslims in New Zealand was not out of his mind in seeing Trump as a symbol of “renewed white identity and common purpose.” Trump’s love affair is with revanchist white people who don’t like the demographic look of the 21st century. Throughout the world today, from Saudi Arabia to the Philippines, from Guatemala to North Korea, bad things happen because the Trump administration winks at them. The United States as moral guardian, however flawed, has vanished. It’s not that Trump could be dangerous. He is dangerous. People die because the worst leaders know they enjoy the American president’s connivance. The debate on whether Trump is harmless, whether we should laugh away his grotesquerie, is misplaced. I have no doubt that the worst is yet to come. In his own mind, whatever the Mueller report contains, Trump cannot lose. Greenbaum and his wife moved to Southern California. A fisherman at Newport Pier, Greenbaum died in 1997. There was, as Philip Bump observed in The Washington Post, “a brief mention of his passing in the local news.” The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Roger Cohen has been a columnist for The Times since 2009. His columns appear Wednesday and Saturday. He joined The Times in 1990, and has served as a foreign correspondent and foreign editor.  @NYTimesCohen 

Supported by What a brave Jew at a Nazi rally in New York tells us about our times. By Roger Cohen Opinion Columnist His name is Isadore Greenbaum. He’s a Jew, a plumber’s helper from Brooklyn. He rushes onto the stage, beneath a portrait of George Washington flanked by swastikas. He tries to accost the Nazi who is denouncing the “Jewish-controlled press” and calling for a “white gentile-ruled” United States. Uniformed storm troopers beat him. Police officers drag him from the stage, pants ripped, arms raised in desperate entreaty. The mob howls in delight. It’s Feb. 20, 1939. More than 20,000 Nazi sympathizers are packed into Madison Square Garden as Greenbaum attempts to silence Fritz Kuhn, Bundesführer (so-called) of the German American Bund. Greenbaum has been enraged by Kuhn’s demand that the country be delivered from Jewish clutches and “returned to the American people who founded it.” The 26-year-old Jew is brought before a magistrate who, according to an account in this newspaper, tells him that “innocent people might have been killed.” To which Greenbaum retorts, “Do you realize that plenty of Jewish people might be killed with their persecution up there?” “Plenty” is an inadequate word for six million, but that was 1939 and human beings tend not to imagine the unimaginable. The pale, dismayed face of the young Jewish boy, arms raised, being rounded up in the Warsaw ghetto in 1943 is well known. Greenbaum’s expression of terrorized anguish in New York City presages it. All this is caught in Marshall Curry’s remarkable Oscar-nominated documentary short, “A Night at the Garden,” composed of footage from the time. Attacks on the press; the take-back-our-country cry; hymns to the true American (or German): There’s not much new, as Curry notes, about fascism. The movie brings to mind a phrase of Hannah Arendt’s that has haunted me about how most people will comply under conditions of terror but some will not: “No more is required,” she wrote, “and no more can reasonably be asked, for this planet to remain a place fit for human habitation.” Think the “Tank Man” of Tiananmen Square. Think Anton Schmid, the sergeant in Hitler’s army who helped Jews in the Vilnius ghetto and was executed in 1942. Think Ron Ridenhour, the helicopter gunner in Vietnam spurred by conscience to gather information that led to the official investigation into the My Lai massacre. Think Isadore Greenbaum. It is of the essence of such gestures that they appear futile, yet have the power to redeem humanity. Our age, too, is one of demagogues. What are we to make of our “ivory-gold colossus” — James Lasdun’s phrase in his brilliant new novel of the #MeToo era, “Afternoon of a Faun”? This colossus “at once menacing and cosmically aggrieved” who for two hours perorates before the Conservative Political Action Conference (only would-be or actual dictators afflicted with narcissistic disorders talk for that long) and declares: “I’m in love, and you’re in love. We’re all in love together.” Who, for President Trump, are his people in love? They are “our people.” Now, “our people” are not synonymous with the American people. This president, unlike his predecessors, has never seen himself as the president of all Americans. No, they are the CPAC crowd, his fans. They are the “tough people,” the people who could make things “very bad” if necessary — police and military and bikers who, the president claimed in an interview with Breitbart News this month, support him. He needs people in his thrall, like that Madison Square Garden crowd. As Lasdun wrote, “Nothing short of dominion over the entire universe could compensate for the wrongs done to him.” The wrongs, that is, of journalists, judges and Hollywood directors — anyone who thinks the president might just be a dangerous white nationalist charlatan. Why think that? Because Trump, from Day 1, has maligned brown people and Muslims; and, as president, he saw “very fine people on both sides” at the 2017 Charlottesville rally where white nationalists chanted “Jews will not replace us” and a woman who protested, Heather Heyer, was killed. I am not suggesting Trump resembles Hitler. That should be obvious — but not so obvious that I will refrain from writing this column. The white nationalist mass murderer of Muslims in New Zealand was not out of his mind in seeing Trump as a symbol of “renewed white identity and common purpose.” Trump’s love affair is with revanchist white people who don’t like the demographic look of the 21st century. Throughout the world today, from Saudi Arabia to the Philippines, from Guatemala to North Korea, bad things happen because the Trump administration winks at them. The United States as moral guardian, however flawed, has vanished. It’s not that Trump could be dangerous. He is dangerous. People die because the worst leaders know they enjoy the American president’s connivance. The debate on whether Trump is harmless, whether we should laugh away his grotesquerie, is misplaced. I have no doubt that the worst is yet to come. In his own mind, whatever the Mueller report contains, Trump cannot lose. Greenbaum and his wife moved to Southern California. A fisherman at Newport Pier, Greenbaum died in 1997. There was, as Philip Bump observed in The Washington Post, “a brief mention of his passing in the local news.” The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Roger Cohen has been a columnist for The Times since 2009. His columns appear Wednesday and Saturday. He joined The Times in 1990, and has served as a foreign correspondent and foreign editor.  @NYTimesCohen Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump isn't backing down from his tweets about Democratic Rep. Ilhan Omar, one of the first Muslim women to serve in Congress. In fact, he spoke at an event in Omar's home state of Minnesota on Monday amid a ferocious fight over her comments about the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. Omar, a Somali-American, says it's more than a rhetorical squabble, and that lives, including hers, are at stake. Trump says national security is at issue and Omar is "ungrateful." A look at the latest rhetorical battle between the pair that's more broadly about race and whether leaders and their words should be blamed for violence. ___ THE AFTERSHOCKS Omar says she's faced increased death threats since Trump spread around a video that purports to show her being dismissive of the 2001 terrorist attacks. "This is endangering lives," she said, accusing Trump of fomenting extremism. "It has to stop." Her statement late Sunday followed an announcement by House Speaker Nancy Pelosi that she has taken steps to ensure the safety of the Minnesota Democrat. Pelosi also urged Trump to take down the video. The video soon disappeared as a pinned tweet at the top of Trump's Twitter feed, but it was not deleted. Trump further escalated his rhetoric Monday morning, tweeting that, "Before Nancy, who has lost all control of Congress and is getting nothing done, decides to defend her leader, Rep. Omar, she should look at the anti-Semitic, anti-Israel and ungrateful U.S. HATE statements Omar has made." Later Monday, Trump announced he was heading to "the Great State of Minnesota!" Omar responded by retweeting that post with the comment, "The Great State of Minnesota, where we don't only welcome immigrants, we send them to Washington." Minnesota has the largest concentration of Somalis in the nation, and most of those are in the Minneapolis area. On Monday at the London School of Economics and Political Science, Pelosi said: "I don't think any president of the United States should use the tragedy of 9/11 as a political tool. I think that is wrong, I think it's beneath the dignity of the office." ___ WHAT OMAR SAID Omar told a Los Angeles gathering of the Council on American-Islamic Relations on March 23 that many Muslims saw their civil liberties eroded after the Sept. 11 attacks. "For far too long we have lived with the discomfort of being a second-class citizen and, frankly, I'm tired of it, and every single Muslim in this country should be tired of it," she said in the speech, according to video posted online. "CAIR was founded after 9/11, because they recognized that some people did something and that all of us were starting to lose access to our civil liberties." CAIR was founded in 1994, according to its website, but its membership skyrocketed after the attacks. ___ HOW TRUMP REACTED The president on Friday retweeted a video that pulled "some people did something" from Omar's speech and included news footage of the hijacked planes hitting the Twin Towers. Trump also tweeted, "WE WILL NEVER FORGET!" The president elevated criticism largely from Omar's political opponents and conservatives who say Omar's phrasing offered a flippant description of the assailants and the attacks that killed nearly 3,000 people. Neither Trump's tweet nor the video included Omar's full quote or the context of her comments. In Minnesota, Trump kept his remarks at a trucking company in Burnsville mostly focused on the 2017 GOP-passed tax cut. ___ WHO ECHOED TRUMP Other prominent GOP voices joined Trump in criticizing Omar. "First Member of Congress to ever describe terrorists who killed thousands of Americans on 9/11 as 'some people who did something,'" tweeted Rep. Dan Crenshaw, R-Texas. The retired Navy SEAL lost his right eye in 2012 in an explosion in Afghanistan. "Here's your something," the New York Post blared on a cover beneath a photograph of the flaming towers. Fox News Channel host Brian Kilmeade said on a "Fox & Friends" segment on Omar, "You have to wonder if she's an American first." ___ LIFE AND DEATH... Omar has been the target of threats in the past. She tweeted back at Kilmeade and Crenshaw: "This is dangerous incitement, given the death threats I face." "My love and commitment to our country and that of my colleagues should never be in question. We are ALL Americans!" An upstate New York man was charged recently with making death threats against her. ___ SAFETY Members of the Congressional Black Caucus said in a conference call Monday they are concerned for Omar's safety, especially as Trump campaigned in Minnesota. Chairwoman Karen Bass said whipping up "outrage" over Omar "further puts her life in danger." Added House Homeland Security Chairman Bennie Thompson: "Members of Congress should be free to give their opinions on subjects without fear of threat of bodily harm." "I'm concerned about it and the notion that, if your thinking is different from the president's, you become a target." ___ Associated Press Writer Errin Haines Whack contributed to this report. ___

Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump isn't backing down from his tweets about Democratic Rep. Ilhan Omar, one of the first Muslim women to serve in Congress. In fact, he spoke at an event in Omar's home state of Minnesota on Monday amid a ferocious fight over her comments about the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. Omar, a Somali-American, says it's more than a rhetorical squabble, and that lives, including hers, are at stake. Trump says national security is at issue and Omar is "ungrateful." A look at the latest rhetorical battle between the pair that's more broadly about race and whether leaders and their words should be blamed for violence. ___ THE AFTERSHOCKS Omar says she's faced increased death threats since Trump spread around a video that purports to show her being dismissive of the 2001 terrorist attacks. "This is endangering lives," she said, accusing Trump of fomenting extremism. "It has to stop." Her statement late Sunday followed an announcement by House Speaker Nancy Pelosi that she has taken steps to ensure the safety of the Minnesota Democrat. Pelosi also urged Trump to take down the video. The video soon disappeared as a pinned tweet at the top of Trump's Twitter feed, but it was not deleted. Trump further escalated his rhetoric Monday morning, tweeting that, "Before Nancy, who has lost all control of Congress and is getting nothing done, decides to defend her leader, Rep. Omar, she should look at the anti-Semitic, anti-Israel and ungrateful U.S. HATE statements Omar has made." Later Monday, Trump announced he was heading to "the Great State of Minnesota!" Omar responded by retweeting that post with the comment, "The Great State of Minnesota, where we don't only welcome immigrants, we send them to Washington." Minnesota has the largest concentration of Somalis in the nation, and most of those are in the Minneapolis area. On Monday at the London School of Economics and Political Science, Pelosi said: "I don't think any president of the United States should use the tragedy of 9/11 as a political tool. I think that is wrong, I think it's beneath the dignity of the office." ___ WHAT OMAR SAID Omar told a Los Angeles gathering of the Council on American-Islamic Relations on March 23 that many Muslims saw their civil liberties eroded after the Sept. 11 attacks. "For far too long we have lived with the discomfort of being a second-class citizen and, frankly, I'm tired of it, and every single Muslim in this country should be tired of it," she said in the speech, according to video posted online. "CAIR was founded after 9/11, because they recognized that some people did something and that all of us were starting to lose access to our civil liberties." CAIR was founded in 1994, according to its website, but its membership skyrocketed after the attacks. ___ HOW TRUMP REACTED The president on Friday retweeted a video that pulled "some people did something" from Omar's speech and included news footage of the hijacked planes hitting the Twin Towers. Trump also tweeted, "WE WILL NEVER FORGET!" The president elevated criticism largely from Omar's political opponents and conservatives who say Omar's phrasing offered a flippant description of the assailants and the attacks that killed nearly 3,000 people. Neither Trump's tweet nor the video included Omar's full quote or the context of her comments. In Minnesota, Trump kept his remarks at a trucking company in Burnsville mostly focused on the 2017 GOP-passed tax cut. ___ WHO ECHOED TRUMP Other prominent GOP voices joined Trump in criticizing Omar. "First Member of Congress to ever describe terrorists who killed thousands of Americans on 9/11 as 'some people who did something,'" tweeted Rep. Dan Crenshaw, R-Texas. The retired Navy SEAL lost his right eye in 2012 in an explosion in Afghanistan. "Here's your something," the New York Post blared on a cover beneath a photograph of the flaming towers. Fox News Channel host Brian Kilmeade said on a "Fox & Friends" segment on Omar, "You have to wonder if she's an American first." ___ LIFE AND DEATH... Omar has been the target of threats in the past. She tweeted back at Kilmeade and Crenshaw: "This is dangerous incitement, given the death threats I face." "My love and commitment to our country and that of my colleagues should never be in question. We are ALL Americans!" An upstate New York man was charged recently with making death threats against her. ___ SAFETY Members of the Congressional Black Caucus said in a conference call Monday they are concerned for Omar's safety, especially as Trump campaigned in Minnesota. Chairwoman Karen Bass said whipping up "outrage" over Omar "further puts her life in danger." Added House Homeland Security Chairman Bennie Thompson: "Members of Congress should be free to give their opinions on subjects without fear of threat of bodily harm." "I'm concerned about it and the notion that, if your thinking is different from the president's, you become a target." ___ Associated Press Writer Errin Haines Whack contributed to this report. ___Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — The chairman of the House oversight committee said Friday he intends to subpoena President Donald Trump's accountant for his financial records. Rep. Elijah Cummings, D-Md., told committee members in a letter that Mazars USA wouldn't turn over records for Trump, his company and related entities without a subpoena. Cummings said he expected to issue the subpoena Monday for statements of financial condition, independent auditor's reports, annual statements and other documents spanning from 2011 to 2018. Mazars said it "will respect the legal process and fully comply with its legal obligations." The firm said it does not comment to the media about its work for clients. A message seeking comment was left with Trump's company, the Trump Organization. Cummings' announcement that he intends to subpoena Trump's financial records came two days after the Treasury Department missed a deadline to deliver Trump's tax returns to the House Ways and Means Committee chairman. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin told that committee's chairman, Richard Neal, D-Mass., in a letter Wednesday that the department hasn't decided whether to comply. Neal asked for Trump's returns a week ago. Cummings said his request was prompted by ex-Trump lawyer Michael Cohen's testimony in February that Trump overstated his wealth before becoming president. Cohen gave the committee copies of financial statements that he says Trump provided to Deutsche Bank during a 2014 attempt to buy the Buffalo Bills. The documents showed Trump's net worth soared from $4.55 billion in 2012 to $8.66 billion in 2013 because of the addition of a line item for $4 billion worth of "brand value"— essentially the value Trump placed on his name. The oversight committee sent a letter to Mazars on March 20 requesting information on how those financial statements and other disclosure documents were prepared. Mazars responded March 27 that it could not provide the records without a Congressional subpoena. The same day, the committee's top Republican sent a letter to Mazars claiming that Cummings' request exceeded the committee's legislative authority. The request "does not appear to have a valid legislative purpose and instead seems to seek information to embarrass a private individual," Rep. Jim Jordan, R-Ohio, wrote. Cummings criticized Jordan in his letter Friday, calling his actions "troubling" and saying that they worked to undermine the committee's authority and impair its investigations. Jordan shot back in a statement, saying Cummings could've held a vote on the subpoena this week but instead waited until committee members left Washington for the Easter break to seek their input. He called the move to subpoena financial records from Trump's accountant "an astonishing abuse" of the committee's authority and a "disgraceful departure" from fair and legitimate oversight.

Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — The chairman of the House oversight committee said Friday he intends to subpoena President Donald Trump's accountant for his financial records. Rep. Elijah Cummings, D-Md., told committee members in a letter that Mazars USA wouldn't turn over records for Trump, his company and related entities without a subpoena. Cummings said he expected to issue the subpoena Monday for statements of financial condition, independent auditor's reports, annual statements and other documents spanning from 2011 to 2018. Mazars said it "will respect the legal process and fully comply with its legal obligations." The firm said it does not comment to the media about its work for clients. A message seeking comment was left with Trump's company, the Trump Organization. Cummings' announcement that he intends to subpoena Trump's financial records came two days after the Treasury Department missed a deadline to deliver Trump's tax returns to the House Ways and Means Committee chairman. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin told that committee's chairman, Richard Neal, D-Mass., in a letter Wednesday that the department hasn't decided whether to comply. Neal asked for Trump's returns a week ago. Cummings said his request was prompted by ex-Trump lawyer Michael Cohen's testimony in February that Trump overstated his wealth before becoming president. Cohen gave the committee copies of financial statements that he says Trump provided to Deutsche Bank during a 2014 attempt to buy the Buffalo Bills. The documents showed Trump's net worth soared from $4.55 billion in 2012 to $8.66 billion in 2013 because of the addition of a line item for $4 billion worth of "brand value"— essentially the value Trump placed on his name. The oversight committee sent a letter to Mazars on March 20 requesting information on how those financial statements and other disclosure documents were prepared. Mazars responded March 27 that it could not provide the records without a Congressional subpoena. The same day, the committee's top Republican sent a letter to Mazars claiming that Cummings' request exceeded the committee's legislative authority. The request "does not appear to have a valid legislative purpose and instead seems to seek information to embarrass a private individual," Rep. Jim Jordan, R-Ohio, wrote. Cummings criticized Jordan in his letter Friday, calling his actions "troubling" and saying that they worked to undermine the committee's authority and impair its investigations. Jordan shot back in a statement, saying Cummings could've held a vote on the subpoena this week but instead waited until committee members left Washington for the Easter break to seek their input. He called the move to subpoena financial records from Trump's accountant "an astonishing abuse" of the committee's authority and a "disgraceful departure" from fair and legitimate oversight.Supported by By Glenn Thrush WASHINGTON — President Trump was walking through the Capitol corridors in February, en route to his State of the Union address, when he spied Mitch McConnell, the taciturn Senate majority leader, and rumbled over to deliver his signature verbal high-five. “Mitch!” Mr. Trump said in a voice loud enough to be heard by a Republican aide pinned against a nearby wall. “I just saw you on Fox! You were totally great with Martha MacCallum!” he added, referring to a prespeech TV appearance in which he denounced the shutdown Mr. Trump initiated against his advice. Mr. McConnell, of Kentucky, who grumbled in private about Mr. Trump’s decision, managed a laugh. The senator, allergic to public glad-handing, would have preferred a more substantive interaction. He had spent much of that week urging Mr. Trump, unsuccessfully, to abandon his plan to declare a national emergency at the border with Mexico to secure wall funds that Congress had denied him. But the exchange captured the essence of an awkward, compulsory yet increasingly close working relationship between two men divided by temperament but Krazy Glued together by shared self-interest. Over the last six months, necessity has cast Mr. McConnell into a new role — as one of the president’s most important counselors, upping the pace and intensity of his one-on-one interactions. Nowadays, he speaks with Mr. Trump nearly every day and far more frequently during times of crisis, according to interviews with two dozen lawmakers, White House aides and administration officials. “The president talks to the leader a lot — and vice versa,” said Senator Richard C. Shelby, Republican of Alabama. Seeking little credit — and getting even less — Mr. McConnell has expedited virtually everything Mr. Trump has asked of him since 2017, rolling back Obama-era regulations, ramming through a giant tax cut that has driven up an already high budget deficit and playing wingman to the White House on contentious nominations, even those he had questioned, like Brett M. Kavanaugh for the Supreme Court. But critics say Mr. McConnell’s acquiescence — he even strong-armed Senate rule changes to ease the president’s nominations to confirmation — has only encouraged Mr. Trump to go further out of the mainstream. While other Republicans have openly questioned Mr. Trump’s intention to nominate a former pizza magnate, Herman Cain, and a conservative commentator, Stephen Moore, to the Federal Reserve Board, Mr. McConnell has held his tongue. He has scarcely mentioned last week’s jarring shake-up at the Department of Homeland Security. And Congress has left for a two-week spring recess without passing a popular and much-in-demand disaster relief bill, in large part because Mr. McConnell does not want to provoke Mr. Trump by adding money for Puerto Rico that Democrats are demanding but the president is refusing. Mr. McConnell, speaking in his office last week, promoted his collaboration with the White House on nominations and tax reform but pushed back when asked if Mr. Trump’s unpredictable behavior had hijacked his legacy. “My legacy is shaped by how I handle myself and what I do,” he said. “He sends up the nominees and signs the bills.” Democrats disagree. “Anyone that deals with the president is part of the Trump message,” said former Senator Harry Reid, a Nevada Democrat who was majority leader, when asked about Mr. McConnell during a phone interview on Saturday. “It’s not anything you want to define who you are, you know, by virtue of Donald Trump. But they are stuck with him. It’s too bad.” Mr. McConnell has been willing to express his opinions to the president in private. He vehemently opposed the emergency declaration at the border, continues to noodge him on tariffs and trade, counseled the president not to appoint Ryan Zinke as interior secretary, pushed him not to withdraw troops from Syria and has, from time to time, even urged him to cool it on Twitter. “I think Senator McConnell is not hesitant to give his advice, and the president appears to be increasingly willing to listen to that advice,” said Senator Roy Blunt, Republican of Missouri. Sean Spicer, Mr. Trump’s first press secretary, added, “I think the president has come around to the idea that Mitch is as good at his job as he is at real estate.” The two men are not personally close, but the leader has always had an open line to the president. Until recently, Mr. McConnell preferred to discuss granular details with intermediaries, especially former Defense Secretary Jim Mattis and the former White House Counsel Donald F. McGahn II. Two factors have made that approach less attractive: the arrival of Mick Mulvaney, a former Freedom Caucus hard-liner in the House, as acting White House chief of staff and the diminished clout of Vice President Mike Pence as a dealmaker. In closed-door meetings with negotiators during the longest government shutdown in the nation’s history, Mr. Pence, with Mr. Trump’s blessing, offered a compromise to reopen the government that would have provided about half of the $5.7 billion that Mr. Trump had publicly demanded. Mr. Trump shot it down. Soon after, Mr. McConnell told one fellow Republican senator that Mr. Pence, while well intentioned, could not be entirely relied upon as a negotiator who spoke for the president. David Popp, a spokesman for the majority leader, said it was “unfair and untrue” to say Mr. McConnell had lost faith in the vice president. But Mr. McConnell has told allies he is convinced that the only way to sway Mr. Trump is one-on-one, preferably with no one else in the room, since leaks appear inevitable when Mr. Trump summons aides and relatives to his Oval Office free-for-alls. During the February debate over the border wall, Mr. McConnell took it one step further, requesting an early-morning meeting with Mr. Trump in the White House residence, according to a person later briefed on the meeting. Cozying up to Mr. Trump does not come naturally to Mr. McConnell, who has a sly, sometimes self-lacerating, sense of humor. Mr. Trump surrounds himself with self-aggrandizing magazine covers; by contrast, Mr. McConnell’s office in Louisville is decorated with political cartoons depicting him as, among other things, a turtle. Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, who has courted Mr. Trump relentlessly, has stepped in with some advice for Mr. McConnell. “Your biggest problem is that he thinks you only call him with bad news,” Mr. Graham told the leader recently, according to a senator who was present for the exchange. “You got to keep positive, get in fast and get out fast.” Mr. McConnell prefers more businesslike interactions. On health care, he was direct; he called Mr. Trump to deliver a verdict — “no way” would he go along with a new effort to repeal the health law. “I told him that this was not going to be on the agenda,” Mr. McConnell informed senators week at a recent Tuesday lunch. Other times, Mr. McConnell sends his message more by what he does not do than what he does. The president’s emergency declaration was a flagrant violation of Congress’s constitutional prerogative to control the federal purse strings, an issue dear to the majority leader, a longtime member of the Appropriations Committee. Since Mr. McConnell had used the declaration as a way to reopen the government, he could hardly vote to overturn it. But he did almost nothing to stem the defection of a dozen Republicans, an embarrassing rebuke. Before the vote, he instructed members to “vote your politics,” freeing them to do whatever they pleased. Mr. Trump was infuriated, telling a visitor to Mar-a-Lago, the president’s club in Palm Beach, Fla., that he felt let down by Mr. McConnell. None of this impresses Democrats. Neither Mr. McConnell nor Mr. Trump has proposed a serious policy agenda for the next year, they say, apart from changing procedural rules in the Senate to keep the “conveyor belt” of Trump judicial and subcabinet appointments humming. “When Democrats were in the majority, we had a positive legislative agenda that would help the middle class in this country,” said Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader. “The Senate Republican agenda for the last two years has been to do whatever Donald Trump tweeted that morning.” Mr. McConnell’s approach is rooted in his personal political realities: He cannot afford to have the president, whose support with the party’s base remains solid, turn on him. He is also up for re-election next year, in a state enthralled with Mr. Trump. Mr. Trump has mostly spared Mr. McConnell the scorching disdain he had for former Speaker Paul D. Ryan, who had criticized Mr. Trump’s personal behavior. The president has told people that he considered Mr. McConnell “stiff” and “boring,” but that is about it. The obvious differences between Mr. Trump and Mr. McConnell obscure equally obvious similarities. Both are obsessed with winning; both are transactional, both have a highly attuned sense of self-preservation, both are obsessed with getting re-elected. Another tie that binds: Mr. McConnell’s wife, Elaine Chao, is his transportation secretary. The leader has been unapologetic about leveraging that connection to bring increased funding to Kentucky. But managing Mr. Trump with Mr. Mulvaney in the president’s ear is challenging. Mr. Mulvaney goaded Mr. Trump into forcing the government shutdown in December, then tried to blow up the final deal to reopen it. Mr. Mulvaney, among others, helped sell the president on a short-lived effort to press congressional Republicans to try again to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act. While Mr. McConnell does not interact with Mr. Mulvaney much, he did reach out to him last year, when Mr. Mulvaney was running the White House budget office, to ask that the president request $400 million for a new Department of Veterans Affairs hospital in Louisville, according to a person with direct knowledge of the conversation. Mr. Mulvaney said yes.   

Supported by By Glenn Thrush WASHINGTON — President Trump was walking through the Capitol corridors in February, en route to his State of the Union address, when he spied Mitch McConnell, the taciturn Senate majority leader, and rumbled over to deliver his signature verbal high-five. “Mitch!” Mr. Trump said in a voice loud enough to be heard by a Republican aide pinned against a nearby wall. “I just saw you on Fox! You were totally great with Martha MacCallum!” he added, referring to a prespeech TV appearance in which he denounced the shutdown Mr. Trump initiated against his advice. Mr. McConnell, of Kentucky, who grumbled in private about Mr. Trump’s decision, managed a laugh. The senator, allergic to public glad-handing, would have preferred a more substantive interaction. He had spent much of that week urging Mr. Trump, unsuccessfully, to abandon his plan to declare a national emergency at the border with Mexico to secure wall funds that Congress had denied him. But the exchange captured the essence of an awkward, compulsory yet increasingly close working relationship between two men divided by temperament but Krazy Glued together by shared self-interest. Over the last six months, necessity has cast Mr. McConnell into a new role — as one of the president’s most important counselors, upping the pace and intensity of his one-on-one interactions. Nowadays, he speaks with Mr. Trump nearly every day and far more frequently during times of crisis, according to interviews with two dozen lawmakers, White House aides and administration officials. “The president talks to the leader a lot — and vice versa,” said Senator Richard C. Shelby, Republican of Alabama. Seeking little credit — and getting even less — Mr. McConnell has expedited virtually everything Mr. Trump has asked of him since 2017, rolling back Obama-era regulations, ramming through a giant tax cut that has driven up an already high budget deficit and playing wingman to the White House on contentious nominations, even those he had questioned, like Brett M. Kavanaugh for the Supreme Court. But critics say Mr. McConnell’s acquiescence — he even strong-armed Senate rule changes to ease the president’s nominations to confirmation — has only encouraged Mr. Trump to go further out of the mainstream. While other Republicans have openly questioned Mr. Trump’s intention to nominate a former pizza magnate, Herman Cain, and a conservative commentator, Stephen Moore, to the Federal Reserve Board, Mr. McConnell has held his tongue. He has scarcely mentioned last week’s jarring shake-up at the Department of Homeland Security. And Congress has left for a two-week spring recess without passing a popular and much-in-demand disaster relief bill, in large part because Mr. McConnell does not want to provoke Mr. Trump by adding money for Puerto Rico that Democrats are demanding but the president is refusing. Mr. McConnell, speaking in his office last week, promoted his collaboration with the White House on nominations and tax reform but pushed back when asked if Mr. Trump’s unpredictable behavior had hijacked his legacy. “My legacy is shaped by how I handle myself and what I do,” he said. “He sends up the nominees and signs the bills.” Democrats disagree. “Anyone that deals with the president is part of the Trump message,” said former Senator Harry Reid, a Nevada Democrat who was majority leader, when asked about Mr. McConnell during a phone interview on Saturday. “It’s not anything you want to define who you are, you know, by virtue of Donald Trump. But they are stuck with him. It’s too bad.” Mr. McConnell has been willing to express his opinions to the president in private. He vehemently opposed the emergency declaration at the border, continues to noodge him on tariffs and trade, counseled the president not to appoint Ryan Zinke as interior secretary, pushed him not to withdraw troops from Syria and has, from time to time, even urged him to cool it on Twitter. “I think Senator McConnell is not hesitant to give his advice, and the president appears to be increasingly willing to listen to that advice,” said Senator Roy Blunt, Republican of Missouri. Sean Spicer, Mr. Trump’s first press secretary, added, “I think the president has come around to the idea that Mitch is as good at his job as he is at real estate.” The two men are not personally close, but the leader has always had an open line to the president. Until recently, Mr. McConnell preferred to discuss granular details with intermediaries, especially former Defense Secretary Jim Mattis and the former White House Counsel Donald F. McGahn II. Two factors have made that approach less attractive: the arrival of Mick Mulvaney, a former Freedom Caucus hard-liner in the House, as acting White House chief of staff and the diminished clout of Vice President Mike Pence as a dealmaker. In closed-door meetings with negotiators during the longest government shutdown in the nation’s history, Mr. Pence, with Mr. Trump’s blessing, offered a compromise to reopen the government that would have provided about half of the $5.7 billion that Mr. Trump had publicly demanded. Mr. Trump shot it down. Soon after, Mr. McConnell told one fellow Republican senator that Mr. Pence, while well intentioned, could not be entirely relied upon as a negotiator who spoke for the president. David Popp, a spokesman for the majority leader, said it was “unfair and untrue” to say Mr. McConnell had lost faith in the vice president. But Mr. McConnell has told allies he is convinced that the only way to sway Mr. Trump is one-on-one, preferably with no one else in the room, since leaks appear inevitable when Mr. Trump summons aides and relatives to his Oval Office free-for-alls. During the February debate over the border wall, Mr. McConnell took it one step further, requesting an early-morning meeting with Mr. Trump in the White House residence, according to a person later briefed on the meeting. Cozying up to Mr. Trump does not come naturally to Mr. McConnell, who has a sly, sometimes self-lacerating, sense of humor. Mr. Trump surrounds himself with self-aggrandizing magazine covers; by contrast, Mr. McConnell’s office in Louisville is decorated with political cartoons depicting him as, among other things, a turtle. Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, who has courted Mr. Trump relentlessly, has stepped in with some advice for Mr. McConnell. “Your biggest problem is that he thinks you only call him with bad news,” Mr. Graham told the leader recently, according to a senator who was present for the exchange. “You got to keep positive, get in fast and get out fast.” Mr. McConnell prefers more businesslike interactions. On health care, he was direct; he called Mr. Trump to deliver a verdict — “no way” would he go along with a new effort to repeal the health law. “I told him that this was not going to be on the agenda,” Mr. McConnell informed senators week at a recent Tuesday lunch. Other times, Mr. McConnell sends his message more by what he does not do than what he does. The president’s emergency declaration was a flagrant violation of Congress’s constitutional prerogative to control the federal purse strings, an issue dear to the majority leader, a longtime member of the Appropriations Committee. Since Mr. McConnell had used the declaration as a way to reopen the government, he could hardly vote to overturn it. But he did almost nothing to stem the defection of a dozen Republicans, an embarrassing rebuke. Before the vote, he instructed members to “vote your politics,” freeing them to do whatever they pleased. Mr. Trump was infuriated, telling a visitor to Mar-a-Lago, the president’s club in Palm Beach, Fla., that he felt let down by Mr. McConnell. None of this impresses Democrats. Neither Mr. McConnell nor Mr. Trump has proposed a serious policy agenda for the next year, they say, apart from changing procedural rules in the Senate to keep the “conveyor belt” of Trump judicial and subcabinet appointments humming. “When Democrats were in the majority, we had a positive legislative agenda that would help the middle class in this country,” said Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader. “The Senate Republican agenda for the last two years has been to do whatever Donald Trump tweeted that morning.” Mr. McConnell’s approach is rooted in his personal political realities: He cannot afford to have the president, whose support with the party’s base remains solid, turn on him. He is also up for re-election next year, in a state enthralled with Mr. Trump. Mr. Trump has mostly spared Mr. McConnell the scorching disdain he had for former Speaker Paul D. Ryan, who had criticized Mr. Trump’s personal behavior. The president has told people that he considered Mr. McConnell “stiff” and “boring,” but that is about it. The obvious differences between Mr. Trump and Mr. McConnell obscure equally obvious similarities. Both are obsessed with winning; both are transactional, both have a highly attuned sense of self-preservation, both are obsessed with getting re-elected. Another tie that binds: Mr. McConnell’s wife, Elaine Chao, is his transportation secretary. The leader has been unapologetic about leveraging that connection to bring increased funding to Kentucky. But managing Mr. Trump with Mr. Mulvaney in the president’s ear is challenging. Mr. Mulvaney goaded Mr. Trump into forcing the government shutdown in December, then tried to blow up the final deal to reopen it. Mr. Mulvaney, among others, helped sell the president on a short-lived effort to press congressional Republicans to try again to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act. While Mr. McConnell does not interact with Mr. Mulvaney much, he did reach out to him last year, when Mr. Mulvaney was running the White House budget office, to ask that the president request $400 million for a new Department of Veterans Affairs hospital in Louisville, according to a person with direct knowledge of the conversation. Mr. Mulvaney said yes.   Supported by By Annie Karni and Maggie Haberman WASHINGTON — In recent months, Kirstjen Nielsen, the secretary of homeland security, had become a regular presence eating dinner at the Trump International Hotel. She had been heckled and booed when dining out after becoming the face of some of President Trump’s most hard-line immigration policies, like family separations, and her affinity for the hotel, a gathering place for the president’s supporters, seemed like a sign that she felt safer on the inside. But her status inside the White House, where she was subject to dressing-downs from Mr. Trump during cabinet meetings and constant criticism by the president, was not much more secure. So when Ms. Nielsen went to the White House on Sunday night to meet with the president to discuss some grievances, she was also prepared to avoid a messy end by letting Mr. Trump, who is known for not personally firing people, off the hook. After Mr. Trump made it clear that he was looking for a change, Ms. Nielsen told him she would resign, ridding him of a cabinet secretary who had long disappointed him. Ms. Nielsen’s departure, announced Sunday night, was abrupt but hardly unforeseen, the latest in a long and growing conga line of senior officials who have left the administration unceremoniously because of their own frustrations with the president, or because of the president’s obvious disappointment in them. Usually, it is both. Mr. Trump has ripped into Ms. Nielsen, holding her personally responsible for the uptick in crossings at the southwestern border. And Ms. Nielsen wanted to tell Mr. Trump that she was upset not to have been notified beforehand about his sudden withdrawal of Ron Vitiello, the nominee to serve as Immigration and Customs Enforcement director, and that she was frustrated at being pulled from security meetings in Europe last week and ordered to appear by the president’s side on a trip to the border, according to someone close to Ms. Nielsen. The end for Ms. Nielsen was something that has become familiar in the Trump administration: a high-ranking official like Jeff Sessions, the former attorney general, or Rex Tillerson, the former secretary of state, leaving with a reputation in need of rehabilitation. “Normally, people just resign,” said Ronald A. Klain, who served as chief of staff to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. “The president sends word through an intermediary that he’s unhappy, and you resign. The president says something nice about them and then they leave. “But here, quitting isn’t good enough.” Some exits have been more humiliating than others. Since the departure of Mr. Tillerson, Mr. Trump has referred to him as “dumb as a rock” and “lazy as hell.” After calling the departure of his defense secretary, Jim Mattis, a “retirement” and praising his service, Mr. Trump turned on him once he understood that the resignation was an affront to him. “What’s he done for me?” Mr. Trump said of Mr. Mattis. “How had he done in Afghanistan? Not too good.” After years of haranguing Mr. Sessions in public and in private, Mr. Trump sent John F. Kelly, his former chief of staff, to demand his resignation in November, and he has not let up on him since he left office. In a speech in front of the Conservative Political Action Conference last month, Mr. Trump mimicked Mr. Sessions’s southern accent while discussing his decision to recuse himself from the special counsel’s investigation into Russian meddling during the 2016 campaign. Mr. Kelly later suffered his own ignoble end. After he and Mr. Trump ironed out a departure plan at the end of last year, Mr. Kelly planned to make his own announcement at a senior staff dinner at the White House. But the president chose to break the news first, telling reporters that Mr. Kelly would be departing at the end of December. Although all involved tried to put the best face on the Sunday meeting between Mr. Trump and Ms. Nielsen — someone familiar with it said the president had even asked her if she would want to return in another position — the two competed afterward for how to spin its contents. Within minutes of the meeting’s end, Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter that Ms. Nielsen was “leaving her position,” making it sound as if she was the latest cabinet secretary he had ousted online. Ms. Nielsen then posted her resignation letter on Twitter, notably leaving out any mention or praise for Mr. Trump. Mr. Trump has yet to criticize her publicly since. But Ms. Nielsen has already absorbed more than her share of criticism for her role in implementing the president’s policies. Immigration and civil rights groups have been pressuring Fortune 500 companies to blacklist former Trump officials like Ms. Nielsen, who have promoted his immigration policies, writing that they “should not be allowed to seek refuge in your boardrooms or corner offices.” Many other former administration officials have not experienced the post-White House career bump that has become part of the payoff for putting in grueling hours on government salaries. With a few exceptions, like the smooth send-off for Nikki R. Haley, the former ambassador to the United Nations, and a glowing farewell to Linda McMahon, the former administrator of the Small Business Administration, Mr. Trump’s top aides often find themselves damaged by their former boss in real time, or on delay. Even those who have managed to stay in Mr. Trump’s favor, like Mike Pompeo, the secretary of state, have a sense of gallows humor about what might ultimately befall them. “I’ll be there until he tweets me out of the office,” Mr. Pompeo recently joked at an event in his home state of Kansas, when asked about his future in politics. For her part, Ms. Nielsen appears to be intent on trying to minimize the damage to her reputation, with surrogates out defending her record. “The so-called immigration hard-liners have flailed about since the beginning of the administration, giving bad advice to the president and misdirecting resources toward the wrong solutions to the wrong problems,” said Thad Bingel, who was a senior homeland security official in the Bush administration and served as an aide to Ms. Nielsen during her Senate confirmation. “They apparently don’t want anyone like a Secretary Nielsen or Secretary Kelly, who deals in reality, to tell them or the president any of this.”   

Supported by By Annie Karni and Maggie Haberman WASHINGTON — In recent months, Kirstjen Nielsen, the secretary of homeland security, had become a regular presence eating dinner at the Trump International Hotel. She had been heckled and booed when dining out after becoming the face of some of President Trump’s most hard-line immigration policies, like family separations, and her affinity for the hotel, a gathering place for the president’s supporters, seemed like a sign that she felt safer on the inside. But her status inside the White House, where she was subject to dressing-downs from Mr. Trump during cabinet meetings and constant criticism by the president, was not much more secure. So when Ms. Nielsen went to the White House on Sunday night to meet with the president to discuss some grievances, she was also prepared to avoid a messy end by letting Mr. Trump, who is known for not personally firing people, off the hook. After Mr. Trump made it clear that he was looking for a change, Ms. Nielsen told him she would resign, ridding him of a cabinet secretary who had long disappointed him. Ms. Nielsen’s departure, announced Sunday night, was abrupt but hardly unforeseen, the latest in a long and growing conga line of senior officials who have left the administration unceremoniously because of their own frustrations with the president, or because of the president’s obvious disappointment in them. Usually, it is both. Mr. Trump has ripped into Ms. Nielsen, holding her personally responsible for the uptick in crossings at the southwestern border. And Ms. Nielsen wanted to tell Mr. Trump that she was upset not to have been notified beforehand about his sudden withdrawal of Ron Vitiello, the nominee to serve as Immigration and Customs Enforcement director, and that she was frustrated at being pulled from security meetings in Europe last week and ordered to appear by the president’s side on a trip to the border, according to someone close to Ms. Nielsen. The end for Ms. Nielsen was something that has become familiar in the Trump administration: a high-ranking official like Jeff Sessions, the former attorney general, or Rex Tillerson, the former secretary of state, leaving with a reputation in need of rehabilitation. “Normally, people just resign,” said Ronald A. Klain, who served as chief of staff to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. “The president sends word through an intermediary that he’s unhappy, and you resign. The president says something nice about them and then they leave. “But here, quitting isn’t good enough.” Some exits have been more humiliating than others. Since the departure of Mr. Tillerson, Mr. Trump has referred to him as “dumb as a rock” and “lazy as hell.” After calling the departure of his defense secretary, Jim Mattis, a “retirement” and praising his service, Mr. Trump turned on him once he understood that the resignation was an affront to him. “What’s he done for me?” Mr. Trump said of Mr. Mattis. “How had he done in Afghanistan? Not too good.” After years of haranguing Mr. Sessions in public and in private, Mr. Trump sent John F. Kelly, his former chief of staff, to demand his resignation in November, and he has not let up on him since he left office. In a speech in front of the Conservative Political Action Conference last month, Mr. Trump mimicked Mr. Sessions’s southern accent while discussing his decision to recuse himself from the special counsel’s investigation into Russian meddling during the 2016 campaign. Mr. Kelly later suffered his own ignoble end. After he and Mr. Trump ironed out a departure plan at the end of last year, Mr. Kelly planned to make his own announcement at a senior staff dinner at the White House. But the president chose to break the news first, telling reporters that Mr. Kelly would be departing at the end of December. Although all involved tried to put the best face on the Sunday meeting between Mr. Trump and Ms. Nielsen — someone familiar with it said the president had even asked her if she would want to return in another position — the two competed afterward for how to spin its contents. Within minutes of the meeting’s end, Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter that Ms. Nielsen was “leaving her position,” making it sound as if she was the latest cabinet secretary he had ousted online. Ms. Nielsen then posted her resignation letter on Twitter, notably leaving out any mention or praise for Mr. Trump. Mr. Trump has yet to criticize her publicly since. But Ms. Nielsen has already absorbed more than her share of criticism for her role in implementing the president’s policies. Immigration and civil rights groups have been pressuring Fortune 500 companies to blacklist former Trump officials like Ms. Nielsen, who have promoted his immigration policies, writing that they “should not be allowed to seek refuge in your boardrooms or corner offices.” Many other former administration officials have not experienced the post-White House career bump that has become part of the payoff for putting in grueling hours on government salaries. With a few exceptions, like the smooth send-off for Nikki R. Haley, the former ambassador to the United Nations, and a glowing farewell to Linda McMahon, the former administrator of the Small Business Administration, Mr. Trump’s top aides often find themselves damaged by their former boss in real time, or on delay. Even those who have managed to stay in Mr. Trump’s favor, like Mike Pompeo, the secretary of state, have a sense of gallows humor about what might ultimately befall them. “I’ll be there until he tweets me out of the office,” Mr. Pompeo recently joked at an event in his home state of Kansas, when asked about his future in politics. For her part, Ms. Nielsen appears to be intent on trying to minimize the damage to her reputation, with surrogates out defending her record. “The so-called immigration hard-liners have flailed about since the beginning of the administration, giving bad advice to the president and misdirecting resources toward the wrong solutions to the wrong problems,” said Thad Bingel, who was a senior homeland security official in the Bush administration and served as an aide to Ms. Nielsen during her Senate confirmation. “They apparently don’t want anyone like a Secretary Nielsen or Secretary Kelly, who deals in reality, to tell them or the president any of this.”   Supported by By Michael D. Shear and Maggie Haberman WASHINGTON — President Trump hosted Jair Bolsonaro, the Brazilian president, at the White House on Tuesday, and it was something like looking in the mirror. Like other authoritarian leaders Mr. Trump has embraced since taking office, Mr. Bolsonaro is an echo of the American president: a brash nationalist whose populist appeal comes partly from his use of Twitter and his history of making crude statements about women, gay people and indigenous groups. “They say he’s the Donald Trump of South America,” Mr. Trump marveled during a speech to the Farm Bureau in January, noting that Mr. Bolsonaro had been called the “Trump of the tropics” since taking office this year. “Do you believe that? And he’s happy with that. If he wasn’t, I wouldn’t like the country so much. But I like him.” At a news conference after the two men held a luncheon meeting, Mr. Trump gushed that “I think Brazil’s relationship with the United States, because of our friendship, is probably better than it’s ever been by far.” “Our trade with Brazil will go substantially up,” Mr. Trump predicted earlier in the afternoon, “and that’s one of the things Brazil would like to see.” United States officials said this week that Mr. Trump appreciated the way Mr. Bolsonaro powered his way to victory in Brazil’s election by being unabashedly pro-American and declaring repeatedly that he wanted to have a close relationship with Mr. Trump. In part because of the stylistic similarities between the two leaders, White House officials expressed optimism that Brazil and the United States — two of the largest economies in the Western Hemisphere — would be able to work through disagreements and forge a closer bond on trade and regional issues in South America, including confronting the political crisis in Venezuela. But the warmth displayed between the two leaders at the White House also underscores how Mr. Trump has upended the usual foreign policy traditions established over decades by his predecessors. Since taking office, Mr. Trump has repeatedly confronted and challenged the United States’ closest democratic allies, including the leaders of Canada, Germany and France, while speaking with glowing admiration about some of the globe’s most brutal dictators: Kim Jong-un of North Korea, Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, Xi Jinping of China, Abdel Fattah el-Sisi of Egypt, Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey and Rodrigo Duterte of the Philippines. transcript Hosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Alexandra Leigh Young, Andy Mills and Jonathan Wolfe, and edited by Paige Cowett and Lisa Tobin Jair Bolsonaro spent most of his career on the political fringe, until his message started to resonate with a country reeling from economic hardship and a widespread corruption scandal. michael barbaro From the New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today — archived recording (donald trump) Today, I’m very thrilled to welcome President Bolsonaro of Brazil for his first visit to the White House. michael barbaro On Tuesday, President Trump held a joint news conference with the newly elected president of Brazil, Jair Bolsonaro. archived recording (donald trump) President Bolsonaro, I want to congratulate you again on your tremendous election victory. Last October, it was an incredible feat and, really, a truly incredible challenge. And the end result was something the whole world was talking about. michael barbaro The campaign he ran and his brash style have earned Bolsonaro the nickname the “Trump of the tropics,” a comparison that Trump has embraced and said he is honored by. archived recording (donald trump) I also know that we’re going to have a fantastic working relationship. We have many views that are similar. michael barbaro My colleague, Ernesto Londoño, on the story of Bolsonaro. It’s Wednesday, March 20. So who is Bolsonaro, and how did he enter Brazilian politics? ernesto londoño Bolsonaro is a former army captain. He was a paratrooper who had a pretty short and fairly turbulent stint in the military. He actually got kicked out. But after leaving the military in not the best of terms, he was very successful at sliding into a political career, initially as a city council member in his native Rio de Janeiro. And then very soon, he found his way to the capital, Brasília, as a congressman. archived recording The dictatorship was at its most harsh in the late ‘60s and early ‘70s. ernesto londoño And the country was emerging from a pretty traumatic period. archived recording Student demonstrations in 1968, calling for the restoration of democratic rights, prompted a strong response from the military. ernesto londoño It was definitely an era of repression, of terror, for many groups that were at odds with the military government, and a pretty widespread censorship and curtailment of civil rights. archived recording Many of those arrested were to face torture. ernesto londoño But in ‘88, lawmakers passed a very progressive Constitution. archived recording It’s 29 years since Brazil last held free presidential elections. ernesto londoño If there is one point where it became starkly clear that Brazil had reached cruising altitude as a democracy, it would’ve been the election of Luiz Inácio da Silva, commonly known as Lula, in 2002. Lula was a former shoeshiner, son of a single mother, raised poor, rose to prominence as a union leader, started building a political movement during the era of military rule and was briefly jailed as a political prisoner. And when he is sworn in 2003 — archived recording [PORTUGUESE SPEECH] ernesto londoño — the region really sort of took a look at Brazil and said, wow, this country has really turned a corner. If a man like Lula can get elected in Brazil, Brazil has really matured as a democracy. michael barbaro And what role does Bolsonaro play in the midst of this pretty dramatic shift in Brazil? ernesto londoño Bolsonaro was seen as kind of a loud and obnoxious lawmaker, who would just get into these shouting matches in Congress, would deliver these fiery speeches. archived recording (jair bolsonaro) (SPEAKING PORTUGUESE) ernesto londoño He became infamous for saying things that were very offensive about women. archived recording (jair bolsonaro) (SPEAKING PORTUGUESE) ernesto londoño About blacks. archived recording (jair bolsonaro) (SPEAKING PORTUGUESE) ernesto londoño About gays. archived recording (jair bolsonaro) (SPEAKING PORTUGUESE) ernesto londoño He made the news, for instance, when he got into a shouting match with a female lawmaker. archived recording (jair bolsonaro) (SPEAKING PORTUGUESE) ernesto londoño And told her that she was too ugly to rape. archived recording (jair bolsonaro) (SPEAKING PORTUGUESE) ernesto londoño And the most startling thing, and it was the theme he went back and back to, was his praise for the era of military rule. archived recording (jair bolsonaro) (SPEAKING PORTUGUESE) ernesto londoño That Brazil needed strong men at the helm and that this experiment with democracy was not taking the country in the right direction. michael barbaro So just as kind of modern democratic Brazil is coming into form, it sounds like Bolsonaro is entering politics, but is pushing in the other direction, for less democracy, more authoritarianism. ernesto londoño Absolutely. He essentially made the case, only the military can run this large, unwieldy country effectively. And we’re wasting our time thinking that this experiment with democracy is going to take us anywhere productive. michael barbaro And what was the response to moments like that? ernesto londoño Largely speaking, people started saying, well, that’s just Bolsonaro being Bolsonaro. He made headlines. He was admonished. He was criticized. But he was not somebody who was really taken seriously. He was not somebody who was center stage when big deals were being negotiated. For most of his career, he was a little bit of a sideshow. And at the same time — archived recording In Brazil, Petrobras recently made what could be the world’s biggest oil discovery since the 1970s. ernesto londoño Lula had a remarkably successful first term as president, and Brazilians started seeing some pretty sweeping changes. Brazil, like much of the region, was enjoying a commodities boom. archived recording The discovery could mean that Brazil will become one of the world’s leading oil exporters. ernesto londoño There were some pretty groundbreaking policies that paved the way for people from poor families, people from rural communities, for the first time to go to university. archived recording In just seven years, almost 30 million Brazilians have joined the ranks of the middle class, some helped by government handouts, others through improved education, which leads to higher wages. ernesto londoño There was a sense that inequality was diminishing in a country where it’s long been really hard to move up the ladder. And Brazil started aspiring to great things. Brazil started making alliances with other large economies, like Russia and China and South Africa, and kind of projecting itself on the world stage as a rising power. I think this all became crystal clear, just kind of a sense of optimism and the sense that Brazil seemed unstoppable, when — archived recording I have the honor to announce that the Games of the 31st Olympiad are awarded to the city of Rio de Janeiro. [CROWD CHEERS] ernesto londoño In 2009, Brazil beat the odds and won the rights to host the 2016 Olympic Games. And, you know, looking back now at how optimistic, you know, the scenes of people partying on the beach in Copacabana, just celebrating this major triumph for Brazil, it seems impossible to think now that the seeds of what would happen next had already been planted. And the reality was that underneath this triumphant country that seemed to be rising into a bright new era, underneath all that, there was a lot of rot. And it would take a few years for people here to discover just how much. [music]  michael barbaro So, Ernesto, how did this rot that you describe, this ugliness beneath the surface, eventually get exposed? ernesto londoño Well, things in Brazil started taking a definite turn for the worse in 2014. Two major things happened. On the one hand, the economy, which had been on a slide, entered into recession. On the other hand, a team of investigators stumbled into a major scandal while they were looking at some funny financial transactions, initially at a gas station. archived recording 1 In the past week, Brazilians have had wall-to-wall coverage of a political scandal threatening to bring down the country’s government. It first came to light when Brazilian police uncovered a money laundering operation at a car wash. archived recording 2 It’s known as Operation Car Wash. ernesto londoño That quickly reached very, very deeply into very powerful politicians and the top companies in Brazil. archived recording 1 The investigation centers on a billion-dollar corruption scandal at Brazil’s mammoth oil corporation, Petrobras. archived recording 2 Petrobras is one of Brazil’s biggest companies. It’s alleged senior officials took almost $700 million in bribes when awarding construction contracts. Many that may have taken bribes are linked to the government. ernesto londoño We’re talking about massive companies that had entire departments with the task of paying bribes to politicians. archived recording 1 The speaker of Brazil’s lower house of Congress has been charged over alleged involvement in a corruption scandal at the state-run — archived recording 2 News breaking in the last hour that the former president of Brazil is being detained by police after a raid on his home and office — ernesto londoño It soon became apparent to Brazilians that corruption had been institutionalized. archived recording Five former Brazilian presidents, nearly one out of three cabinet ministers, and almost one out of three senators have been indicted or investigated. michael barbaro And what was the reaction in the general Brazilian public once all this corruption comes to light? ernesto londoño There was outrage. archived recording [CHANTING] ernesto londoño As these scandals started engulfing some of the pillars of the economy here, some of the biggest companies in the country, unemployment goes up, people’s purchasing power goes down, and state governments start going bankrupt. archived recording [CHANTING] ernesto londoño In some places, this means the police aren’t getting paid. And people start seeing a surge of violence. archived recording With more than 50,000 violent deaths every year, Brazil has one of the world’s highest homicide rates. ernesto londoño They go from a period of feeling optimistic and almost euphoric about the future to a period of despair and anguish. michael barbaro And where is Bolsonaro in all of this? ernesto londoño Bolsonaro is one of the rarer veteran lawmakers who has not really been splattered by these corruption investigations. And at this time, he starts getting a fair amount of traction. All of a sudden, this guy who had kind of been a fringe character comes more into sync with how Brazilians were feeling about their lot in life. archived recording (jair bolsonaro) (SPEAKING PORTUGUESE) ernesto londoño Around 2016, he starts telling people that he wants to take a shot at the presidency. archived recording (jair bolsonaro) (SPEAKING PORTUGUESE) ernesto londoño And the way he spread his message was unique in the history of Brazilian presidential races. He was campaigning largely by sitting in front of a phone, which was often shaky. archived recording (jair bolsonaro) (SPEAKING PORTUGUESE) ernesto londoño And just broadcasting videos live on Facebook, on Instagram. archived recording (jair bolsonaro) (SPEAKING PORTUGUESE) ernesto londoño Where he was speaking to people as though they were long-lost friends. archived recording (jair bolsonaro) (SPEAKING PORTUGUESE) ernesto londoño It was completely unscripted, oftentimes stream-of-consciousness. He would jump from one subject to another. archived recording (jair bolsonaro) (SPEAKING PORTUGUESE) ernesto londoño And I think people saw that as pretty refreshing. People were so disgusted with politics as usual in the political establishment that they saw in this guy, who had been in the fringes for so long, somebody who could radically reinvent the system. archived recording [CHANTING] michael barbaro And does he have the stature at this moment to do that? ernesto londoño When the very first rumblings of a Bolsonaro presidential bid start coming up, people laughed it off. The conventional wisdom was he’s too extreme. He’s too outside of the norm. But despite the skepticism, by the end of 2017, it became pretty clear that Bolsonaro’s message had strong appeal across the country. archived recording [CHANTING] michael barbaro And what exactly is he promising on the campaign trail that the Brazilian people are finding so compelling? ernesto londoño On corruption, he was very clear in stating that he was going have no patience for business as usual. And that under his tenure — archived recording (jair bolsonaro) (SPEAKING PORTUGUESE) ernesto londoño People who were corrupt had tons to fear. But I think the main promise he made to his supporters was that he was going to take extraordinary measures to restore security. And we’re talking about pretty draconian things. Bolsonaro, for example, once said, “A good criminal is a dead criminal.” archived recording (jair bolsonaro) (SPEAKING PORTUGUESE) ernesto londoño He made it clear he was essentially going to give the police free rein to shoot suspected criminals on the spot. archived recording (jair bolsonaro) (SPEAKING PORTUGUESE) ernesto londoño The third thing he did, which was unusual, was surround himself with military leaders and make them kind of a core base of support. The military had been largely out of sight in politics in Brazil for the past three decades. So this was a pretty bold move, but actually one that captured people’s imagination as they longed for a system that was more orderly and more secure. michael barbaro So this cranky, often outrageous character is starting to connect with people. ernesto londoño Absolutely. archived recording [CHANTING] ernesto londoño However, I think it’s important to note that there were a couple of pretty crucial turning points that turbocharged his presidential bid. archived recording Brazil’s former president, Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, is to stand trial for allegedly accepting over $1 million in bribes. ernesto londoño Early last year, former president Lula, who had been the front-runner according to opinion polls, and who was trying to make a bid for a third term in the presidential palace, got jailed. And after he gets jailed on corruption and money laundering charges, he essentially becomes disqualified, and his party is in disarray. And then you fast forward a few months, and in September of last year, there’s a very dramatic moment when, on the campaign trail, Bolsonaro is marching through the streets of a small town, surrounded by supporters. And a man lunges toward him with a big kitchen knife and stabs him in the stomach. archived recording [SIRENS] Jair Bolsonaro has been left in a serious but stable condition in hospital, this after being stabbed while drumming up support ahead of next month’s vote. Hospital officials say it could take two months for him to recover. ernesto londoño He was essentially knocked off the campaign trail for the remainder of the race. He was in a hospital bed, and then he was in his apartment, and communicating virtually only through social media. archived recording (jair bolsonaro) (SPEAKING PORTUGUESE) ernesto londoño People, I think, saw in this moment the kind of violence that he was railing against in a really crystallized form. This incident that could have easily ended his life ended up propelling his bid. archived recording [CHANTING] The breaking news is the far-right candidate Jair Bolsonaro has won Brazil’s presidential race. ernesto londoño And after this happens, in October, he has a decisive victory. michael barbaro And what is the reaction across Brazil to this victory? ernesto londoño Brazil emerges from the election pretty polarized. Somebody who had been a very, very long shot for the presidency was able to not just win, but win decisively. However, you also have many communities in the country that feel extraordinarily unsafe in this new Brazil and that worry that the country under Bolsonaro’s watch could well transition into a new era of authoritarian rule. michael barbaro I wonder what Bolsonaro’s election means for Brazil, which, as you told us earlier, is just 30 years from having been a military dictatorship and turned to democracy and seems to have had a pretty rocky journey. ernesto londoño I think it illustrates that many people, not just in Brazil but across Latin America, have become very cynical about democracy, at least the version of democracy they were seeing. Many Brazilians felt that they were being governed by thieves, who just kept getting elected by playing the old political playbook. And I think, in the specific case of Bolsonaro, who comes with a history of having championed authoritarian rule, of wanting to govern very closely with senior military leaders, the promise of order, even if it came at the price of a rollback of civil liberties and of democracy, it was a price many Brazilians were perfectly willing to pay. michael barbaro So to change this system that seems to not be working, it feels like Brazilians want to shock the system and perhaps test its limits, which sounds a little bit like what’s going on in the United States. ernesto londoño Absolutely. When I talked to people on the campaign trail, you know, I was really startled by the level of anguish that they expressed and their willingness to take big risks on a leader who was untested and who comes with all these question marks. michael barbaro Ernesto, thank you very much. ernesto londoño Thank you. michael barbaro Just weeks after his swearing in, when Bolsonaro vowed to, quote, “rid Brazil of corruption,” he faced charges that his own administration was engaging in more of the same. Brazilian prosecutors are investigating the mysterious movement of more than $300,000 in and out of bank accounts controlled by the driver of Bolsonaro’s oldest son, a state lawmaker, and why some of those payments went to Bolsonaro’s wife. At the same time, Bolsonaro has appointed three government ministers who were previously implicated in investigations of corruption. Mr. Bolsonaro has long been an apologist for the military dictatorship that ruled Brazil for more than two decades, but he was elected by an ample margin and Brazil is now very much a democracy. A former army captain who served for decades in the Brazilian congress, Mr. Bolsonaro vaulted onto the international scene by winning his country’s elections last year. He made his first international appearance as president when he attended the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, in January. At the White House on Tuesday, Mr. Bolsonaro pledged that the United States and Brazil would “stand side by side in their efforts to ensure liberties and respect to traditional family lifestyles, respect to God our creator against the gender ideology or the politically correct attitudes, and against fake news.” A few minutes later, Mr. Trump said he was “very proud to hear the president use the term ‘fake news.’” In an interview on Fox News on Monday night, Mr. Bolsonaro lashed out at the news media — much the way Mr. Trump often does — for what he said were inaccurate representations of his past statements about race and women, including having said at one point that “yes, I am homophobic — and very proud of it.” “If it were all that, I would not at all have been elected president,” Mr. Bolsonaro told Shannon Bream of Fox. “So there’s a great deal of fake news certainly around — the Brazilian population has after all learned how to use social media. And they no longer trust or believe the Brazilian mainstream media, which is virtually dominated by the left wing.” Mr. Bolsonaro insisted that “I have nothing against homosexuals or women — I’m not a xenophobe.” With Mr. Bolsonaro by his side at the White House, Mr. Trump lashed out at social media companies like Twitter and Facebook, accusing them of being “collusive” with his critics and discriminating against conservatives and Republicans. Reacting to a lawsuit filed against social media companies by Representative Devin Nunes, a California Republican and one of his supporters, Mr. Trump hinted that he was prepared to take action against what he called “unfair” practices by the companies. “Well, we have to do something, I tell you,” Mr. Trump said. “If they’re in a certain group, there’s discrimination and big discrimination,” he said. “I see it absolutely on Twitter and Facebook.” Mr. Trump also criticized television networks. “The incredible thing is that we can win an election and we have such a stacked deck, and that includes networks.” Mr. Trump and Mr. Bolsonaro said they discussed the future of Venezuela, and Mr. Trump praised his counterpart for Brazil’s humanitarian aid to Venezuela and support for Juan Guaidó, the self-declared interim president. Responding to a question about why sanctions by the United States have so far failed to force Nicolás Maduro, the Venezuela’s socialist leader, to surrender his grip on the presidency, Mr. Trump said that the United States had still not imposed the toughest sanctions possible. “We really haven’t done the really tough sanctions yet,” Mr. Trump said. “We can do the tough sanctions, and all options are open. We can go a lot tougher if we need to do that.” Earlier in the day, the Treasury Department imposed a new round of sanctions against Minerven, Venezuela’s state-owned gold-mining company and its president, Adrian Antonio Perdomo Mata, as part of its effort to increase pressure to the Maduro government. It accused Minerven of propping up Mr. Maduro through “illicit gold operations,” including paying independent miners for gold with “nearly worthless bolívars” to sustain the military. “The illegitimate Maduro regime is pillaging the wealth of Venezuela while imperiling indigenous people by encroaching on protected areas and causing deforestation and habitat loss,” Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said. Appearing with Mr. Bolsonaro in the Oval Office before their meeting, Mr. Trump said that he knew “exactly” what he wanted to happen in Venezuela, but he declined to say what that was. He said that all options were on the table, including the use of the military. Asked about the possibility of joining the United States in a potential military action against Venezuela, Mr. Bolsonaro declined to answer, saying that “these reserved issues, which may be discussed, if they have not yet, will not become public.” Mr. Bolsonaro’s visit to Washington received mixed reviews at home, where many Brazilians were outraged to hear him praise the Trump administration’s plan to build a wall along the Mexican border and say a majority of immigrants who head to the United States do not have “good intentions.” The satire website Sensacionalista mocked Mr. Bolsonaro for concessions announced during the trip: waiving the visa requirement for United States citizens visiting Brazil and agreeing to allow companies from the United States to launch commercial satellites from a base near the Equator. “In exchange for the use of our base and the visa exemption for Americans, the president will come home with a Trump baseball cap,” the article said. “It’s actually an incredible location when you study it, and when you see it,” Mr. Trump said on Tuesday, referring to the agreement Mr. Bolsonaro had announced allowing United States companies to launch satellites from a base in Alcantara, along the north coast of Brazil. “We won’t go into it now, but because of the location, tremendous amounts of money would be saved. To put it very simply, the flights are a lot shorter.” Brazil experts in the United States said the visit had gone well and would most likely establish a foundation for closer cooperation between the two largest economies in the Americas. “We can point to the removal of visa restrictions by Brazil on U.S. citizens as a signal that Brazil is working to reduce barriers to engagement,” said Roberta Braga, an associate director at the Atlantic Council’s Adrienne Arsht Latin America Center. Alan Rappeport contributed reporting from Washington, and Ernesto Londoño from Brazil. 

Supported by By Michael D. Shear and Maggie Haberman WASHINGTON — President Trump hosted Jair Bolsonaro, the Brazilian president, at the White House on Tuesday, and it was something like looking in the mirror. Like other authoritarian leaders Mr. Trump has embraced since taking office, Mr. Bolsonaro is an echo of the American president: a brash nationalist whose populist appeal comes partly from his use of Twitter and his history of making crude statements about women, gay people and indigenous groups. “They say he’s the Donald Trump of South America,” Mr. Trump marveled during a speech to the Farm Bureau in January, noting that Mr. Bolsonaro had been called the “Trump of the tropics” since taking office this year. “Do you believe that? And he’s happy with that. If he wasn’t, I wouldn’t like the country so much. But I like him.” At a news conference after the two men held a luncheon meeting, Mr. Trump gushed that “I think Brazil’s relationship with the United States, because of our friendship, is probably better than it’s ever been by far.” “Our trade with Brazil will go substantially up,” Mr. Trump predicted earlier in the afternoon, “and that’s one of the things Brazil would like to see.” United States officials said this week that Mr. Trump appreciated the way Mr. Bolsonaro powered his way to victory in Brazil’s election by being unabashedly pro-American and declaring repeatedly that he wanted to have a close relationship with Mr. Trump. In part because of the stylistic similarities between the two leaders, White House officials expressed optimism that Brazil and the United States — two of the largest economies in the Western Hemisphere — would be able to work through disagreements and forge a closer bond on trade and regional issues in South America, including confronting the political crisis in Venezuela. But the warmth displayed between the two leaders at the White House also underscores how Mr. Trump has upended the usual foreign policy traditions established over decades by his predecessors. Since taking office, Mr. Trump has repeatedly confronted and challenged the United States’ closest democratic allies, including the leaders of Canada, Germany and France, while speaking with glowing admiration about some of the globe’s most brutal dictators: Kim Jong-un of North Korea, Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, Xi Jinping of China, Abdel Fattah el-Sisi of Egypt, Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey and Rodrigo Duterte of the Philippines. transcript Hosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Alexandra Leigh Young, Andy Mills and Jonathan Wolfe, and edited by Paige Cowett and Lisa Tobin Jair Bolsonaro spent most of his career on the political fringe, until his message started to resonate with a country reeling from economic hardship and a widespread corruption scandal. michael barbaro From the New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today — archived recording (donald trump) Today, I’m very thrilled to welcome President Bolsonaro of Brazil for his first visit to the White House. michael barbaro On Tuesday, President Trump held a joint news conference with the newly elected president of Brazil, Jair Bolsonaro. archived recording (donald trump) President Bolsonaro, I want to congratulate you again on your tremendous election victory. Last October, it was an incredible feat and, really, a truly incredible challenge. And the end result was something the whole world was talking about. michael barbaro The campaign he ran and his brash style have earned Bolsonaro the nickname the “Trump of the tropics,” a comparison that Trump has embraced and said he is honored by. archived recording (donald trump) I also know that we’re going to have a fantastic working relationship. We have many views that are similar. michael barbaro My colleague, Ernesto Londoño, on the story of Bolsonaro. It’s Wednesday, March 20. So who is Bolsonaro, and how did he enter Brazilian politics? ernesto londoño Bolsonaro is a former army captain. He was a paratrooper who had a pretty short and fairly turbulent stint in the military. He actually got kicked out. But after leaving the military in not the best of terms, he was very successful at sliding into a political career, initially as a city council member in his native Rio de Janeiro. And then very soon, he found his way to the capital, Brasília, as a congressman. archived recording The dictatorship was at its most harsh in the late ‘60s and early ‘70s. ernesto londoño And the country was emerging from a pretty traumatic period. archived recording Student demonstrations in 1968, calling for the restoration of democratic rights, prompted a strong response from the military. ernesto londoño It was definitely an era of repression, of terror, for many groups that were at odds with the military government, and a pretty widespread censorship and curtailment of civil rights. archived recording Many of those arrested were to face torture. ernesto londoño But in ‘88, lawmakers passed a very progressive Constitution. archived recording It’s 29 years since Brazil last held free presidential elections. ernesto londoño If there is one point where it became starkly clear that Brazil had reached cruising altitude as a democracy, it would’ve been the election of Luiz Inácio da Silva, commonly known as Lula, in 2002. Lula was a former shoeshiner, son of a single mother, raised poor, rose to prominence as a union leader, started building a political movement during the era of military rule and was briefly jailed as a political prisoner. And when he is sworn in 2003 — archived recording [PORTUGUESE SPEECH] ernesto londoño — the region really sort of took a look at Brazil and said, wow, this country has really turned a corner. If a man like Lula can get elected in Brazil, Brazil has really matured as a democracy. michael barbaro And what role does Bolsonaro play in the midst of this pretty dramatic shift in Brazil? ernesto londoño Bolsonaro was seen as kind of a loud and obnoxious lawmaker, who would just get into these shouting matches in Congress, would deliver these fiery speeches. archived recording (jair bolsonaro) (SPEAKING PORTUGUESE) ernesto londoño He became infamous for saying things that were very offensive about women. archived recording (jair bolsonaro) (SPEAKING PORTUGUESE) ernesto londoño About blacks. archived recording (jair bolsonaro) (SPEAKING PORTUGUESE) ernesto londoño About gays. archived recording (jair bolsonaro) (SPEAKING PORTUGUESE) ernesto londoño He made the news, for instance, when he got into a shouting match with a female lawmaker. archived recording (jair bolsonaro) (SPEAKING PORTUGUESE) ernesto londoño And told her that she was too ugly to rape. archived recording (jair bolsonaro) (SPEAKING PORTUGUESE) ernesto londoño And the most startling thing, and it was the theme he went back and back to, was his praise for the era of military rule. archived recording (jair bolsonaro) (SPEAKING PORTUGUESE) ernesto londoño That Brazil needed strong men at the helm and that this experiment with democracy was not taking the country in the right direction. michael barbaro So just as kind of modern democratic Brazil is coming into form, it sounds like Bolsonaro is entering politics, but is pushing in the other direction, for less democracy, more authoritarianism. ernesto londoño Absolutely. He essentially made the case, only the military can run this large, unwieldy country effectively. And we’re wasting our time thinking that this experiment with democracy is going to take us anywhere productive. michael barbaro And what was the response to moments like that? ernesto londoño Largely speaking, people started saying, well, that’s just Bolsonaro being Bolsonaro. He made headlines. He was admonished. He was criticized. But he was not somebody who was really taken seriously. He was not somebody who was center stage when big deals were being negotiated. For most of his career, he was a little bit of a sideshow. And at the same time — archived recording In Brazil, Petrobras recently made what could be the world’s biggest oil discovery since the 1970s. ernesto londoño Lula had a remarkably successful first term as president, and Brazilians started seeing some pretty sweeping changes. Brazil, like much of the region, was enjoying a commodities boom. archived recording The discovery could mean that Brazil will become one of the world’s leading oil exporters. ernesto londoño There were some pretty groundbreaking policies that paved the way for people from poor families, people from rural communities, for the first time to go to university. archived recording In just seven years, almost 30 million Brazilians have joined the ranks of the middle class, some helped by government handouts, others through improved education, which leads to higher wages. ernesto londoño There was a sense that inequality was diminishing in a country where it’s long been really hard to move up the ladder. And Brazil started aspiring to great things. Brazil started making alliances with other large economies, like Russia and China and South Africa, and kind of projecting itself on the world stage as a rising power. I think this all became crystal clear, just kind of a sense of optimism and the sense that Brazil seemed unstoppable, when — archived recording I have the honor to announce that the Games of the 31st Olympiad are awarded to the city of Rio de Janeiro. [CROWD CHEERS] ernesto londoño In 2009, Brazil beat the odds and won the rights to host the 2016 Olympic Games. And, you know, looking back now at how optimistic, you know, the scenes of people partying on the beach in Copacabana, just celebrating this major triumph for Brazil, it seems impossible to think now that the seeds of what would happen next had already been planted. And the reality was that underneath this triumphant country that seemed to be rising into a bright new era, underneath all that, there was a lot of rot. And it would take a few years for people here to discover just how much. [music]  michael barbaro So, Ernesto, how did this rot that you describe, this ugliness beneath the surface, eventually get exposed? ernesto londoño Well, things in Brazil started taking a definite turn for the worse in 2014. Two major things happened. On the one hand, the economy, which had been on a slide, entered into recession. On the other hand, a team of investigators stumbled into a major scandal while they were looking at some funny financial transactions, initially at a gas station. archived recording 1 In the past week, Brazilians have had wall-to-wall coverage of a political scandal threatening to bring down the country’s government. It first came to light when Brazilian police uncovered a money laundering operation at a car wash. archived recording 2 It’s known as Operation Car Wash. ernesto londoño That quickly reached very, very deeply into very powerful politicians and the top companies in Brazil. archived recording 1 The investigation centers on a billion-dollar corruption scandal at Brazil’s mammoth oil corporation, Petrobras. archived recording 2 Petrobras is one of Brazil’s biggest companies. It’s alleged senior officials took almost $700 million in bribes when awarding construction contracts. Many that may have taken bribes are linked to the government. ernesto londoño We’re talking about massive companies that had entire departments with the task of paying bribes to politicians. archived recording 1 The speaker of Brazil’s lower house of Congress has been charged over alleged involvement in a corruption scandal at the state-run — archived recording 2 News breaking in the last hour that the former president of Brazil is being detained by police after a raid on his home and office — ernesto londoño It soon became apparent to Brazilians that corruption had been institutionalized. archived recording Five former Brazilian presidents, nearly one out of three cabinet ministers, and almost one out of three senators have been indicted or investigated. michael barbaro And what was the reaction in the general Brazilian public once all this corruption comes to light? ernesto londoño There was outrage. archived recording [CHANTING] ernesto londoño As these scandals started engulfing some of the pillars of the economy here, some of the biggest companies in the country, unemployment goes up, people’s purchasing power goes down, and state governments start going bankrupt. archived recording [CHANTING] ernesto londoño In some places, this means the police aren’t getting paid. And people start seeing a surge of violence. archived recording With more than 50,000 violent deaths every year, Brazil has one of the world’s highest homicide rates. ernesto londoño They go from a period of feeling optimistic and almost euphoric about the future to a period of despair and anguish. michael barbaro And where is Bolsonaro in all of this? ernesto londoño Bolsonaro is one of the rarer veteran lawmakers who has not really been splattered by these corruption investigations. And at this time, he starts getting a fair amount of traction. All of a sudden, this guy who had kind of been a fringe character comes more into sync with how Brazilians were feeling about their lot in life. archived recording (jair bolsonaro) (SPEAKING PORTUGUESE) ernesto londoño Around 2016, he starts telling people that he wants to take a shot at the presidency. archived recording (jair bolsonaro) (SPEAKING PORTUGUESE) ernesto londoño And the way he spread his message was unique in the history of Brazilian presidential races. He was campaigning largely by sitting in front of a phone, which was often shaky. archived recording (jair bolsonaro) (SPEAKING PORTUGUESE) ernesto londoño And just broadcasting videos live on Facebook, on Instagram. archived recording (jair bolsonaro) (SPEAKING PORTUGUESE) ernesto londoño Where he was speaking to people as though they were long-lost friends. archived recording (jair bolsonaro) (SPEAKING PORTUGUESE) ernesto londoño It was completely unscripted, oftentimes stream-of-consciousness. He would jump from one subject to another. archived recording (jair bolsonaro) (SPEAKING PORTUGUESE) ernesto londoño And I think people saw that as pretty refreshing. People were so disgusted with politics as usual in the political establishment that they saw in this guy, who had been in the fringes for so long, somebody who could radically reinvent the system. archived recording [CHANTING] michael barbaro And does he have the stature at this moment to do that? ernesto londoño When the very first rumblings of a Bolsonaro presidential bid start coming up, people laughed it off. The conventional wisdom was he’s too extreme. He’s too outside of the norm. But despite the skepticism, by the end of 2017, it became pretty clear that Bolsonaro’s message had strong appeal across the country. archived recording [CHANTING] michael barbaro And what exactly is he promising on the campaign trail that the Brazilian people are finding so compelling? ernesto londoño On corruption, he was very clear in stating that he was going have no patience for business as usual. And that under his tenure — archived recording (jair bolsonaro) (SPEAKING PORTUGUESE) ernesto londoño People who were corrupt had tons to fear. But I think the main promise he made to his supporters was that he was going to take extraordinary measures to restore security. And we’re talking about pretty draconian things. Bolsonaro, for example, once said, “A good criminal is a dead criminal.” archived recording (jair bolsonaro) (SPEAKING PORTUGUESE) ernesto londoño He made it clear he was essentially going to give the police free rein to shoot suspected criminals on the spot. archived recording (jair bolsonaro) (SPEAKING PORTUGUESE) ernesto londoño The third thing he did, which was unusual, was surround himself with military leaders and make them kind of a core base of support. The military had been largely out of sight in politics in Brazil for the past three decades. So this was a pretty bold move, but actually one that captured people’s imagination as they longed for a system that was more orderly and more secure. michael barbaro So this cranky, often outrageous character is starting to connect with people. ernesto londoño Absolutely. archived recording [CHANTING] ernesto londoño However, I think it’s important to note that there were a couple of pretty crucial turning points that turbocharged his presidential bid. archived recording Brazil’s former president, Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, is to stand trial for allegedly accepting over $1 million in bribes. ernesto londoño Early last year, former president Lula, who had been the front-runner according to opinion polls, and who was trying to make a bid for a third term in the presidential palace, got jailed. And after he gets jailed on corruption and money laundering charges, he essentially becomes disqualified, and his party is in disarray. And then you fast forward a few months, and in September of last year, there’s a very dramatic moment when, on the campaign trail, Bolsonaro is marching through the streets of a small town, surrounded by supporters. And a man lunges toward him with a big kitchen knife and stabs him in the stomach. archived recording [SIRENS] Jair Bolsonaro has been left in a serious but stable condition in hospital, this after being stabbed while drumming up support ahead of next month’s vote. Hospital officials say it could take two months for him to recover. ernesto londoño He was essentially knocked off the campaign trail for the remainder of the race. He was in a hospital bed, and then he was in his apartment, and communicating virtually only through social media. archived recording (jair bolsonaro) (SPEAKING PORTUGUESE) ernesto londoño People, I think, saw in this moment the kind of violence that he was railing against in a really crystallized form. This incident that could have easily ended his life ended up propelling his bid. archived recording [CHANTING] The breaking news is the far-right candidate Jair Bolsonaro has won Brazil’s presidential race. ernesto londoño And after this happens, in October, he has a decisive victory. michael barbaro And what is the reaction across Brazil to this victory? ernesto londoño Brazil emerges from the election pretty polarized. Somebody who had been a very, very long shot for the presidency was able to not just win, but win decisively. However, you also have many communities in the country that feel extraordinarily unsafe in this new Brazil and that worry that the country under Bolsonaro’s watch could well transition into a new era of authoritarian rule. michael barbaro I wonder what Bolsonaro’s election means for Brazil, which, as you told us earlier, is just 30 years from having been a military dictatorship and turned to democracy and seems to have had a pretty rocky journey. ernesto londoño I think it illustrates that many people, not just in Brazil but across Latin America, have become very cynical about democracy, at least the version of democracy they were seeing. Many Brazilians felt that they were being governed by thieves, who just kept getting elected by playing the old political playbook. And I think, in the specific case of Bolsonaro, who comes with a history of having championed authoritarian rule, of wanting to govern very closely with senior military leaders, the promise of order, even if it came at the price of a rollback of civil liberties and of democracy, it was a price many Brazilians were perfectly willing to pay. michael barbaro So to change this system that seems to not be working, it feels like Brazilians want to shock the system and perhaps test its limits, which sounds a little bit like what’s going on in the United States. ernesto londoño Absolutely. When I talked to people on the campaign trail, you know, I was really startled by the level of anguish that they expressed and their willingness to take big risks on a leader who was untested and who comes with all these question marks. michael barbaro Ernesto, thank you very much. ernesto londoño Thank you. michael barbaro Just weeks after his swearing in, when Bolsonaro vowed to, quote, “rid Brazil of corruption,” he faced charges that his own administration was engaging in more of the same. Brazilian prosecutors are investigating the mysterious movement of more than $300,000 in and out of bank accounts controlled by the driver of Bolsonaro’s oldest son, a state lawmaker, and why some of those payments went to Bolsonaro’s wife. At the same time, Bolsonaro has appointed three government ministers who were previously implicated in investigations of corruption. Mr. Bolsonaro has long been an apologist for the military dictatorship that ruled Brazil for more than two decades, but he was elected by an ample margin and Brazil is now very much a democracy. A former army captain who served for decades in the Brazilian congress, Mr. Bolsonaro vaulted onto the international scene by winning his country’s elections last year. He made his first international appearance as president when he attended the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, in January. At the White House on Tuesday, Mr. Bolsonaro pledged that the United States and Brazil would “stand side by side in their efforts to ensure liberties and respect to traditional family lifestyles, respect to God our creator against the gender ideology or the politically correct attitudes, and against fake news.” A few minutes later, Mr. Trump said he was “very proud to hear the president use the term ‘fake news.’” In an interview on Fox News on Monday night, Mr. Bolsonaro lashed out at the news media — much the way Mr. Trump often does — for what he said were inaccurate representations of his past statements about race and women, including having said at one point that “yes, I am homophobic — and very proud of it.” “If it were all that, I would not at all have been elected president,” Mr. Bolsonaro told Shannon Bream of Fox. “So there’s a great deal of fake news certainly around — the Brazilian population has after all learned how to use social media. And they no longer trust or believe the Brazilian mainstream media, which is virtually dominated by the left wing.” Mr. Bolsonaro insisted that “I have nothing against homosexuals or women — I’m not a xenophobe.” With Mr. Bolsonaro by his side at the White House, Mr. Trump lashed out at social media companies like Twitter and Facebook, accusing them of being “collusive” with his critics and discriminating against conservatives and Republicans. Reacting to a lawsuit filed against social media companies by Representative Devin Nunes, a California Republican and one of his supporters, Mr. Trump hinted that he was prepared to take action against what he called “unfair” practices by the companies. “Well, we have to do something, I tell you,” Mr. Trump said. “If they’re in a certain group, there’s discrimination and big discrimination,” he said. “I see it absolutely on Twitter and Facebook.” Mr. Trump also criticized television networks. “The incredible thing is that we can win an election and we have such a stacked deck, and that includes networks.” Mr. Trump and Mr. Bolsonaro said they discussed the future of Venezuela, and Mr. Trump praised his counterpart for Brazil’s humanitarian aid to Venezuela and support for Juan Guaidó, the self-declared interim president. Responding to a question about why sanctions by the United States have so far failed to force Nicolás Maduro, the Venezuela’s socialist leader, to surrender his grip on the presidency, Mr. Trump said that the United States had still not imposed the toughest sanctions possible. “We really haven’t done the really tough sanctions yet,” Mr. Trump said. “We can do the tough sanctions, and all options are open. We can go a lot tougher if we need to do that.” Earlier in the day, the Treasury Department imposed a new round of sanctions against Minerven, Venezuela’s state-owned gold-mining company and its president, Adrian Antonio Perdomo Mata, as part of its effort to increase pressure to the Maduro government. It accused Minerven of propping up Mr. Maduro through “illicit gold operations,” including paying independent miners for gold with “nearly worthless bolívars” to sustain the military. “The illegitimate Maduro regime is pillaging the wealth of Venezuela while imperiling indigenous people by encroaching on protected areas and causing deforestation and habitat loss,” Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said. Appearing with Mr. Bolsonaro in the Oval Office before their meeting, Mr. Trump said that he knew “exactly” what he wanted to happen in Venezuela, but he declined to say what that was. He said that all options were on the table, including the use of the military. Asked about the possibility of joining the United States in a potential military action against Venezuela, Mr. Bolsonaro declined to answer, saying that “these reserved issues, which may be discussed, if they have not yet, will not become public.” Mr. Bolsonaro’s visit to Washington received mixed reviews at home, where many Brazilians were outraged to hear him praise the Trump administration’s plan to build a wall along the Mexican border and say a majority of immigrants who head to the United States do not have “good intentions.” The satire website Sensacionalista mocked Mr. Bolsonaro for concessions announced during the trip: waiving the visa requirement for United States citizens visiting Brazil and agreeing to allow companies from the United States to launch commercial satellites from a base near the Equator. “In exchange for the use of our base and the visa exemption for Americans, the president will come home with a Trump baseball cap,” the article said. “It’s actually an incredible location when you study it, and when you see it,” Mr. Trump said on Tuesday, referring to the agreement Mr. Bolsonaro had announced allowing United States companies to launch satellites from a base in Alcantara, along the north coast of Brazil. “We won’t go into it now, but because of the location, tremendous amounts of money would be saved. To put it very simply, the flights are a lot shorter.” Brazil experts in the United States said the visit had gone well and would most likely establish a foundation for closer cooperation between the two largest economies in the Americas. “We can point to the removal of visa restrictions by Brazil on U.S. citizens as a signal that Brazil is working to reduce barriers to engagement,” said Roberta Braga, an associate director at the Atlantic Council’s Adrienne Arsht Latin America Center. Alan Rappeport contributed reporting from Washington, and Ernesto Londoño from Brazil. Supported by The president’s tax returns would provide insight into how much money he is making, or losing, each year, but they would not fully illuminate the sources of his wealth. By Susanne Craig and Jesse Drucker Democrats are hoping that President Trump’s federal tax returns will serve as a Rosetta stone to unlock the secrets of his murky finances.  Mr. Trump, on the other hand, has spent the past three years refusing to divulge the returns and even dismissing them as boring. Now, the fight over whether members of Congress have the right to see the president’s tax returns is intensifying. The House tax-writing committee has demanded them, and late Wednesday, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said his department would not comply with the request by the date set by the committee. Earlier in the day, Mr. Trump repeated that he would not disclose his returns, falsely claiming that there is no law that gives Congress the authority to obtain them.  Mr. Trump is the first president in four decades to not publicly release his tax returns. The refusal — coupled with his continued ownership of a far-flung network of closely held businesses — has fanned suspicions that he has something to hide.  So, what might lawmakers find if they obtain Mr. Trump’s tax filings? For starters, his recent returns could illuminate the sources of his income and any tax-avoidance strategies he may have used, but it would not fully decode the family’s personal and business finances. Leaked pages of the president’s old tax returns and other financial documents already have shed light on his finances. They indicate that Mr. Trump most likely avoided paying income taxes for a number of years and that in other periods The New York Times found he participated in fraudulent tax schemes to minimize his tax bill. His federal ethics filings show hundreds of millions of dollars in outstanding loans and a business network owned through a web of corporate entities. The House Ways and Means Committee last week requested six years of Mr. Trump’s personal tax returns, along with the returns filed by one of his trusts and seven subsidiaries he controls. They also asked for records of any audits.  The returns would partly reveal the sources of the president’s income, and whether his businesses are profitable. They would show how much, if anything, Mr. Trump has been paying in taxes and might show whether he has been aggressive in reducing his tax bills. They will show whether Mr. Trump has personally donated to charity. The returns requested by the committee, however, would not fully answer longstanding questions about the identities of Mr. Trump’s business partners, the ultimate sources of his income or whether he is entangled with entities that have interests before his administration.  Even if Representative Richard E. Neal, Democrat of Massachusetts, who leads the committee, is successful, it does not mean the tax returns will become public. By law, they are supposed to remain solely in the hands of the committee; an unauthorized release would be a felony. [Update: House chairman says treasury’s reasons to withhold Trump’s tax returns “lack merit.”] Ever since he declared his candidacy, Mr. Trump — a self-proclaimed billionaire — has faced questions about whether he is exaggerating his wealth. Mr. Trump has never substantiated his assertion that he is a billionaire, though he has repeatedly made the claim to banks and other institutions. The disclosure of his tax returns probably would not settle the debate over Mr. Trump’s net worth. Tax returns do not provide lists of assets or liabilities, unless they generate income or deductions. Even then, the returns most likely would not provide values of those assets or liabilities. Still, Mr. Trump’s full tax returns — his personal returns and the ones for all of the components of the Trump Organization — would give a sense of the profitability of his businesses.  The returns would also reveal whether his companies have taken a hit since he entered the White House. (Mr. Trump has said he has lost vast amounts of money since he became president.) Mr. Trump for years ran the Trump Organization, a privately held company that manages real estate, golf resorts, brand and licensing deals and other interests. Much about the businesses’ finances remains unknown.  The federal ethics disclosures Mr. Trump has made about his holdings so far have been limited. For example, there is no requirement that he report the identities of investors who have put money into his businesses.  Mr. Trump acquired many properties, in particular golf courses, with cash, but where did that cash come from? Mr. Trump’s son Eric once told a journalist that the Trump Organization’s golf properties were paid for with Russian money. Eric Trump has denied making that statement.  While Mr. Trump’s federal filings have reported some outstanding loans, investments and income from each business, they do not include debts where he has a partial interest or older loans that have been paid off. In theory, the existence of those older loans — and the lenders behind them — could be disclosed on his historical tax returns because certain types of interest on debts can be tax-deductible. In reality, much of that information is unlikely to be contained in the limited number of returns requested by Congress. The panel is seeking the returns for only a small number of Mr. Trump’s companies. But he controls hundreds of separate L.L.C.s that contain individual businesses, as varied as a particular building or the rights to license his name overseas. Each one of those businesses may file its own tax return, separate from the ones requested by the committee. Mr. Trump owns and operates businesses in the United States and overseas. He earns revenue from golf club memberships, from leasing space in his buildings and from licensing deals to put the “Trump” name on other developers’ properties.  Mr. Trump’s government disclosure reports show ranges of how much revenue his various subsidiaries collect, as provided by Mr. Trump, but they do not indicate the companies’ overall profitability. For example, his most recent government ethics report states that his Irish golf business reported revenue of $14 million in 2017. However, Irish regulators require that the golf subsidiary make its filings public. Those disclosures show the business actually lost about $2 million that year. Mr. Trump’s returns could provide further detail about the profitability of his other businesses. More broadly, his tax returns can be compared with the ethics disclosures to check the accuracy of the filings. Mr. Trump’s personal tax returns will also itemize his stock- and bond-market transactions and people and institutions he is receiving income from, domestic and foreign. This would include income he has received from banks. If Democrats get Mr. Trump’s taxes, they will be looking for any aggressive or illegal maneuvers — such as the fraudulent tactics he has used in the past. Sophisticated tax filers use their returns to paint the picture of their finances they want the government to see. It usually takes a lot of digging to find out what is going on behind the numbers. For example, as The New York Times reported last year, Mr. Trump and his siblings set up a sham corporation in the early 1990s to disguise millions of dollars in gifts from their parents. In that case, The Times had access to far more than just tax returns: It also relied on confidential business filings, public records and information from sources to document the fraud. At the time the article was published, a lawyer for the president, Charles J. Harder, said the allegations of fraud and tax evasion were 100 percent false, and highly defamatory. What will be more immediately apparent in Mr. Trump’s tax returns is what sort of deductions he has used to reduce his tax bill, and how aggressively he has used them. In 1995, for example, Mr. Trump paid no income tax, and records show he has not paid income tax in several other years.  The president has said he has avoided taxes because of the generous deductions given to real estate owners like himself. One deduction is depreciation, which permits real estate investors to deduct a portion of the cost of their buildings from their taxable income. “I have a write-off. A lot of it is depreciation, which is a wonderful charge,” he said during a presidential debate in 2016. “I love depreciation.” Susanne Craig is an investigative reporter who writes about the intersection of politics, money and government. She has covered Wall Street for The Times and has served as Albany bureau chief. Previously, she was a reporter at The Wall Street Journal and worked at The Globe and Mail in Canada.  @susannecraig 

Supported by The president’s tax returns would provide insight into how much money he is making, or losing, each year, but they would not fully illuminate the sources of his wealth. By Susanne Craig and Jesse Drucker Democrats are hoping that President Trump’s federal tax returns will serve as a Rosetta stone to unlock the secrets of his murky finances.  Mr. Trump, on the other hand, has spent the past three years refusing to divulge the returns and even dismissing them as boring. Now, the fight over whether members of Congress have the right to see the president’s tax returns is intensifying. The House tax-writing committee has demanded them, and late Wednesday, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said his department would not comply with the request by the date set by the committee. Earlier in the day, Mr. Trump repeated that he would not disclose his returns, falsely claiming that there is no law that gives Congress the authority to obtain them.  Mr. Trump is the first president in four decades to not publicly release his tax returns. The refusal — coupled with his continued ownership of a far-flung network of closely held businesses — has fanned suspicions that he has something to hide.  So, what might lawmakers find if they obtain Mr. Trump’s tax filings? For starters, his recent returns could illuminate the sources of his income and any tax-avoidance strategies he may have used, but it would not fully decode the family’s personal and business finances. Leaked pages of the president’s old tax returns and other financial documents already have shed light on his finances. They indicate that Mr. Trump most likely avoided paying income taxes for a number of years and that in other periods The New York Times found he participated in fraudulent tax schemes to minimize his tax bill. His federal ethics filings show hundreds of millions of dollars in outstanding loans and a business network owned through a web of corporate entities. The House Ways and Means Committee last week requested six years of Mr. Trump’s personal tax returns, along with the returns filed by one of his trusts and seven subsidiaries he controls. They also asked for records of any audits.  The returns would partly reveal the sources of the president’s income, and whether his businesses are profitable. They would show how much, if anything, Mr. Trump has been paying in taxes and might show whether he has been aggressive in reducing his tax bills. They will show whether Mr. Trump has personally donated to charity. The returns requested by the committee, however, would not fully answer longstanding questions about the identities of Mr. Trump’s business partners, the ultimate sources of his income or whether he is entangled with entities that have interests before his administration.  Even if Representative Richard E. Neal, Democrat of Massachusetts, who leads the committee, is successful, it does not mean the tax returns will become public. By law, they are supposed to remain solely in the hands of the committee; an unauthorized release would be a felony. [Update: House chairman says treasury’s reasons to withhold Trump’s tax returns “lack merit.”] Ever since he declared his candidacy, Mr. Trump — a self-proclaimed billionaire — has faced questions about whether he is exaggerating his wealth. Mr. Trump has never substantiated his assertion that he is a billionaire, though he has repeatedly made the claim to banks and other institutions. The disclosure of his tax returns probably would not settle the debate over Mr. Trump’s net worth. Tax returns do not provide lists of assets or liabilities, unless they generate income or deductions. Even then, the returns most likely would not provide values of those assets or liabilities. Still, Mr. Trump’s full tax returns — his personal returns and the ones for all of the components of the Trump Organization — would give a sense of the profitability of his businesses.  The returns would also reveal whether his companies have taken a hit since he entered the White House. (Mr. Trump has said he has lost vast amounts of money since he became president.) Mr. Trump for years ran the Trump Organization, a privately held company that manages real estate, golf resorts, brand and licensing deals and other interests. Much about the businesses’ finances remains unknown.  The federal ethics disclosures Mr. Trump has made about his holdings so far have been limited. For example, there is no requirement that he report the identities of investors who have put money into his businesses.  Mr. Trump acquired many properties, in particular golf courses, with cash, but where did that cash come from? Mr. Trump’s son Eric once told a journalist that the Trump Organization’s golf properties were paid for with Russian money. Eric Trump has denied making that statement.  While Mr. Trump’s federal filings have reported some outstanding loans, investments and income from each business, they do not include debts where he has a partial interest or older loans that have been paid off. In theory, the existence of those older loans — and the lenders behind them — could be disclosed on his historical tax returns because certain types of interest on debts can be tax-deductible. In reality, much of that information is unlikely to be contained in the limited number of returns requested by Congress. The panel is seeking the returns for only a small number of Mr. Trump’s companies. But he controls hundreds of separate L.L.C.s that contain individual businesses, as varied as a particular building or the rights to license his name overseas. Each one of those businesses may file its own tax return, separate from the ones requested by the committee. Mr. Trump owns and operates businesses in the United States and overseas. He earns revenue from golf club memberships, from leasing space in his buildings and from licensing deals to put the “Trump” name on other developers’ properties.  Mr. Trump’s government disclosure reports show ranges of how much revenue his various subsidiaries collect, as provided by Mr. Trump, but they do not indicate the companies’ overall profitability. For example, his most recent government ethics report states that his Irish golf business reported revenue of $14 million in 2017. However, Irish regulators require that the golf subsidiary make its filings public. Those disclosures show the business actually lost about $2 million that year. Mr. Trump’s returns could provide further detail about the profitability of his other businesses. More broadly, his tax returns can be compared with the ethics disclosures to check the accuracy of the filings. Mr. Trump’s personal tax returns will also itemize his stock- and bond-market transactions and people and institutions he is receiving income from, domestic and foreign. This would include income he has received from banks. If Democrats get Mr. Trump’s taxes, they will be looking for any aggressive or illegal maneuvers — such as the fraudulent tactics he has used in the past. Sophisticated tax filers use their returns to paint the picture of their finances they want the government to see. It usually takes a lot of digging to find out what is going on behind the numbers. For example, as The New York Times reported last year, Mr. Trump and his siblings set up a sham corporation in the early 1990s to disguise millions of dollars in gifts from their parents. In that case, The Times had access to far more than just tax returns: It also relied on confidential business filings, public records and information from sources to document the fraud. At the time the article was published, a lawyer for the president, Charles J. Harder, said the allegations of fraud and tax evasion were 100 percent false, and highly defamatory. What will be more immediately apparent in Mr. Trump’s tax returns is what sort of deductions he has used to reduce his tax bill, and how aggressively he has used them. In 1995, for example, Mr. Trump paid no income tax, and records show he has not paid income tax in several other years.  The president has said he has avoided taxes because of the generous deductions given to real estate owners like himself. One deduction is depreciation, which permits real estate investors to deduct a portion of the cost of their buildings from their taxable income. “I have a write-off. A lot of it is depreciation, which is a wonderful charge,” he said during a presidential debate in 2016. “I love depreciation.” Susanne Craig is an investigative reporter who writes about the intersection of politics, money and government. She has covered Wall Street for The Times and has served as Albany bureau chief. Previously, she was a reporter at The Wall Street Journal and worked at The Globe and Mail in Canada.  @susannecraig transcript With Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt And what would a fair college admissions system look like? Thursday, March 21st, 2019 michelle goldberg I’m Michelle Goldberg. ross douthat I’m Ross Douthat. david leonhardt I’m David Leonhardt. And this is “The Argument.” This week, is President Trump causing white supremacist terrorism or is he a red herring? jamelle bouie This kind of violence precedes Trump. david leonhardt Then what does a fair college admission system look like? ross douthat There were still efforts by these schools to not admit exclusively the stupidest heirs of shipping families. david leonhardt And finally a recommendation. michelle goldberg It is one of the great scams of our age. david leonhardt In an interview last week President Trump suggested that his supporters might resort to violence if they didn’t get their way. Two days later a gunman killed at least 50 people in two mosques in New Zealand and the suspected killer’s manifesto cited Trump’s friendliness to white nationalism. Today we want to talk about whether it’s fair to draw a connection between Trump and white nationalist violence. Is he part of the problem or is he a symptom of an underlying illness? To talk about this and more our colleague Jamelle Bouie is calling in from Charlottesville, Virginia. Welcome back to the show Jamelle. jamelle bouie Thank you for having me. david leonhardt And hello Michelle and Ross. michelle goldberg Hey there. ross douthat Hey David. david leonhardt Jamelle, how do you think about the state of the white supremacy movement right now? Do you think it’s growing? Do you think it’s always sort of out there in a small but meaningful way and it’s getting more attention right now? jamelle bouie So I think it’s more or less kind of an ever present part of American society. It’s hard to look at any given period in American history where there has not been some kind of organized movement of white supremacists and specifically like virulent and violent white supremacists. At times they even have explicit state sanction. I think what we have to remember is that depending on the times in American history, those movements have kind of a different relationship to societies. So the second Ku Klux Klan in the late 1910s and 1920s exists more or less to bolster mainstream ideas about Americanism and the predominance of kind of a white Anglo-Saxon America. In this current iteration it is taking the kind of autonomous cell model of the ‘80s and ‘90s that shows up — Timothy McVeigh, the Oklahoma City bomber, was part of this “leaderless resistance” is the term they use — and kind of super charging that. ross douthat I mean to me, Jamelle, you know, I have conservative politics that overlaps with other people’s populist politics which in turn overlaps with some people who are sort of scarily close to some of these fringe views. And it seems to me that there’s been a big shift, mostly internet and sort of outside events-driven, in the last five or six years. I think one way to look at it which is really well illustrated in the horrifying New Zealand case is a kind of globalization of European anxiety. Where you’ve had a large trend towards immigration and cultural conflict around Islam in Europe going on for years and decades that was sort of brought to a sharp point by the Syrian refugee crisis, the rise of ISIS, the wave of ISIS-inspired bombings. Which in turn created this kind of white identitarian theory of the world that then found acolytes in North America, all the way in Australia and New Zealand. That sort of took pieces of the European experience as a normative state of global whiteness that then became an inspiration in these cases for violence. And at the same time I think it’s connected to what you might call a kind of crisis of the white Christian church in the western world where you have a lot of children who grow up in what seem like failing, culturally irrelevant forms of Christianity who often end up with a sort of contempt for Christianity but don’t turn to the left because of that. They turn to this sort of racial identity. michelle goldberg And then you have this nihilistic troll culture and it seems like one of the ways in which there’s no politician, as far as I know, anywhere on earth who more effectively bridges 8chan shit-posting with European replacement theory. Right? That’s Donald Trump. And so to me it’s not necessarily that I think Donald Trump has inspired this movement, but I do have to think that his success, right? The fact that if you’re going to give up your life in the service of this act of horrific mass violence it’s usually because you think that that horrific act of mass violence is going to get you closer to this grandiose goal. One of the things that Donald Trump has done is made it feel like their dreams are slightly less impossible. Right? That a basically white supremacist shitposter can become president of the United States. And so maybe this dreamed-for revolution really can happen. david leonhardt I want to home in on Trump’s role here. I mean to me it’s really clear that Trump plays a causal role in this. If you look at the rise of racism and anti-Semitism on social media. That’s the way I read the data. There is a pretty significant increase in the different data sets. Now they’re imperfect and I guess I want to see whether any of you, probably most likely Ross, disagrees with the idea — he’s not the only cause of this but the fact that we have a white nationalist as the president United States is making this stuff more common. jamelle bouie Yeah I guess I think I see it in terms of to use a decent historical analogy, I see it in terms of the relationship between Andrew Johnson and kind of anti-black vigilante violence in the immediate post-Civil War period. It’s not that Andrew Johnson caused any of it but that he didn’t give a shit, right? [LAUGHS] He didn’t care much about it. At times when it happened he excused it and that was felt and heard by people on the ground. And so his indifference, his occasional sort of like complicity in it then creates an atmosphere where people willing to inflict violence decide that maybe they can get away with it. Or maybe if it’s done to send a message, that message will get some kind of amplification by a powerful political leader. And I think that’s kind of the important dynamic. I’m not sure I would attribute a causal mechanism but there is a feedback loop happening. michelle goldberg The other piece of it is that I feel like Trump’s election has convinced these people, has convinced white nationalists, that they have much wider support than they’d realized. Right? I mean I think that most terrorists act out of a sense that they’re acting on behalf of a greater silent population. There was a poll out recently that shows that something like 19 percent of people believe that Trump opposes white nationalism. What that tells you is that a large number of his supporters believe that Trump does not, in fact, oppose white nationalism. And so again I feel like if you you’re willing to take these kind of steps, if you believe that there are people behind you, if you believe that you’re going to have some kind of support or even some sort of catalytic effect, that you’re going to spark some sort of uprising. ross douthat I think I’m closer to Jamelle’s take than Michelle’s. I think the right way to understand Trump is that yeah, he’s someone who doesn’t give a shit about white nationalism. And that the president of the United States is a powerful office with a lot of cultural influence. And that undoubtedly has toxic effects on the culture that have some kind of role in spreading these ideas, making them seem more credible and so on. I think calling Trump a white nationalist is a sort of analytic mistake. I mean we’ve had this discussion before, what counts as white nationalism? But I think it imputes a level of ideology to him that he doesn’t have. I think it’s more reasonable to call him sort of a bigot or a racist than a white nationalist. I guess I’d put it this way: I think all of these things would be happening with or without Donald Trump and I think the conversation that we had for most of this episode about the causes is much more important to the next 20 years of world history than what Trump himself is or isn’t doing. So I think it’s good and right to condemn how Trump handles this stuff and how he enables people. But I don’t think ultimately either the most extreme people acting out or the general drift is being driven that much by some idea that Donald Trump was elected and now we can build the white ethnostate. I think the dreams of the white ethnostate are responses to much broader dislocations, anxieties, transformations of which Trump is himself a kind of particularly striking epiphenomenon. david leonhardt I’m not saying Trump is causing all of this but I really don’t think that this would all be the same if Trump hadn’t run his campaign. I mean Trump has this 30-plus year history of racism right. Going back to the ads in the newspapers about the Central Park case and then he runs for office and he runs a more race-conscious and racist campaign than we’ve basically seen in our adult lifetime. And along with that we have a surge of racism and anti-Semitism online and in graffiti and as best as we can tell in the numbers in actual crimes. And so I’m not saying he’s the main cause but I just don’t think it’s enough to say that he just doesn’t care about white nationalism and that all of this would be happening if he hadn’t showed that it’s possible to go out and say these things and still be elected president. jamelle bouie I mean I guess I think that it’s tough for me to disentangle that two. Like if you’re me and you think that one of the through lines of the history of Western society from 1945 to the present is the slow motion collapse of race hierarchy, or at least a slow motion collapse of race hierarchy in its most explicit forms, and that lots of things are happening in reaction to that, then you can look at Trump, like Ross said, as an epiphenomena of that. His entire career, right? Like someone who’s casual bigotry and casual racism and acted on racism kind of just makes him a curiosity at first in national life. But as time goes on and it becomes more part of his public persona. And also it’s hard for me to say if Trump wasn’t there how much of this would be happening. The year, actually the week that Trump announced his campaign, Dylann Roof killed nine people in Charleston. Right? Sort of like this kind of violence precedes Trump. It was in planning before Trump and I feel like the most I’m willing to say about any causal relationship is just that like, Trump’s campaign, his style, his disregard, his willingness to elevate people kind of adjacent to that world, has — to borrow terminology from the last decade of politics — aid and comfort to the enemy. Right? But. I’m not sure it’s causal. david leonhardt Let’s end here. And I’d be interested in each of your thoughts quickly: how do you think this plays with the American public at this point? Trump obviously thinks it still plays well. I mean he ran the closing week of the midterm campaign basically running what I would describe as this kind of white nationalist message. How much do you think this actually helps him heading into 2020 or hurts him at this point? Jamelle? jamelle bouie It’s always easier for me to start from like my baseline view of things. And my baseline view of things is that if Trump could somehow stop talking until November 2020 he will win re-election. Right? Like background conditions in American society are good enough that if people could just forget that Donald Trump was president he would win. Donald Trump’s problem is that he cannot stop talking, that he cannot stop reminding people that he is president and he does so in the most kind of aggressive and offensive and disheartening ways. And so to the extent that his language and rhetoric here does that, remind people of all the things they specifically dislike about President Donald Trump, it hurts him and cannot help him. david leonhardt Michelle? michelle goldberg You know Donald Trump is a minority president, right? He was elected with a minority coalition. His re-election depends on a sort of minority rule in the United States and the perpetuation of minority rule in the United States. And so inasmuch as that’s the bet that he’s made, the way he keeps that base united, I think, is to keep giving them what they want, which is a president who will completely embrace their racial and cultural grievances and desire to spite their enemies. And so if he became a more decent man, which he can’t become, he might expand his coalition a little bit but he would lessen its intensity. ross douthat I think Michelle is right that there is a portion of Trump’s base that sort of responds to not just his comments but also sort of media attacks on his comments by ending up binding more tightly to him. But in general I’m with Jamelle. I think the only time the sort of flirtation with white nationalism stuff really helped Trump was very early in the Republican primaries when he was trying to build an initial base of support. That’s why he started out with birtherism. It helped him become a candidate with supporters. But at this point, you know, the economy is good. A different version of Trumpism that was more authentically populist on economics and was not constantly flirting with white nationalism I think would be much more electorally effective. I don’t think this stuff hurts him as much as most people who read The New York Times think it should hurt him. But I don’t think it helps him in any meaningful way. david leonhardt O.K. we’re going to leave it there and take a quick break and we will be right back to talk about the big college admissions scandal. It’s the story that bourgeois America can’t stop talking about. news clip Flurry of new indictments today ensnaring celebrities, CEOs, college coaches in a massive scheme to game the college admissions system. david leonhardt Last week federal prosecutors charged 50 people in a scheme to buy spots in elite colleges. The details were amazing bald lies about athletic prowess, a doctored photo of a football player, straight up cheating on standardized tests. The story has led many people to ask what the purpose of these elite colleges actually is and what it should be. Ross, you had a thought-provoking argument about this topic this week and I’ve been noodling over your argument ever since. So why don’t you spin it out for us so we can talk about it. ross douthat Well this is just a return to my usual theme which is that meritocracy is a failure. And I was trying to be contrarian relative to people who said well look, this shows how meritocracy is corrupted and people can buy their way into schools if they’re rich and fake SAT scores and so on. And actually I mean I think the faking of SAT scores is actually a testament to meritocracy in the sense that it turns out that the rich kids can’t get into these schools unless they literally fake having high enough SAT scores. david leonhardt That hours of tutoring are not enough basically. ross douthat The hours of tutoring are not enough. Right? So in that sense if all you’re concerned about is, is the system selecting for smart kids this kind of scandal should not shake your confidence in it. My question is whether it actually makes sense to have a system where you’re telling everyone all we’re doing is selecting for smart kids and that it is good that elite schools maybe have both affirmative action programs and legacy admission programs and that this is better than a world where the elite schools were sort of purely meritocratic and only admitted kids with 1600s on their SATs. michelle goldberg But what is the possible defense of legacy admissions? ross douthat The reason schools do it is that they want to have families and sort of intergenerational loyalties that are sort of invested in the school and the school’s success. The more radical argument is that every society has an elite and it’s not a bad thing to have elites that have a sense of stewardship and continuity and legacy admissions are not the worst way to bring that about. That you want an elite that has some continuity from generation to generation. That is obviously well outside the norm of arguments in our democratic society. But it seems to me that it might be true. I’m curious what Jamelle thinks of my strange right-wing defense of affirmative action. jamelle bouie So this is like an area of potential convergence here because I agree that there is no real meritocracy in American society. And to the extent that there is meritocracy a kind of is like a transmission. It acts to transmit inherited advantages. So if we accept that, if we kind of buy the premise that meritocracy isn’t necessarily a great way of distributing resources like access to elite colleges — and elite colleges I’m just going to define here is not just like you’re Harvard or Yale but kind of like the highly selective schools overall. Remember with this scandal some of the kids were trying to get into USC. david leonhardt And I think it’s important to add public schools to it, right? I mean Jamelle you’re talking to us from Charlottesville. The University of Virginia, University of North Carolina, Michigan, Berkeley: they’re all part of this as well. jamelle bouie Right. You’ve I mean UVA — I’m a UVA grad and UVA in its conception was basically to cultivate a political and social elite for the state of Virginia. That’s what it was designed to do. If that’s what these institutions are actually doing, in addition to they’re being research institutions, they do provide education but if they also are cultivating elites, then I’m with Ross. I’d rather it be something explicit that we can have a discussion about rather than submerged under a bunch of pretense. Two things really influence my thinking here. The first is sociologist Orlando Patterson years ago had a book, “The Ordeal of Integration,” where he makes a case for affirmative action. And his case for affirmative action isn’t about merit. It’s simply about in any sufficiently elite organization what’s going to happen is that people are just going to be selecting people who are similar to them. So if we want those institutions to be more diverse, to better reflect the country, then we should just mandate that they take people who look differently. The second thing is the other big college education scandal that has happened this year and that is the T.M. Landry College Prep school scandal. It was a small private school in Louisiana, in a high poverty town. And the school’s graduates were overwhelmingly black, poor or both. And the school was sending class after class to Ivy League schools. It turns out that what it was doing is it was either falsifying grades and activities or creating kind of fake sob stories that appeal to the heartstrings of white elites who want to do a solid for a poor black kid from Louisiana. The interesting thing about this is that those kids, many of them did fine at these schools. Maybe they had a hard time for the first year but they got better and they’re doing fine. And that to me says something about the schools themselves which is that the idea that you have to score in the top echelon of anything to succeed at them is not true. michelle goldberg Right. It’s kind of being at the school that makes you succeed. jamelle bouie Right, exactly. And if that’s true then, you know, let’s drop the pretense of meritocracy then. Let’s just say, as Ross suggested, that what we’re doing here is kind of cultivating an elite. We want that elite to look like the United States, not just in terms of racial diversity but in regional diversity and religious diversity and so on so forth. And we go from there. And then we we make our decisions based off of that. Versus, again, the pretense which there are times I think pretense is actually quite important; American politics the past 20 years is one of them. But here I think we can drop it somewhat. david leonhardt The thing I don’t completely understand though is what’s the logical extension of the argument that you’re making. So if you say, hey, these elite schools should have more regional diversity than they do, I’m with you. And the University of Texas has this great system that’s mostly worked extremely well in which they took what was originally the top 10 percent of each high school class. If you say they should be more racially diverse than they are more economically diverse, I’m with you the whole way. But then how do you pick who gets into the University of Texas or the University of Virginia or Harvard once you’ve done that. I don’t think you’re actually — either Jamelle or Ross — suggesting that we sort of have a lottery for these slots. I think we do want some meritocracy as part of the process. michelle goldberg Right, you went like a balancing of meritocracy and representation. ross douthat Right. david leonhardt Yes, exactly. ross douthat But there has always been that balance, right? Like even in the — to reference my most popular column ever — even in the old days of WASP hegemony, right, there were still efforts by these schools to not admit exclusively the stupidest heirs of shipping families, right? david leonhardt Some efforts but those efforts didn’t go that far. [LAUGHS] ross douthat But I think people overestimate how hostile the past was to talent. Right? Of course you want an elite to be talented but you can say, if you’re an elite school we’re gonna set a minimum SAT score pegged to the average distribution of SAT scores in this ethnic group or region or whatever. So we’re going to ensure that we’re not admitting people who can’t handle the work at all. You obviously don’t get rid of some sort of bias towards merit but you assume that the system right now might be too biased towards merit. And again this is the elite level. I think there’s a larger conversation here about how Harvard and Yale have pretended that they’re in the mass opportunity game which they’re not. They’re tiny elite schools. And meanwhile the rest of American higher ed has pretended that they’re all like Harvard and Yale when in fact what we need is state schools to have a different approach, and Catholic schools to have a different approach, and historically black colleges to have a different approach. We need much more investment in community college and vocational education. But definitely this shift in how elite colleges approach things would have to go hand-in-hand with a shift in like how you know mid-level state universities handle things. And there might be a case that like certain kinds of public universities should be more meritocratic and should be, you know, only doing it based on tests, and you know that you should have a lot of different approaches. michelle goldberg I mean the one reason why sort of meritocratic ideals are so important is because they create an illusion of fairness around what’s an extremely unfair system. And so the underlying kind of structural thing here is that we have such a massively unequal society that we have this insane kind of funnel system in which we decide who deserves not just opportunity, but sort of, you know, dignity, health, a decent life. Right? And so once you start kind of saying that we’re going to allocate a healthy existence through getting into these few schools — which in many cases means kind of excelling on these standardized tests — you completely deform educational incentives starting pretty far back and then you make the stakes of this process just kind of intolerably high for everyone. jamelle bouie One thing I want to add to this discussion: just as I think being from Virginia, having attended a public school, part of the solution here in terms of taking pressure and taking the weight off of the scramble to get in to sort of like ultra-elite schools is, in addition to having a more equal society, also having a society where opportunities are just more broadly distributed. To really succeed in a major way you have to kind of uproot yourself from your community and move to a major city, maybe even in a completely different state. It does kind of make it more important, then, to attain some kind of credential that is recognized nationally which is what a Harvard degree is or Yale degree is. But if you can get an education at Virginia Tech and then find an opportunity in Virginia or in North Carolina, things are more regional in terms of the distribution of like elites, then it kind of diffuses all of this tension. ross douthat I mean that was the American system for a long time, that you had some national elite but it was a narrow elite and there were regional elites that you could get into. And I mean I think it is still especially the case in the South. Jamelle you can correct me if I’m wrong, but my sense is that these sort of regional schools have more pull in the South than elsewhere and that on the coasts it sort of all the Ivy hierarchy that people think about. david leonhardt This is good because I was the most cynical person in the first segment and I think I’m the least cynical person in this segment. I mean to me this is not an illusion of meritocracy it’s a highly flawed meritocracy. And I’m really glad that this scandal is pushing colleges to think more about the ways in which they’re not meritocratic. But the one way in which I think I am supremely cynical is sports. The whole reason that people were able to get these kids in is because of the ludicrously large bonuses that athletes get when applying and the huge share of students at these schools who are athletes. I mentioned this week in my email newsletter that about 20 percent of students at Williams College, an elite college in Massachusetts, are recruited athletes. It turns out I was way too conservative. It’s closer to 30 percent. Thirty percent of entering students at Williams College each year are recruited athletes, and Williams is not some massive outlier. Do you all agree with me that a system in which sports played a smaller role. I’m not saying no role but a smaller role in higher education would be healthy. michelle goldberg I would say no role no role. ross douthat I would say this, I think a world where sports played less of a role at big state schools would be better. I think there’s a lot of evidence that the effects of big time sports, big time college programs on campus culture is really toxic. I think having jocks at elite schools is fine. david leonhardt So Ross you think the current level is is O.K.? You think having 25 or 30 percent of students at these schools be recruited athletes, many in sports that no one goes out to watch, many in sports that are overwhelmingly white and affluent, that’s O.K.? ross douthat I mean look if you’re asking would I cut it in order to have big quotas for conservative Catholics, of course. Of course I would. [GOLDBERG AND LEONHARDT LAUGH] michelle goldberg So you know everyone knows that I am a sports hater. But instead of sort of lowering the stakes by offering more routes into these kind of elite schools, it seems to me that this sports culture just ends up kind of raising them by expecting kids to excel along all these different axes or expecting them to prove some like really fraudulent kind of well-roundedness. I feel like you talk to people — and I wasn’t part of this culture at all. I mean I don’t think I even really knew what the Ivy League schools were when I was applying to school. There was nobody really shepherding me through this process. And so I’m sort of an outsider to it. But now I’m a parent and the thing that I dread for my child, for my children the most is sort of trying to put them through all of these different paces or make them spend you know their one and only adolescence engaging in kind of pointless extracurricular activities or test prepping or doing all of the things that get you ready for this Hunger Games competition. And so it seems like we’ve created this culture where just like entire families are supposed to orient their lives to getting through a process that is both sort of corrupted and pointless. You know it’s not just about how we create the elite. It’s such a profound waste of time and energy and, you know, the limited number of days we have on this earth. ross douthat I think we’re all parents whose kids are thankfully too young to be fully immersed in this madness. But the truth is you know that we can joke about the idea of replacing the system with a lottery but frankly wouldn’t it be kind of fantastic if it was just this totally random lottery and there was nothing you could do as a parent. david leonhardt And on that utopian note we will leave this discussion. Jamelle thank you so much for joining us. jamelle bouie Thank you so much for having me. david leonhardt Now it’s time for our weekly recommendation when we give you a suggestion of something to take your mind off of politics. This week it’s your turn, Michelle. What do you have for us? michelle goldberg So I’m a little late to this but I’m going to recommend the ABC podcast “The Dropout.” It’s a series about Elizabeth Holmes and a kind of ginormous scam that was Theranos. And it is one of the great scams of our age. You know probably a lot of our listeners know this, right, it was meant to revolutionize the way blood tests were done and revolutionize the health care sector. And it had all these super powerful people investing in it. And she had like little Theranos clinics set up in Walgreens and it was just a total scam. It just didn’t work. And it’s this amazing thing because you listen as all of these people inside the company know that this thing doesn’t work. They know that it’s a scam. And yet it gets bigger and bigger. She’s on more and more magazine covers. She’s interviewed by Bill Clinton at the Clinton Global Initiative. You know she becomes the youngest ever female self-made billionaire. And it’s all built on nothing. And yet and it took so long to come out. I mean it’s both you know sort of a fascinating story in its own right and such a perfect metaphor for our age of grift. david leonhardt Well I’ve listened to it too and I really liked it. And at one point I thought to myself oh my goodness if someone were trying to prank Silicon Valley to come up with the biggest cliche of a company that was just a scam, Ttis is what they do. I mean they’d dress like Steve Jobs the way she did. michelle goldberg Right. david leonhardt The one thing I think it’s important to add is that much of this is based on reporting by John Carreyrou of the Wall Street Journal and he has a book out on the scandal called “Bad Blood.” And although I haven’t read it a couple of friends of mine have and they say it’s great and it’s an enormously quick read. So there’s the documentary. There’s the book and there’s the podcast. ross douthat My wife has read the book and I highly recommend it. So I can recommend it by proxy. david leonhardt Excellent. Michelle again what’s the name of the podcast. michelle goldberg It’s called “The Dropout.“. david leonhardt We’re going to end this week’s episode by hearing from you our listeners. A lot of you had strong opinions about our episode last week and we wanted to take a moment to give you a chance to air your grievances and opinions. Here goes. listener voicemails Hey guys. Hi, my name is Summer. Hi, my name’s Kathy Keeler. Hi my name’s Jonathan Power. Hey this is Amir calling from Los Angele,s California. I’m calling about Ross’s love of Spindriff. I just wanted to say when Ross was recommending Spindriff at the end of the episode — I was just listening to the bit at the end of the episode where you’re talking about sparkling water. Ross, your idea about seltzer water is one of the best recommendations I’ve heard. I just wanted to reinforce our amazing Spindrift is wrong. Ross, I appreciate your recommendation for Spindrift and at the same time, you don’t need a blind taste test to explain why or how it tastes better. The reason it can’t play better is because it actually has literal fruit juice in it. It has three grams of sugar in each can. That’s stuff’s pretty good but it’s unfair to make that like your favorite because it’s sweetened. It has fruit juice in it. I wanted to just say one word to you: SodaStream. I love the seltzer it makes and you can also control the amount of bubbles. You’ll be helping the environment, saving yourself some money and also having as much bubbles as you like. Kroger has these cola flavored sparkling waters. [DOUTHAT AND LEONHARDT LAUGH] They have regular cola, Dr. Pepper and root beer. So those are my favorite. Enjoy, bye bye. I hope you all have a great day! Thanks. That’s my recommendation this week. Thanks. Thanks guys I love the podcast. [ALL LAUGH] ross douthat So we’re starting a self-serving podcast obviously. It’s going to be all seltzer. david leonhardt Apparently we already have. michelle goldberg And after that, as you guys know, after that podcast I became a convert. You know it’s the only time I think I will ever say that Ross was totally right. david leonhardt A convert not just to seltzer but to Spindrift? michelle goldberg Yeah not to Catholicism. david leonhardt Or conservatism. ross douthat It’s a gateway drug Michelle. david leonhardt Here let me leave you all with this. [CAN OPENING, BUBBLES FIZZING SOUND] As you can obviously tell we like to hear your feedback so please leave us a voicemail at 347-915-4324. That’s 347-915-4324. No doubt there are a few seltzer brands that we have not yet mentioned on this show. You can also email us at argument@nytimes.com. If you like what you hear we would very much like it if you would leave us a reading or review in Apple podcasts. This week’s show was produced by Alex Laughlin for Transmitter Media and edited by Lacy Roberts. Our executive producer is Gretta Cohn. We had help from Tyson Evans, Phoebe Lett, Ian Prasad Philbrick and Francis Ying. Our theme was composed by Allison Leyton-Brown. We will see you back here next week. Ross have you listened to it? ross douthat I only listened to our podcast, David. [GOLDBER G AND LEONHARDT LAUGH] Has it been on our podcast? Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device:  Apple Podcasts | Spotify | Google Play | RadioPublic | Stitcher This week on “The Argument,” how much blame does President Trump deserve for white supremacist attacks like the New Zealand mosque shooting? Michelle Goldberg argues that the president bridges racist ideology and the internet’s nihilistic troll culture. Ross Douthat thinks European anxieties toward immigrants and Islam have gone global. David Leonhardt points to data that shows rising hate crimes and racist speech parallel to Trump’s rise. And returning guest Jamelle Bouie likens Trump to Andrew Johnson, a president whose indifference toward racist violence helped embolden it. Then, the four columnists debate what a fairer system of higher education might look like. In the wake of the Operation Varsity Blues college admissions scandal, how should meritocracy, elitism and college sports be handled? And finally, Michelle recommends a recent podcast that spotlights yet another chapter in this American age of grift. Background Reading: Ross on the college admissions scandal, the WASPs and the case against meritocracy Michelle on the college admissions scandal, Elizabeth Holmes and our scam economy David on Trump’s encouragement for white-nationalist violence, Trump’s history of racism and the college admissions scandal as sports scandal Jamelle on white supremacy and the New Zealand shooting and how Trump channels reactionary white majoritarianism I’ve been an Op-Ed columnist since 2009, and I write about politics, religion, pop culture, sociology and the places where they all intersect. I’m a Catholic and a conservative, in that order, which means that I’m against abortion and critical of the sexual revolution, but I tend to agree with liberals that the Republican Party is too friendly to the rich. I was against Donald Trump in 2016 for reasons specific to Donald Trump, but in general I think the populist movements in Europe and America have legitimate grievances and I often prefer the populists to the “reasonable” elites. I’ve written books about Harvard, the G.O.P., American Christianity and Pope Francis; I’m working on one about decadence. Benedict XVI was my favorite pope. I review movies for National Review and have strong opinions about many prestige television shows. I have three small children, two girls and a boy, and I live in New Haven with my wife. I’ve been an Op-Ed columnist at The New York Times since 2017, writing mainly about politics, ideology and gender. These days people on the right and the left both use “liberal” as an epithet, but that’s basically what I am, though the nightmare of Donald Trump’s presidency has radicalized me and pushed me leftward. I’ve written three books, including one, in 2006, about the danger of right-wing populism in its religious fundamentalist guise. (My other two were about the global battle over reproductive rights and, in a brief detour from politics, about an adventurous Russian émigré who helped bring yoga to the West.) I love to travel; a long time ago, after my husband and I eloped, we spent a year backpacking through Asia. Now we live in Brooklyn with our son and daughter. I’ve worked at The Times since 1999 and have been an Op-Ed columnist since 2016. I caught the journalism bug a very long time ago — first as a little kid in the late 1970s who loved reading the Boston Globe sports section and later as a teenager working on my high school and college newspapers. I discovered that when my classmates and I put a complaint in print, for everyone to see, school administrators actually paid attention. I’ve since worked as a metro reporter at The Washington Post and a writer at BusinessWeek magazine. At The Times, I started as a reporter in the business section and have also been a Times Magazine staff writer, the Washington bureau chief and the founding editor of The Upshot. My politics are left of center. But I’m also to the right of many Times readers. I think education reform has accomplished a lot. I think two-parent families are good for society. I think progressives should be realistic about the cultural conservatism that dominates much of this country. Most of all, however, I worry deeply about today’s Republican Party, which has become dangerously extreme. This country faces some huge challenges — inequality, climate change, the rise of China — and they’ll be very hard to solve without having both parties committed to the basic functioning of American democracy. Tune in on iTunes, Google Play, Spotify, Stitcher or wherever you listen to podcasts. Tell us what you think at argument@nytimes.com. Follow Michelle Goldberg (@michelleinbklyn), Ross Douthat (@DouthatNYT) and David Leonhardt (@DLeonhardt) on Twitter.  This week’s show is produced by Alex Laughlin for Transmitter Media and edited by Lacy Roberts. Our executive producer is Gretta Cohn. We had help from Tyson Evans, Phoebe Lett, Ian Prasad Philbrick and Francis Ying. Our theme is composed by Allison Leyton-Brown.

transcript With Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt And what would a fair college admissions system look like? Thursday, March 21st, 2019 michelle goldberg I’m Michelle Goldberg. ross douthat I’m Ross Douthat. david leonhardt I’m David Leonhardt. And this is “The Argument.” This week, is President Trump causing white supremacist terrorism or is he a red herring? jamelle bouie This kind of violence precedes Trump. david leonhardt Then what does a fair college admission system look like? ross douthat There were still efforts by these schools to not admit exclusively the stupidest heirs of shipping families. david leonhardt And finally a recommendation. michelle goldberg It is one of the great scams of our age. david leonhardt In an interview last week President Trump suggested that his supporters might resort to violence if they didn’t get their way. Two days later a gunman killed at least 50 people in two mosques in New Zealand and the suspected killer’s manifesto cited Trump’s friendliness to white nationalism. Today we want to talk about whether it’s fair to draw a connection between Trump and white nationalist violence. Is he part of the problem or is he a symptom of an underlying illness? To talk about this and more our colleague Jamelle Bouie is calling in from Charlottesville, Virginia. Welcome back to the show Jamelle. jamelle bouie Thank you for having me. david leonhardt And hello Michelle and Ross. michelle goldberg Hey there. ross douthat Hey David. david leonhardt Jamelle, how do you think about the state of the white supremacy movement right now? Do you think it’s growing? Do you think it’s always sort of out there in a small but meaningful way and it’s getting more attention right now? jamelle bouie So I think it’s more or less kind of an ever present part of American society. It’s hard to look at any given period in American history where there has not been some kind of organized movement of white supremacists and specifically like virulent and violent white supremacists. At times they even have explicit state sanction. I think what we have to remember is that depending on the times in American history, those movements have kind of a different relationship to societies. So the second Ku Klux Klan in the late 1910s and 1920s exists more or less to bolster mainstream ideas about Americanism and the predominance of kind of a white Anglo-Saxon America. In this current iteration it is taking the kind of autonomous cell model of the ‘80s and ‘90s that shows up — Timothy McVeigh, the Oklahoma City bomber, was part of this “leaderless resistance” is the term they use — and kind of super charging that. ross douthat I mean to me, Jamelle, you know, I have conservative politics that overlaps with other people’s populist politics which in turn overlaps with some people who are sort of scarily close to some of these fringe views. And it seems to me that there’s been a big shift, mostly internet and sort of outside events-driven, in the last five or six years. I think one way to look at it which is really well illustrated in the horrifying New Zealand case is a kind of globalization of European anxiety. Where you’ve had a large trend towards immigration and cultural conflict around Islam in Europe going on for years and decades that was sort of brought to a sharp point by the Syrian refugee crisis, the rise of ISIS, the wave of ISIS-inspired bombings. Which in turn created this kind of white identitarian theory of the world that then found acolytes in North America, all the way in Australia and New Zealand. That sort of took pieces of the European experience as a normative state of global whiteness that then became an inspiration in these cases for violence. And at the same time I think it’s connected to what you might call a kind of crisis of the white Christian church in the western world where you have a lot of children who grow up in what seem like failing, culturally irrelevant forms of Christianity who often end up with a sort of contempt for Christianity but don’t turn to the left because of that. They turn to this sort of racial identity. michelle goldberg And then you have this nihilistic troll culture and it seems like one of the ways in which there’s no politician, as far as I know, anywhere on earth who more effectively bridges 8chan shit-posting with European replacement theory. Right? That’s Donald Trump. And so to me it’s not necessarily that I think Donald Trump has inspired this movement, but I do have to think that his success, right? The fact that if you’re going to give up your life in the service of this act of horrific mass violence it’s usually because you think that that horrific act of mass violence is going to get you closer to this grandiose goal. One of the things that Donald Trump has done is made it feel like their dreams are slightly less impossible. Right? That a basically white supremacist shitposter can become president of the United States. And so maybe this dreamed-for revolution really can happen. david leonhardt I want to home in on Trump’s role here. I mean to me it’s really clear that Trump plays a causal role in this. If you look at the rise of racism and anti-Semitism on social media. That’s the way I read the data. There is a pretty significant increase in the different data sets. Now they’re imperfect and I guess I want to see whether any of you, probably most likely Ross, disagrees with the idea — he’s not the only cause of this but the fact that we have a white nationalist as the president United States is making this stuff more common. jamelle bouie Yeah I guess I think I see it in terms of to use a decent historical analogy, I see it in terms of the relationship between Andrew Johnson and kind of anti-black vigilante violence in the immediate post-Civil War period. It’s not that Andrew Johnson caused any of it but that he didn’t give a shit, right? [LAUGHS] He didn’t care much about it. At times when it happened he excused it and that was felt and heard by people on the ground. And so his indifference, his occasional sort of like complicity in it then creates an atmosphere where people willing to inflict violence decide that maybe they can get away with it. Or maybe if it’s done to send a message, that message will get some kind of amplification by a powerful political leader. And I think that’s kind of the important dynamic. I’m not sure I would attribute a causal mechanism but there is a feedback loop happening. michelle goldberg The other piece of it is that I feel like Trump’s election has convinced these people, has convinced white nationalists, that they have much wider support than they’d realized. Right? I mean I think that most terrorists act out of a sense that they’re acting on behalf of a greater silent population. There was a poll out recently that shows that something like 19 percent of people believe that Trump opposes white nationalism. What that tells you is that a large number of his supporters believe that Trump does not, in fact, oppose white nationalism. And so again I feel like if you you’re willing to take these kind of steps, if you believe that there are people behind you, if you believe that you’re going to have some kind of support or even some sort of catalytic effect, that you’re going to spark some sort of uprising. ross douthat I think I’m closer to Jamelle’s take than Michelle’s. I think the right way to understand Trump is that yeah, he’s someone who doesn’t give a shit about white nationalism. And that the president of the United States is a powerful office with a lot of cultural influence. And that undoubtedly has toxic effects on the culture that have some kind of role in spreading these ideas, making them seem more credible and so on. I think calling Trump a white nationalist is a sort of analytic mistake. I mean we’ve had this discussion before, what counts as white nationalism? But I think it imputes a level of ideology to him that he doesn’t have. I think it’s more reasonable to call him sort of a bigot or a racist than a white nationalist. I guess I’d put it this way: I think all of these things would be happening with or without Donald Trump and I think the conversation that we had for most of this episode about the causes is much more important to the next 20 years of world history than what Trump himself is or isn’t doing. So I think it’s good and right to condemn how Trump handles this stuff and how he enables people. But I don’t think ultimately either the most extreme people acting out or the general drift is being driven that much by some idea that Donald Trump was elected and now we can build the white ethnostate. I think the dreams of the white ethnostate are responses to much broader dislocations, anxieties, transformations of which Trump is himself a kind of particularly striking epiphenomenon. david leonhardt I’m not saying Trump is causing all of this but I really don’t think that this would all be the same if Trump hadn’t run his campaign. I mean Trump has this 30-plus year history of racism right. Going back to the ads in the newspapers about the Central Park case and then he runs for office and he runs a more race-conscious and racist campaign than we’ve basically seen in our adult lifetime. And along with that we have a surge of racism and anti-Semitism online and in graffiti and as best as we can tell in the numbers in actual crimes. And so I’m not saying he’s the main cause but I just don’t think it’s enough to say that he just doesn’t care about white nationalism and that all of this would be happening if he hadn’t showed that it’s possible to go out and say these things and still be elected president. jamelle bouie I mean I guess I think that it’s tough for me to disentangle that two. Like if you’re me and you think that one of the through lines of the history of Western society from 1945 to the present is the slow motion collapse of race hierarchy, or at least a slow motion collapse of race hierarchy in its most explicit forms, and that lots of things are happening in reaction to that, then you can look at Trump, like Ross said, as an epiphenomena of that. His entire career, right? Like someone who’s casual bigotry and casual racism and acted on racism kind of just makes him a curiosity at first in national life. But as time goes on and it becomes more part of his public persona. And also it’s hard for me to say if Trump wasn’t there how much of this would be happening. The year, actually the week that Trump announced his campaign, Dylann Roof killed nine people in Charleston. Right? Sort of like this kind of violence precedes Trump. It was in planning before Trump and I feel like the most I’m willing to say about any causal relationship is just that like, Trump’s campaign, his style, his disregard, his willingness to elevate people kind of adjacent to that world, has — to borrow terminology from the last decade of politics — aid and comfort to the enemy. Right? But. I’m not sure it’s causal. david leonhardt Let’s end here. And I’d be interested in each of your thoughts quickly: how do you think this plays with the American public at this point? Trump obviously thinks it still plays well. I mean he ran the closing week of the midterm campaign basically running what I would describe as this kind of white nationalist message. How much do you think this actually helps him heading into 2020 or hurts him at this point? Jamelle? jamelle bouie It’s always easier for me to start from like my baseline view of things. And my baseline view of things is that if Trump could somehow stop talking until November 2020 he will win re-election. Right? Like background conditions in American society are good enough that if people could just forget that Donald Trump was president he would win. Donald Trump’s problem is that he cannot stop talking, that he cannot stop reminding people that he is president and he does so in the most kind of aggressive and offensive and disheartening ways. And so to the extent that his language and rhetoric here does that, remind people of all the things they specifically dislike about President Donald Trump, it hurts him and cannot help him. david leonhardt Michelle? michelle goldberg You know Donald Trump is a minority president, right? He was elected with a minority coalition. His re-election depends on a sort of minority rule in the United States and the perpetuation of minority rule in the United States. And so inasmuch as that’s the bet that he’s made, the way he keeps that base united, I think, is to keep giving them what they want, which is a president who will completely embrace their racial and cultural grievances and desire to spite their enemies. And so if he became a more decent man, which he can’t become, he might expand his coalition a little bit but he would lessen its intensity. ross douthat I think Michelle is right that there is a portion of Trump’s base that sort of responds to not just his comments but also sort of media attacks on his comments by ending up binding more tightly to him. But in general I’m with Jamelle. I think the only time the sort of flirtation with white nationalism stuff really helped Trump was very early in the Republican primaries when he was trying to build an initial base of support. That’s why he started out with birtherism. It helped him become a candidate with supporters. But at this point, you know, the economy is good. A different version of Trumpism that was more authentically populist on economics and was not constantly flirting with white nationalism I think would be much more electorally effective. I don’t think this stuff hurts him as much as most people who read The New York Times think it should hurt him. But I don’t think it helps him in any meaningful way. david leonhardt O.K. we’re going to leave it there and take a quick break and we will be right back to talk about the big college admissions scandal. It’s the story that bourgeois America can’t stop talking about. news clip Flurry of new indictments today ensnaring celebrities, CEOs, college coaches in a massive scheme to game the college admissions system. david leonhardt Last week federal prosecutors charged 50 people in a scheme to buy spots in elite colleges. The details were amazing bald lies about athletic prowess, a doctored photo of a football player, straight up cheating on standardized tests. The story has led many people to ask what the purpose of these elite colleges actually is and what it should be. Ross, you had a thought-provoking argument about this topic this week and I’ve been noodling over your argument ever since. So why don’t you spin it out for us so we can talk about it. ross douthat Well this is just a return to my usual theme which is that meritocracy is a failure. And I was trying to be contrarian relative to people who said well look, this shows how meritocracy is corrupted and people can buy their way into schools if they’re rich and fake SAT scores and so on. And actually I mean I think the faking of SAT scores is actually a testament to meritocracy in the sense that it turns out that the rich kids can’t get into these schools unless they literally fake having high enough SAT scores. david leonhardt That hours of tutoring are not enough basically. ross douthat The hours of tutoring are not enough. Right? So in that sense if all you’re concerned about is, is the system selecting for smart kids this kind of scandal should not shake your confidence in it. My question is whether it actually makes sense to have a system where you’re telling everyone all we’re doing is selecting for smart kids and that it is good that elite schools maybe have both affirmative action programs and legacy admission programs and that this is better than a world where the elite schools were sort of purely meritocratic and only admitted kids with 1600s on their SATs. michelle goldberg But what is the possible defense of legacy admissions? ross douthat The reason schools do it is that they want to have families and sort of intergenerational loyalties that are sort of invested in the school and the school’s success. The more radical argument is that every society has an elite and it’s not a bad thing to have elites that have a sense of stewardship and continuity and legacy admissions are not the worst way to bring that about. That you want an elite that has some continuity from generation to generation. That is obviously well outside the norm of arguments in our democratic society. But it seems to me that it might be true. I’m curious what Jamelle thinks of my strange right-wing defense of affirmative action. jamelle bouie So this is like an area of potential convergence here because I agree that there is no real meritocracy in American society. And to the extent that there is meritocracy a kind of is like a transmission. It acts to transmit inherited advantages. So if we accept that, if we kind of buy the premise that meritocracy isn’t necessarily a great way of distributing resources like access to elite colleges — and elite colleges I’m just going to define here is not just like you’re Harvard or Yale but kind of like the highly selective schools overall. Remember with this scandal some of the kids were trying to get into USC. david leonhardt And I think it’s important to add public schools to it, right? I mean Jamelle you’re talking to us from Charlottesville. The University of Virginia, University of North Carolina, Michigan, Berkeley: they’re all part of this as well. jamelle bouie Right. You’ve I mean UVA — I’m a UVA grad and UVA in its conception was basically to cultivate a political and social elite for the state of Virginia. That’s what it was designed to do. If that’s what these institutions are actually doing, in addition to they’re being research institutions, they do provide education but if they also are cultivating elites, then I’m with Ross. I’d rather it be something explicit that we can have a discussion about rather than submerged under a bunch of pretense. Two things really influence my thinking here. The first is sociologist Orlando Patterson years ago had a book, “The Ordeal of Integration,” where he makes a case for affirmative action. And his case for affirmative action isn’t about merit. It’s simply about in any sufficiently elite organization what’s going to happen is that people are just going to be selecting people who are similar to them. So if we want those institutions to be more diverse, to better reflect the country, then we should just mandate that they take people who look differently. The second thing is the other big college education scandal that has happened this year and that is the T.M. Landry College Prep school scandal. It was a small private school in Louisiana, in a high poverty town. And the school’s graduates were overwhelmingly black, poor or both. And the school was sending class after class to Ivy League schools. It turns out that what it was doing is it was either falsifying grades and activities or creating kind of fake sob stories that appeal to the heartstrings of white elites who want to do a solid for a poor black kid from Louisiana. The interesting thing about this is that those kids, many of them did fine at these schools. Maybe they had a hard time for the first year but they got better and they’re doing fine. And that to me says something about the schools themselves which is that the idea that you have to score in the top echelon of anything to succeed at them is not true. michelle goldberg Right. It’s kind of being at the school that makes you succeed. jamelle bouie Right, exactly. And if that’s true then, you know, let’s drop the pretense of meritocracy then. Let’s just say, as Ross suggested, that what we’re doing here is kind of cultivating an elite. We want that elite to look like the United States, not just in terms of racial diversity but in regional diversity and religious diversity and so on so forth. And we go from there. And then we we make our decisions based off of that. Versus, again, the pretense which there are times I think pretense is actually quite important; American politics the past 20 years is one of them. But here I think we can drop it somewhat. david leonhardt The thing I don’t completely understand though is what’s the logical extension of the argument that you’re making. So if you say, hey, these elite schools should have more regional diversity than they do, I’m with you. And the University of Texas has this great system that’s mostly worked extremely well in which they took what was originally the top 10 percent of each high school class. If you say they should be more racially diverse than they are more economically diverse, I’m with you the whole way. But then how do you pick who gets into the University of Texas or the University of Virginia or Harvard once you’ve done that. I don’t think you’re actually — either Jamelle or Ross — suggesting that we sort of have a lottery for these slots. I think we do want some meritocracy as part of the process. michelle goldberg Right, you went like a balancing of meritocracy and representation. ross douthat Right. david leonhardt Yes, exactly. ross douthat But there has always been that balance, right? Like even in the — to reference my most popular column ever — even in the old days of WASP hegemony, right, there were still efforts by these schools to not admit exclusively the stupidest heirs of shipping families, right? david leonhardt Some efforts but those efforts didn’t go that far. [LAUGHS] ross douthat But I think people overestimate how hostile the past was to talent. Right? Of course you want an elite to be talented but you can say, if you’re an elite school we’re gonna set a minimum SAT score pegged to the average distribution of SAT scores in this ethnic group or region or whatever. So we’re going to ensure that we’re not admitting people who can’t handle the work at all. You obviously don’t get rid of some sort of bias towards merit but you assume that the system right now might be too biased towards merit. And again this is the elite level. I think there’s a larger conversation here about how Harvard and Yale have pretended that they’re in the mass opportunity game which they’re not. They’re tiny elite schools. And meanwhile the rest of American higher ed has pretended that they’re all like Harvard and Yale when in fact what we need is state schools to have a different approach, and Catholic schools to have a different approach, and historically black colleges to have a different approach. We need much more investment in community college and vocational education. But definitely this shift in how elite colleges approach things would have to go hand-in-hand with a shift in like how you know mid-level state universities handle things. And there might be a case that like certain kinds of public universities should be more meritocratic and should be, you know, only doing it based on tests, and you know that you should have a lot of different approaches. michelle goldberg I mean the one reason why sort of meritocratic ideals are so important is because they create an illusion of fairness around what’s an extremely unfair system. And so the underlying kind of structural thing here is that we have such a massively unequal society that we have this insane kind of funnel system in which we decide who deserves not just opportunity, but sort of, you know, dignity, health, a decent life. Right? And so once you start kind of saying that we’re going to allocate a healthy existence through getting into these few schools — which in many cases means kind of excelling on these standardized tests — you completely deform educational incentives starting pretty far back and then you make the stakes of this process just kind of intolerably high for everyone. jamelle bouie One thing I want to add to this discussion: just as I think being from Virginia, having attended a public school, part of the solution here in terms of taking pressure and taking the weight off of the scramble to get in to sort of like ultra-elite schools is, in addition to having a more equal society, also having a society where opportunities are just more broadly distributed. To really succeed in a major way you have to kind of uproot yourself from your community and move to a major city, maybe even in a completely different state. It does kind of make it more important, then, to attain some kind of credential that is recognized nationally which is what a Harvard degree is or Yale degree is. But if you can get an education at Virginia Tech and then find an opportunity in Virginia or in North Carolina, things are more regional in terms of the distribution of like elites, then it kind of diffuses all of this tension. ross douthat I mean that was the American system for a long time, that you had some national elite but it was a narrow elite and there were regional elites that you could get into. And I mean I think it is still especially the case in the South. Jamelle you can correct me if I’m wrong, but my sense is that these sort of regional schools have more pull in the South than elsewhere and that on the coasts it sort of all the Ivy hierarchy that people think about. david leonhardt This is good because I was the most cynical person in the first segment and I think I’m the least cynical person in this segment. I mean to me this is not an illusion of meritocracy it’s a highly flawed meritocracy. And I’m really glad that this scandal is pushing colleges to think more about the ways in which they’re not meritocratic. But the one way in which I think I am supremely cynical is sports. The whole reason that people were able to get these kids in is because of the ludicrously large bonuses that athletes get when applying and the huge share of students at these schools who are athletes. I mentioned this week in my email newsletter that about 20 percent of students at Williams College, an elite college in Massachusetts, are recruited athletes. It turns out I was way too conservative. It’s closer to 30 percent. Thirty percent of entering students at Williams College each year are recruited athletes, and Williams is not some massive outlier. Do you all agree with me that a system in which sports played a smaller role. I’m not saying no role but a smaller role in higher education would be healthy. michelle goldberg I would say no role no role. ross douthat I would say this, I think a world where sports played less of a role at big state schools would be better. I think there’s a lot of evidence that the effects of big time sports, big time college programs on campus culture is really toxic. I think having jocks at elite schools is fine. david leonhardt So Ross you think the current level is is O.K.? You think having 25 or 30 percent of students at these schools be recruited athletes, many in sports that no one goes out to watch, many in sports that are overwhelmingly white and affluent, that’s O.K.? ross douthat I mean look if you’re asking would I cut it in order to have big quotas for conservative Catholics, of course. Of course I would. [GOLDBERG AND LEONHARDT LAUGH] michelle goldberg So you know everyone knows that I am a sports hater. But instead of sort of lowering the stakes by offering more routes into these kind of elite schools, it seems to me that this sports culture just ends up kind of raising them by expecting kids to excel along all these different axes or expecting them to prove some like really fraudulent kind of well-roundedness. I feel like you talk to people — and I wasn’t part of this culture at all. I mean I don’t think I even really knew what the Ivy League schools were when I was applying to school. There was nobody really shepherding me through this process. And so I’m sort of an outsider to it. But now I’m a parent and the thing that I dread for my child, for my children the most is sort of trying to put them through all of these different paces or make them spend you know their one and only adolescence engaging in kind of pointless extracurricular activities or test prepping or doing all of the things that get you ready for this Hunger Games competition. And so it seems like we’ve created this culture where just like entire families are supposed to orient their lives to getting through a process that is both sort of corrupted and pointless. You know it’s not just about how we create the elite. It’s such a profound waste of time and energy and, you know, the limited number of days we have on this earth. ross douthat I think we’re all parents whose kids are thankfully too young to be fully immersed in this madness. But the truth is you know that we can joke about the idea of replacing the system with a lottery but frankly wouldn’t it be kind of fantastic if it was just this totally random lottery and there was nothing you could do as a parent. david leonhardt And on that utopian note we will leave this discussion. Jamelle thank you so much for joining us. jamelle bouie Thank you so much for having me. david leonhardt Now it’s time for our weekly recommendation when we give you a suggestion of something to take your mind off of politics. This week it’s your turn, Michelle. What do you have for us? michelle goldberg So I’m a little late to this but I’m going to recommend the ABC podcast “The Dropout.” It’s a series about Elizabeth Holmes and a kind of ginormous scam that was Theranos. And it is one of the great scams of our age. You know probably a lot of our listeners know this, right, it was meant to revolutionize the way blood tests were done and revolutionize the health care sector. And it had all these super powerful people investing in it. And she had like little Theranos clinics set up in Walgreens and it was just a total scam. It just didn’t work. And it’s this amazing thing because you listen as all of these people inside the company know that this thing doesn’t work. They know that it’s a scam. And yet it gets bigger and bigger. She’s on more and more magazine covers. She’s interviewed by Bill Clinton at the Clinton Global Initiative. You know she becomes the youngest ever female self-made billionaire. And it’s all built on nothing. And yet and it took so long to come out. I mean it’s both you know sort of a fascinating story in its own right and such a perfect metaphor for our age of grift. david leonhardt Well I’ve listened to it too and I really liked it. And at one point I thought to myself oh my goodness if someone were trying to prank Silicon Valley to come up with the biggest cliche of a company that was just a scam, Ttis is what they do. I mean they’d dress like Steve Jobs the way she did. michelle goldberg Right. david leonhardt The one thing I think it’s important to add is that much of this is based on reporting by John Carreyrou of the Wall Street Journal and he has a book out on the scandal called “Bad Blood.” And although I haven’t read it a couple of friends of mine have and they say it’s great and it’s an enormously quick read. So there’s the documentary. There’s the book and there’s the podcast. ross douthat My wife has read the book and I highly recommend it. So I can recommend it by proxy. david leonhardt Excellent. Michelle again what’s the name of the podcast. michelle goldberg It’s called “The Dropout.“. david leonhardt We’re going to end this week’s episode by hearing from you our listeners. A lot of you had strong opinions about our episode last week and we wanted to take a moment to give you a chance to air your grievances and opinions. Here goes. listener voicemails Hey guys. Hi, my name is Summer. Hi, my name’s Kathy Keeler. Hi my name’s Jonathan Power. Hey this is Amir calling from Los Angele,s California. I’m calling about Ross’s love of Spindriff. I just wanted to say when Ross was recommending Spindriff at the end of the episode — I was just listening to the bit at the end of the episode where you’re talking about sparkling water. Ross, your idea about seltzer water is one of the best recommendations I’ve heard. I just wanted to reinforce our amazing Spindrift is wrong. Ross, I appreciate your recommendation for Spindrift and at the same time, you don’t need a blind taste test to explain why or how it tastes better. The reason it can’t play better is because it actually has literal fruit juice in it. It has three grams of sugar in each can. That’s stuff’s pretty good but it’s unfair to make that like your favorite because it’s sweetened. It has fruit juice in it. I wanted to just say one word to you: SodaStream. I love the seltzer it makes and you can also control the amount of bubbles. You’ll be helping the environment, saving yourself some money and also having as much bubbles as you like. Kroger has these cola flavored sparkling waters. [DOUTHAT AND LEONHARDT LAUGH] They have regular cola, Dr. Pepper and root beer. So those are my favorite. Enjoy, bye bye. I hope you all have a great day! Thanks. That’s my recommendation this week. Thanks. Thanks guys I love the podcast. [ALL LAUGH] ross douthat So we’re starting a self-serving podcast obviously. It’s going to be all seltzer. david leonhardt Apparently we already have. michelle goldberg And after that, as you guys know, after that podcast I became a convert. You know it’s the only time I think I will ever say that Ross was totally right. david leonhardt A convert not just to seltzer but to Spindrift? michelle goldberg Yeah not to Catholicism. david leonhardt Or conservatism. ross douthat It’s a gateway drug Michelle. david leonhardt Here let me leave you all with this. [CAN OPENING, BUBBLES FIZZING SOUND] As you can obviously tell we like to hear your feedback so please leave us a voicemail at 347-915-4324. That’s 347-915-4324. No doubt there are a few seltzer brands that we have not yet mentioned on this show. You can also email us at argument@nytimes.com. If you like what you hear we would very much like it if you would leave us a reading or review in Apple podcasts. This week’s show was produced by Alex Laughlin for Transmitter Media and edited by Lacy Roberts. Our executive producer is Gretta Cohn. We had help from Tyson Evans, Phoebe Lett, Ian Prasad Philbrick and Francis Ying. Our theme was composed by Allison Leyton-Brown. We will see you back here next week. Ross have you listened to it? ross douthat I only listened to our podcast, David. [GOLDBER G AND LEONHARDT LAUGH] Has it been on our podcast? Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device:  Apple Podcasts | Spotify | Google Play | RadioPublic | Stitcher This week on “The Argument,” how much blame does President Trump deserve for white supremacist attacks like the New Zealand mosque shooting? Michelle Goldberg argues that the president bridges racist ideology and the internet’s nihilistic troll culture. Ross Douthat thinks European anxieties toward immigrants and Islam have gone global. David Leonhardt points to data that shows rising hate crimes and racist speech parallel to Trump’s rise. And returning guest Jamelle Bouie likens Trump to Andrew Johnson, a president whose indifference toward racist violence helped embolden it. Then, the four columnists debate what a fairer system of higher education might look like. In the wake of the Operation Varsity Blues college admissions scandal, how should meritocracy, elitism and college sports be handled? And finally, Michelle recommends a recent podcast that spotlights yet another chapter in this American age of grift. Background Reading: Ross on the college admissions scandal, the WASPs and the case against meritocracy Michelle on the college admissions scandal, Elizabeth Holmes and our scam economy David on Trump’s encouragement for white-nationalist violence, Trump’s history of racism and the college admissions scandal as sports scandal Jamelle on white supremacy and the New Zealand shooting and how Trump channels reactionary white majoritarianism I’ve been an Op-Ed columnist since 2009, and I write about politics, religion, pop culture, sociology and the places where they all intersect. I’m a Catholic and a conservative, in that order, which means that I’m against abortion and critical of the sexual revolution, but I tend to agree with liberals that the Republican Party is too friendly to the rich. I was against Donald Trump in 2016 for reasons specific to Donald Trump, but in general I think the populist movements in Europe and America have legitimate grievances and I often prefer the populists to the “reasonable” elites. I’ve written books about Harvard, the G.O.P., American Christianity and Pope Francis; I’m working on one about decadence. Benedict XVI was my favorite pope. I review movies for National Review and have strong opinions about many prestige television shows. I have three small children, two girls and a boy, and I live in New Haven with my wife. I’ve been an Op-Ed columnist at The New York Times since 2017, writing mainly about politics, ideology and gender. These days people on the right and the left both use “liberal” as an epithet, but that’s basically what I am, though the nightmare of Donald Trump’s presidency has radicalized me and pushed me leftward. I’ve written three books, including one, in 2006, about the danger of right-wing populism in its religious fundamentalist guise. (My other two were about the global battle over reproductive rights and, in a brief detour from politics, about an adventurous Russian émigré who helped bring yoga to the West.) I love to travel; a long time ago, after my husband and I eloped, we spent a year backpacking through Asia. Now we live in Brooklyn with our son and daughter. I’ve worked at The Times since 1999 and have been an Op-Ed columnist since 2016. I caught the journalism bug a very long time ago — first as a little kid in the late 1970s who loved reading the Boston Globe sports section and later as a teenager working on my high school and college newspapers. I discovered that when my classmates and I put a complaint in print, for everyone to see, school administrators actually paid attention. I’ve since worked as a metro reporter at The Washington Post and a writer at BusinessWeek magazine. At The Times, I started as a reporter in the business section and have also been a Times Magazine staff writer, the Washington bureau chief and the founding editor of The Upshot. My politics are left of center. But I’m also to the right of many Times readers. I think education reform has accomplished a lot. I think two-parent families are good for society. I think progressives should be realistic about the cultural conservatism that dominates much of this country. Most of all, however, I worry deeply about today’s Republican Party, which has become dangerously extreme. This country faces some huge challenges — inequality, climate change, the rise of China — and they’ll be very hard to solve without having both parties committed to the basic functioning of American democracy. Tune in on iTunes, Google Play, Spotify, Stitcher or wherever you listen to podcasts. Tell us what you think at argument@nytimes.com. Follow Michelle Goldberg (@michelleinbklyn), Ross Douthat (@DouthatNYT) and David Leonhardt (@DLeonhardt) on Twitter.  This week’s show is produced by Alex Laughlin for Transmitter Media and edited by Lacy Roberts. Our executive producer is Gretta Cohn. We had help from Tyson Evans, Phoebe Lett, Ian Prasad Philbrick and Francis Ying. Our theme is composed by Allison Leyton-Brown.Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — The Latest on President Donald Trump's meeting with South Korean President Moon Jae-in (all times local): 12:40 p.m. President Donald Trump says he's going to talk with the president of South Korea about prospects for future meetings to negotiate an end to the nuclear standoff with North Korea. Efforts to get North Korean leader Kim Jong Un (gihm jung oon) to give up his nuclear weapons tops the agenda of Trump's meeting in the Oval Office on Thursday with South Korean President Moon Jae-in. Trump says that it's going to be a "productive" day of talks and that over time "tremendous things will happen" with North Korea. Trump also says that he continues to have good relations with Kim and that they had a good meeting in Vietnam although they didn't accomplish what they wanted. A third summit between Trump and Kim has not been announced. The South Korean leader has been shuttling between Washington and Pyongyang (pyuhng-yahng) to keep the nuclear talks on track. ___ 12:15 p.m. President Donald Trump is meeting with the leader of South Korea to discuss a way forward for nuclear talks with North Korea. It is President Moon Jae-in's first meeting with Trump since an unsuccessful nuclear summit with Kim Jong Un (gihm jung oon) in February in Hanoi. And it comes amid uncertainty over whether Kim is considering backing out of negotiations or restarting nuclear and missile tests. The South Korean leader has been shuttling between Washington and Pyongyang (pyuhng-yahng) to keep the nuclear talks on track. The Korean Central News Agency said Thursday that at a party meeting on Wednesday, Kim stressed "self-reliance" in his country to "deal a telling blow to the hostile forces" that "go with bloodshot eyes miscalculating that sanctions can bring" North Korea "to its knees."

Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — The Latest on President Donald Trump's meeting with South Korean President Moon Jae-in (all times local): 12:40 p.m. President Donald Trump says he's going to talk with the president of South Korea about prospects for future meetings to negotiate an end to the nuclear standoff with North Korea. Efforts to get North Korean leader Kim Jong Un (gihm jung oon) to give up his nuclear weapons tops the agenda of Trump's meeting in the Oval Office on Thursday with South Korean President Moon Jae-in. Trump says that it's going to be a "productive" day of talks and that over time "tremendous things will happen" with North Korea. Trump also says that he continues to have good relations with Kim and that they had a good meeting in Vietnam although they didn't accomplish what they wanted. A third summit between Trump and Kim has not been announced. The South Korean leader has been shuttling between Washington and Pyongyang (pyuhng-yahng) to keep the nuclear talks on track. ___ 12:15 p.m. President Donald Trump is meeting with the leader of South Korea to discuss a way forward for nuclear talks with North Korea. It is President Moon Jae-in's first meeting with Trump since an unsuccessful nuclear summit with Kim Jong Un (gihm jung oon) in February in Hanoi. And it comes amid uncertainty over whether Kim is considering backing out of negotiations or restarting nuclear and missile tests. The South Korean leader has been shuttling between Washington and Pyongyang (pyuhng-yahng) to keep the nuclear talks on track. The Korean Central News Agency said Thursday that at a party meeting on Wednesday, Kim stressed "self-reliance" in his country to "deal a telling blow to the hostile forces" that "go with bloodshot eyes miscalculating that sanctions can bring" North Korea "to its knees."Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — U.S. President Donald Trump phoned Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Wednesday to congratulate him on his re-election, and Netanyahu said he thanked his ally for "tremendous support for Israel." Netanyahu tweeted that Trump had called him from Air Force One. The president was on a flight to Texas. Netanyahu secured a clear path to re-election on Wednesday, and a record fifth term in office, with religious-rightist parties set to hand him a parliamentary majority, despite a close contest against his main centrist challenger.  "Trump warmly congratulated (me) and the Israeli people," Netanyahu tweeted. "(I) thanked President Trump for his tremendous support for Israel, including recognition of Jerusalem and the Golan," he said. Trump said in a tweet he congratulated Netanyahu on "a great and hard-fought win." "The United States is with him and the People of Israel all the way!" he said. Breaking with decades of U.S. policy and international consensus, Trump recognized Jerusalem as Israel's capital in 2017 and Israeli sovereignty over the occupied Golan Heights last month. Trump moved the U.S. embassy to Jerusalem last May, further angering Palestinians. Netanyahu said that, in the telephone call, he also thanked Trump for designating Iran's elite Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps as a terrorist organization on Monday. In remarks to reporters at the White House, Trump said Netanyahu's re-election improved the chances of peace between Israel and the Palestinians. "Everybody says you can’t have peace in the Middle East, with Israel and the Palestinians," Trump told reporters at the White House.  "I think we have a chance. I think we have now a better chance with Bibi having won," he said, referring to Netanyahu, who leads the conservative Likud party, by his nickname. "He’s been a great ally and he’s a friend. I’d like to congratulate him on a well-thought-out race," Trump said. During the election campaign, Netanyahu highlighted his close relationship with Trump, erecting billboards showing the two leaders smiling and shaking hands. A team led by Trump's adviser and son-in-law Jared Kushner has been working on an Israeli-Palestinian peace plan, but has not disclosed details. Palestinian chief negotiator Saeb Erekat said that "Israelis have voted to preserve the status quo. They have said 'no' to peace and 'yes' to the occupation." The Palestinians demand a full return to the borders that existed before the 1967 war when Israel seized the West Bank, including East Jerusalem, and the Gaza Strip. Netanyahu said on Saturday that he would annex Israeli settlements in the occupied West Bank if he won another term in office. The last round of U.S.-brokered peace talks between Israel and the Palestinians collapsed in 2014.  (Reporting by Steve Holland in Washington and Jeffrey Heller in Jerusalem; Writing by Jeffrey Heller and Mohammad Zargham; Editing by Bernadette Baum and Jonathan Oatis)

Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — U.S. President Donald Trump phoned Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Wednesday to congratulate him on his re-election, and Netanyahu said he thanked his ally for "tremendous support for Israel." Netanyahu tweeted that Trump had called him from Air Force One. The president was on a flight to Texas. Netanyahu secured a clear path to re-election on Wednesday, and a record fifth term in office, with religious-rightist parties set to hand him a parliamentary majority, despite a close contest against his main centrist challenger.  "Trump warmly congratulated (me) and the Israeli people," Netanyahu tweeted. "(I) thanked President Trump for his tremendous support for Israel, including recognition of Jerusalem and the Golan," he said. Trump said in a tweet he congratulated Netanyahu on "a great and hard-fought win." "The United States is with him and the People of Israel all the way!" he said. Breaking with decades of U.S. policy and international consensus, Trump recognized Jerusalem as Israel's capital in 2017 and Israeli sovereignty over the occupied Golan Heights last month. Trump moved the U.S. embassy to Jerusalem last May, further angering Palestinians. Netanyahu said that, in the telephone call, he also thanked Trump for designating Iran's elite Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps as a terrorist organization on Monday. In remarks to reporters at the White House, Trump said Netanyahu's re-election improved the chances of peace between Israel and the Palestinians. "Everybody says you can’t have peace in the Middle East, with Israel and the Palestinians," Trump told reporters at the White House.  "I think we have a chance. I think we have now a better chance with Bibi having won," he said, referring to Netanyahu, who leads the conservative Likud party, by his nickname. "He’s been a great ally and he’s a friend. I’d like to congratulate him on a well-thought-out race," Trump said. During the election campaign, Netanyahu highlighted his close relationship with Trump, erecting billboards showing the two leaders smiling and shaking hands. A team led by Trump's adviser and son-in-law Jared Kushner has been working on an Israeli-Palestinian peace plan, but has not disclosed details. Palestinian chief negotiator Saeb Erekat said that "Israelis have voted to preserve the status quo. They have said 'no' to peace and 'yes' to the occupation." The Palestinians demand a full return to the borders that existed before the 1967 war when Israel seized the West Bank, including East Jerusalem, and the Gaza Strip. Netanyahu said on Saturday that he would annex Israeli settlements in the occupied West Bank if he won another term in office. The last round of U.S.-brokered peace talks between Israel and the Palestinians collapsed in 2014.  (Reporting by Steve Holland in Washington and Jeffrey Heller in Jerusalem; Writing by Jeffrey Heller and Mohammad Zargham; Editing by Bernadette Baum and Jonathan Oatis)Supported by letters After a weekend of dozens of tweets, some see signs that President Trump is increasingly mentally unbalanced. To the Editor: Re “Seeking Clues Behind Trump’s Weekend Twitter Barrage” (news article, March 19): For over two years we have watched President Trump become more and more unhinged. This past weekend should have been a frightening experience for even the most casual observer of our political situation. His disjointed attacks on the Mueller investigation and irrational rants against the late Senator John McCain should make his enablers in Congress more than nervous. It is getting harder to ignore that we apparently have an emotionally unbalanced individual as our chief executive. For Congress to ignore these obvious signs is a dereliction of duty.  Ted DicksonNew York To the Editor: President Trump’s recent tweets do not mean that he is unraveling or a madman; he is just throwing a temper tantrum. All his adult life he has surrounded himself with sycophants who catered to his every whim. Fox News has been filling that role by stroking his ego. A plausible reason for the recent tweets is not necessarily the Mueller investigation or the rebuke from Congress on his emergency declaration, but more likely that Fox News suspended the “Justice With Judge Jeanine” show Saturday night (“After a Rare Public Rebuke, Fox News Suspends a Host, to the President’s Chagrin,” news article, March 18).  His cuddly bear and enabler was taken away from him, and he lashed out like a spoiled little boy. But through denial and more projection and maybe a rally or numerous likes on his Twitter feed, he will be back to his old grandiose self in a few days.  George Magakis Jr.Norristown, Pa. To the Editor: So much attention is being paid to President Trump’s tweets, the Mueller investigation, terrorism, immigration. But how about focusing on a truly inspiring story of the indomitable strength of the family, the foundation of society. If Kellyanne and George Conway can keep it together, despite Mr. Conway’s questioning the president’s mental fitness, there’s hope for all of us. Tom FritschlerPort Angeles, Wash.

Supported by letters After a weekend of dozens of tweets, some see signs that President Trump is increasingly mentally unbalanced. To the Editor: Re “Seeking Clues Behind Trump’s Weekend Twitter Barrage” (news article, March 19): For over two years we have watched President Trump become more and more unhinged. This past weekend should have been a frightening experience for even the most casual observer of our political situation. His disjointed attacks on the Mueller investigation and irrational rants against the late Senator John McCain should make his enablers in Congress more than nervous. It is getting harder to ignore that we apparently have an emotionally unbalanced individual as our chief executive. For Congress to ignore these obvious signs is a dereliction of duty.  Ted DicksonNew York To the Editor: President Trump’s recent tweets do not mean that he is unraveling or a madman; he is just throwing a temper tantrum. All his adult life he has surrounded himself with sycophants who catered to his every whim. Fox News has been filling that role by stroking his ego. A plausible reason for the recent tweets is not necessarily the Mueller investigation or the rebuke from Congress on his emergency declaration, but more likely that Fox News suspended the “Justice With Judge Jeanine” show Saturday night (“After a Rare Public Rebuke, Fox News Suspends a Host, to the President’s Chagrin,” news article, March 18).  His cuddly bear and enabler was taken away from him, and he lashed out like a spoiled little boy. But through denial and more projection and maybe a rally or numerous likes on his Twitter feed, he will be back to his old grandiose self in a few days.  George Magakis Jr.Norristown, Pa. To the Editor: So much attention is being paid to President Trump’s tweets, the Mueller investigation, terrorism, immigration. But how about focusing on a truly inspiring story of the indomitable strength of the family, the foundation of society. If Kellyanne and George Conway can keep it together, despite Mr. Conway’s questioning the president’s mental fitness, there’s hope for all of us. Tom FritschlerPort Angeles, Wash.Supported by By David Enrich As President Trump delivered his inaugural address in 2017, a slight woman with feathered gray hair sat listening, bundled in a hooded white parka in a fenced-off V.I.P. section. Her name was Rosemary T. Vrablic. She was a managing director at Deutsche Bank and one of the reasons Mr. Trump had just taken the oath of office. It was a moment of celebration — and a moment of worry for Ms. Vrablic’s employer. Mr. Trump and Deutsche Bank were deeply entwined, their symbiotic bond born of necessity and ambition on both sides: a real estate mogul made toxic by polarizing rhetoric and a pattern of defaults, and a bank with intractable financial problems and a history of misconduct. The relationship had paid off. Mr. Trump used loans from Deutsche Bank to finance skyscrapers and other high-end properties, and repeatedly cited his relationship with the bank to deflect political attacks on his business acumen. Deutsche Bank used Mr. Trump’s projects to build its investment-banking business, reaped fees from the assets he put in its custody and leveraged his celebrity to lure clients. Then Mr. Trump won the 2016 election, and the German bank shifted into damage-control mode, bracing for an onslaught of public scrutiny, according to several people involved in the internal response. In the weeks before Ms. Vrablic attended his swearing-in, the bank commissioned reports to figure out how it had gotten in so deep with Mr. Trump. It issued an unusual edict to its Wall Street employees: Do not publicly utter the word “Trump.” More than two years later, Mr. Trump’s financial ties with Deutsche Bank are the subject of investigations by two congressional committees and the New York attorney general. Investigators hope to use Deutsche Bank as a window into Mr. Trump’s personal and business finances. Deutsche Bank officials have quietly argued to regulators, lawmakers and journalists that Mr. Trump was not a priority for the bank or its senior leaders and that the lending was the work of a single, obscure division. But interviews with more than 20 current and former Deutsche Bank executives and board members, most of them with direct knowledge of the Trump relationship, contradict the bank’s narrative. Over nearly two decades, Deutsche Bank’s leaders repeatedly saw red flags surrounding Mr. Trump. There was a disastrous bond sale, a promised loan that relied on a banker’s forged signature, wild exaggerations of Mr. Trump’s wealth, even a claim of an act of God. But Deutsche Bank had a ravenous appetite for risk and limited concern about its clients’ reputations. Time after time, with the support of two different chief executives, the bank handed money — a total of well over $2 billion — to a man whom nearly all other banks had deemed untouchable. Kerrie McHugh, a Deutsche Bank spokeswoman, said: “We remain committed to cooperating with authorized investigations.” The White House referred questions to the Trump Organization. A company spokeswoman, Amanda Miller, declined to comment. In the late 1990s, Deutsche Bank, which is based in Germany, was trying to make a name for itself on Wall Street. Its investment-banking division went on a hiring binge. The bank recruited a handful of Goldman Sachs traders to lead a push into commercial real estate. One was Justin Kennedy, the son of Supreme Court Justice Anthony Kennedy. Another was Mike Offit, whose father was the writer Sidney Offit. At Deutsche Bank, Mr. Offit’s mandate was to lend money to big real estate developers, package the loans into securities and sell the resulting bonds to investors. He said in an interview that one way to stand out in a crowded market was to make loans that his rivals considered too risky. In 1998, a broker contacted him to see if he would consider lending to a Wall Street pariah: Mr. Trump, who was then a casino magnate whose bankruptcies had cost banks hundreds of millions of dollars. Mr. Offit took the meeting. A few days later, Mr. Offit’s secretary called him. “Donald Trump is in the conference room,” she whispered. Mr. Offit said he rushed in, expecting to find an entourage. Mr. Trump was alone. He was looking for a $125 million loan to pay for gut renovations of 40 Wall Street, his Art Deco tower in Lower Manhattan. Mr. Offit was impressed by the pitch, and the loan sailed through Deutsche Bank’s approval process. Mr. Trump seemed giddy with gratitude, Mr. Offit recalled. He took Mr. Offit golfing. He flew him by helicopter to Atlantic City for boxing matches. He wrote a grateful note to Sidney Offit for having “a great son!” Mr. Offit commissioned a detailed model of 40 Wall Street. A golden plaque on its pedestal bore the names and logos of Deutsche Bank and the Trump Organization. Mr. Offit gave one to Mr. Trump and kept another in his office. Mr. Trump soon came looking for $300 million for the construction of a skyscraper across from the United Nations headquarters. The loan was approved. He wanted hundreds of millions more for his Trump Marina casino in Atlantic City. Mr. Offit pledged to line up cash for that, too. Not long after, Edson Mitchell, a top bank executive, discovered that the signature of the credit officer who had approved the Trump Marina deal had been forged, Mr. Offit said. (Mr. Offit was never accused of forgery; the loan never went through.) Mr. Offit was fired months later. He said it was because Mr. Mitchell claimed that he was reckless, a charge Mr. Offit disputed. It was the first hiccup in the Trump relationship. It would not be the last. Over the next few years, the commercial real estate group, with Mr. Kennedy now in a senior role, kept lending to Mr. Trump, including to buy the General Motors building in Manhattan. Occasionally, Justice Kennedy stopped by Deutsche Bank’s offices to say hello to the team, executives recalled. At an annual pro-am golf tournament the bank hosted outside Boston in the early 2000s, Mr. Trump sat down for a recorded interview with the bank’s public relations staff, who asked about his experience with Deutsche Bank. “It’s great,” Mr. Trump exclaimed, according to a person who witnessed the interview. “They’re really fast!” In 2003, a Deutsche Bank team led by Richard Byrne — a former casino-industry analyst who had known Mr. Trump since the 1980s — was hired to sell bonds on behalf of Trump Hotels & Casino Resorts. Bank officials escorted Mr. Trump to meet institutional investors in New York and Boston, according to an executive who attended. The so-called roadshow seemed to go well. At every stop, Mr. Trump was greeted by large audiences of fund managers, executives and lower-level employees eager to see the famous mogul. The problem, as a Deutsche Bank executive would explain to Mr. Trump, was that few of them were willing to entrust money to him. Mr. Trump requested an audience with the bank’s bond salesmen. According to a Deutsche Bank executive who heard the remarks, Mr. Trump gave a pep talk. “Fellas, I know this isn’t the easiest thing you’ve had to sell,” the executive recalled Mr. Trump saying. “But if you get this done, you’ll all be my guests at Mar-a-Lago,” his private club in Palm Beach, Fla. The sales team managed to sell hundreds of millions of dollars worth of bonds. Mr. Trump was pleased with the results when a Deutsche Bank executive called, according to a person who heard the conversation. “Don’t forget what you promised our guys,” the executive reminded him. Mr. Trump said he did not remember and that he doubted the salesmen actually expected to be taken to Mar-a-Lago. “That’s all they’ve talked about the past week,” the executive replied. Mr. Trump ultimately flew about 15 salesmen to Florida on his Boeing 727. They spent a weekend golfing with Mr. Trump, two participants said. A year later, in 2004, Trump Hotels & Casino Resorts defaulted on the bonds. Deutsche Bank’s clients suffered steep losses. This arm of the investment-banking division stopped doing business with Mr. Trump. Around that time, Mr. Trump returned to Deutsche Bank’s commercial real estate unit — which was housed in a separate part of the sprawling investment-banking division — for another loan. This one was to build a 92-story skyscraper in Chicago, the Trump International Hotel and Tower. Josef Ackermann, the bank’s chief executive, had publicly promised soaring profits, and with many of the company’s businesses sputtering, the investment-banking group was under intense pressure to grow. As Deutsche Bank considered making the loan, Mr. Trump wooed bankers with flights on his private plane, according to a person familiar with the pitch. In a Trump Tower meeting, he told Mr. Kennedy that his daughter Ivanka would be in charge of the Chicago project, a sign of the family’s commitment to its success. But there were warning signs. Mr. Trump told Deutsche Bank his net worth was about $3 billion, but when bank employees reviewed his finances, they concluded he was worth about $788 million, according to documents produced during a lawsuit Mr. Trump brought against the former New York Times journalist Timothy O’Brien. And a senior investment-banking executive said in an interview that he and others cautioned that Mr. Trump should be avoided because he had worked with people in the construction industry connected to organized crime. Nonetheless, Deutsche Bank agreed in 2005 to lend Mr. Trump more than $500 million for the project. He personally guaranteed $40 million of it, meaning the bank could come after his personal assets if he defaulted. By 2008, the riverside skyscraper, one of the tallest in America, was mostly built. But with the economy sagging, Mr. Trump struggled to sell hundreds of condominium units. The bulk of the loan was due that November. Then the financial crisis hit, and Mr. Trump’s lawyers sensed an opportunity. A provision in the loan let Mr. Trump partially off the hook in the event of a “force majeure,” essentially an act of God, like a natural disaster. The former Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan had called the financial crisis a tsunami. And what was a tsunami if not a natural disaster? One of Mr. Trump’s lawyers, Steven Schlesinger, told him the provision could be used against Deutsche Bank. “It’s brilliant!” Mr. Schlesinger recalled Mr. Trump responding. Days before the loan was due, Mr. Trump sued Deutsche Bank, citing the force majeure language and seeking $3 billion in damages. Deutsche Bank countersued and demanded payment of the $40 million that Mr. Trump had personally guaranteed. With the suits in court, senior investment-banking executives severed ties with Mr. Trump. Not long after Mr. Trump got the Chicago loan — but before it went south — Deutsche Bank was expanding its private-banking division, which served the superrich. Executives said they set out to hire Ms. Vrablic, whom they viewed as the best private banker in New York. Traditionally, private bankers discreetly manage customers’ wealth and act as high-end concierges. Ms. Vrablic, who started her career as a bank teller and then worked at Citigroup and Bank of America, did that and more. She also arranged large real estate and commercial loans for her best clients. To lure her, Deutsche Bank guaranteed that she would earn at least $3 million a year, unusually rich terms for a private banker, and would bypass a layer of management to report directly to Thomas Bowers, the head of the American wealth-management division, according to people familiar with her contract. “Rosemary is widely recognized as one of the top private bankers to the U.S. ultra high-net-worth community,” Mr. Bowers said in a September 2006 news release. Deutsche Bank took out an ad in The Times to celebrate the arrival of her and a few colleagues. Ms. Vrablic’s superiors encouraged her to make loans that rival banks dismissed as too large or complex. They saw it as a way to elbow into the hypercompetitive New York market. In 2010, Deutsche Bank and Mr. Trump settled their litigation over the Chicago loan. Mr. Trump agreed to repay most of what he owed by 2012, Mr. Schlesinger said. One of Ms. Vrablic’s clients was Jared Kushner, who married Ivanka Trump in 2009. Mr. Kushner regarded Ms. Vrablic as the best banker he had ever worked with, according to a person familiar with his thinking. Shortly after the Chicago lawsuit was settled, Mr. Kushner was told that Mr. Trump was looking for a loan and introduced him to Ms. Vrablic, according to people familiar with the relationship. Mr. Trump flew Ms. Vrablic to Miami to show her a property he wanted to buy: the Doral Golf Resort and Spa. He needed more than $100 million for the 72-hole property. Deutsche Bank dispatched a team to Trump Tower to inspect Mr. Trump’s personal and corporate financial records. The bankers determined he was overvaluing some of his real estate assets by as much as 70 percent, according to two former executives. By then, though, Mr. Trump had become a reality-TV star, and he was swimming in cash from “The Apprentice.” Deutsche Bank officials also were impressed that Mr. Trump did not have much debt, according to people who reviewed his finances. Aside from his history of defaults, he was an attractive borrower. Mr. Trump also expressed interest in another loan from the private-banking division: $48 million for the same Chicago property that had provoked the two-year court fight. Mr. Trump told the bank he would use that loan to repay what he still owed the investment-banking division, the two former executives said. Even by Wall Street standards, borrowing money from one part of a bank to pay off a loan from another was an extraordinary act of financial chutzpah. Ms. Vrablic and Mr. Bowers tentatively agreed to both loans. Because these would be the private bank’s first transactions with Mr. Trump, they needed approval up the chain of command. Investment-banking executives, including Anshu Jain, who would soon become Deutsche Bank’s co-chief executive, pushed back. Lending to Mr. Trump again would be foolish, they argued, and signal to clients that they could default and even sue the bank. Executives in the private bank countered that the proposed loans had Mr. Trump’s personal guarantee and therefore were low risk. And the Chicago loan, they noted, would lead to the repayment of tens of millions of dollars that Mr. Trump still owed the investment-banking division. A top executive with responsibility for the private bank discussed the loans with Mr. Ackermann, the chief executive, who supported them, according to two officials. A powerful committee in Frankfurt, which evaluated loans based on risks to the bank’s reputation, signed off. “There is no objection from the bank to proceed with this client,” wrote Stuart Clarke, the chief operating officer for the Americas, in a Dec. 5, 2011, email, according to a recipient. Deutsche Bank wired the money to Mr. Trump. The loans carried relatively low interest rates, executives said, but the business promised to be profitable: As part of the deal, Mr. Trump would hold millions of dollars in a personal account, generating fees for the bank. “I have no recollection of having been asked to approve that private-banking loan,” Mr. Ackermann said in an interview. He added: “I would have approved it, if it came to me, if it was commercially sound.” Ms. Vrablic’s relationship with the Trumps deepened. Deutsche Bank lent money to Donald Trump Jr. for a South Carolina manufacturing venture that would soon go bankrupt. It provided a $15 million credit line to Mr. Kushner and his mother, according to financial documents reviewed by The Times. The bank previously had an informal ban on business with the Kushners because Jared’s father, Charles, was a felon. In 2012, Jared Kushner recommended that the editor of The Mortgage Observer, one of the publications he owned, write a profile of Ms. Vrablic. The editor, Carl Gaines, knew Mr. Kushner was her client and objected, according to a person familiar with the exchange. “Just go meet with her,” Mr. Kushner said. “You’ll figure something out.” A gauzy profile of Ms. Vrablic was published in February 2013. Shortly afterward, the private bank produced a promotional video featuring some of its marquee clients. The video was played at a retreat for Deutsche Bank’s senior leadership in Barcelona. In it, Ivanka Trump extolled the private bank’s work with her family and thanked their relationship manager, according to two people who saw the video. In early 2014, Mr. Trump and his personal lawyer, Michael Cohen, approached Ms. Vrablic about more potential loans. The owner of the Buffalo Bills had died, and the N.F.L. franchise was up for sale. Mr. Trump was interested, and he needed to show the league he had the financial wherewithal to pull off a transaction that could top $1 billion. Mr. Trump asked Ms. Vrablic if the bank would be willing to make a loan and handed over bare-bones financial statements that estimated his net worth at $8.7 billion. Mr. Cohen testified to Congress last month that the documents exaggerated Mr. Trump’s wealth. Deutsche Bank executives had reached a similar conclusion. They nonetheless agreed to vouch for Mr. Trump’s bid, according to an executive involved. Mr. Trump’s bid did not win, but another lending opportunity soon arose. A federal agency had selected Mr. Trump to transform the Old Post Office Building in Washington into a luxury hotel. But his financial partner — the private equity firm Colony Capital, run by Thomas J. Barrack Jr. — pulled out. Mr. Trump needed nearly $200 million. Because of his decades-long pattern of defaults and his increasingly polarizing political rhetoric — among other things, he had been spreading a lie about President Barack Obama being born overseas — Mr. Trump remained untouchable for most banks. Ms. Vrablic was willing to help. In a memo outlining the rationale for the Old Post Office loan, Ms. Vrablic said Mr. Trump was expected to add large sums to his brokerage account if he received the loan, according to an executive who read the document. This time, there was less internal opposition. One reason: Mr. Jain — by then the bank’s co-chief executive — had a solid relationship with Ms. Vrablic. Mr. Jain accompanied her to meetings with high-profile clients, and he praised her work to colleagues, multiple executives said. On a foggy Wednesday in February 2013, Ms. Vrablic and Mr. Jain went to Trump Tower to meet with Mr. Trump, according to two executives with knowledge of the meeting. Ms. Vrablic’s rapport with the client was immediately clear: Mr. Trump’s assistant greeted her as an old friend, and she seemed relaxed with Mr. Trump and his daughter, one executive said. They discussed Mr. Trump’s finances over lunch, and Mr. Jain said he was surprised by his low level of debt, the executives said. After lunch, Ms. Vrablic told her colleagues that Mr. Jain had sounded upbeat about Mr. Trump’s finances. A $170 million loan to pay for the overhaul of the Old Post Office went through in 2015, and Mr. Trump added more money to his brokerage account. (In May 2016, he reported up to $46 million of stocks and bonds in the account.) On Aug. 6, 2015, Mr. Trump participated in the first Republican presidential debate. He clashed with the Fox News moderator, Megyn Kelly. He flew back to New York early the next morning. That evening, he called in to a CNN talk show and said of Ms. Kelly that there was “blood coming out of her wherever.” In the intervening hours, Mr. Trump had used a black Sharpie to sign documents for another loan from Deutsche Bank: $19 million for the Doral resort. That brought to more than $300 million the total lent under Ms. Vrablic. On the campaign trail, rivals assailed Mr. Trump’s financial history. In response, he pointed to Deutsche Bank-funded successes like the Old Post Office project, now a gleaming hotel a few blocks from the White House. In early 2016, Mr. Trump asked Ms. Vrablic for one final loan, for his golf course in Turnberry, Scotland. Ms. Vrablic said yes, but a fight soon erupted. Jacques Brand, who was in charge of Deutsche Bank’s American businesses, angrily objected, partly because of Mr. Trump’s divisive rhetoric. Ms. Vrablic appealed the decision. Senior executives in Frankfurt, including Christian Sewing, who would become chief executive in 2018, were shocked that the private bank would consider lending Mr. Trump money during the campaign, bank officials said. The bank’s reputational risk committee killed the transaction in March 2016. That same month, as The Times was preparing an article about Mr. Trump’s excommunication from Wall Street, he cited his warm relationship with Deutsche Bank. “They are totally happy with me,” he said to The Times. “Why don’t you call the head of Deutsche Bank? Her name is Rosemary Vrablic. She is the boss.” After Mr. Trump won the election, Deutsche Bank’s board of directors rushed to understand how the bank had become the biggest lender to the president-elect. A report prepared by the board’s integrity committee concluded that executives in the private-banking division were so determined to win business from big-name clients that they had ignored Mr. Trump’s reputation for demagogy and defaults, according to a person who read the report. The review also found that Deutsche Bank had produced a number of “exposure reports” that flagged the growing business with Mr. Trump, but that they had not been adequately reviewed by senior executives. On Deutsche Bank’s trading floor, managers began warning employees not to use the word “Trump” in communications with people outside the bank. Salesmen who violated the edict were scolded by compliance officers who said the bank feared stoking public interest in its ties to the new president. One reason: If Mr. Trump were to default on his loans, Deutsche Bank would have to choose between seizing his assets or cutting him a lucrative break — a situation the bank would rather resolve in private. Two years after Mr. Trump was sworn in, Democrats took control of the House of Representatives. The chamber’s financial services and intelligence committees opened investigations into Deutsche Bank’s relationship with Mr. Trump. Those inquiries, as well as the New York attorney general’s investigation, come at a perilous time for Deutsche Bank, which is negotiating to merge with another large German lender. Next month, Deutsche Bank is likely to start handing over extensive internal documents and communications about Mr. Trump to the congressional committees, according to people briefed on the process. Ms. Vrablic, who is intensely private and rarely discusses her personal life with colleagues, declined to comment. People familiar with her thinking said she expected to be called to testify publicly on Capitol Hill. Emily Flitter and Ben Protess contributed reporting.    

Supported by By David Enrich As President Trump delivered his inaugural address in 2017, a slight woman with feathered gray hair sat listening, bundled in a hooded white parka in a fenced-off V.I.P. section. Her name was Rosemary T. Vrablic. She was a managing director at Deutsche Bank and one of the reasons Mr. Trump had just taken the oath of office. It was a moment of celebration — and a moment of worry for Ms. Vrablic’s employer. Mr. Trump and Deutsche Bank were deeply entwined, their symbiotic bond born of necessity and ambition on both sides: a real estate mogul made toxic by polarizing rhetoric and a pattern of defaults, and a bank with intractable financial problems and a history of misconduct. The relationship had paid off. Mr. Trump used loans from Deutsche Bank to finance skyscrapers and other high-end properties, and repeatedly cited his relationship with the bank to deflect political attacks on his business acumen. Deutsche Bank used Mr. Trump’s projects to build its investment-banking business, reaped fees from the assets he put in its custody and leveraged his celebrity to lure clients. Then Mr. Trump won the 2016 election, and the German bank shifted into damage-control mode, bracing for an onslaught of public scrutiny, according to several people involved in the internal response. In the weeks before Ms. Vrablic attended his swearing-in, the bank commissioned reports to figure out how it had gotten in so deep with Mr. Trump. It issued an unusual edict to its Wall Street employees: Do not publicly utter the word “Trump.” More than two years later, Mr. Trump’s financial ties with Deutsche Bank are the subject of investigations by two congressional committees and the New York attorney general. Investigators hope to use Deutsche Bank as a window into Mr. Trump’s personal and business finances. Deutsche Bank officials have quietly argued to regulators, lawmakers and journalists that Mr. Trump was not a priority for the bank or its senior leaders and that the lending was the work of a single, obscure division. But interviews with more than 20 current and former Deutsche Bank executives and board members, most of them with direct knowledge of the Trump relationship, contradict the bank’s narrative. Over nearly two decades, Deutsche Bank’s leaders repeatedly saw red flags surrounding Mr. Trump. There was a disastrous bond sale, a promised loan that relied on a banker’s forged signature, wild exaggerations of Mr. Trump’s wealth, even a claim of an act of God. But Deutsche Bank had a ravenous appetite for risk and limited concern about its clients’ reputations. Time after time, with the support of two different chief executives, the bank handed money — a total of well over $2 billion — to a man whom nearly all other banks had deemed untouchable. Kerrie McHugh, a Deutsche Bank spokeswoman, said: “We remain committed to cooperating with authorized investigations.” The White House referred questions to the Trump Organization. A company spokeswoman, Amanda Miller, declined to comment. In the late 1990s, Deutsche Bank, which is based in Germany, was trying to make a name for itself on Wall Street. Its investment-banking division went on a hiring binge. The bank recruited a handful of Goldman Sachs traders to lead a push into commercial real estate. One was Justin Kennedy, the son of Supreme Court Justice Anthony Kennedy. Another was Mike Offit, whose father was the writer Sidney Offit. At Deutsche Bank, Mr. Offit’s mandate was to lend money to big real estate developers, package the loans into securities and sell the resulting bonds to investors. He said in an interview that one way to stand out in a crowded market was to make loans that his rivals considered too risky. In 1998, a broker contacted him to see if he would consider lending to a Wall Street pariah: Mr. Trump, who was then a casino magnate whose bankruptcies had cost banks hundreds of millions of dollars. Mr. Offit took the meeting. A few days later, Mr. Offit’s secretary called him. “Donald Trump is in the conference room,” she whispered. Mr. Offit said he rushed in, expecting to find an entourage. Mr. Trump was alone. He was looking for a $125 million loan to pay for gut renovations of 40 Wall Street, his Art Deco tower in Lower Manhattan. Mr. Offit was impressed by the pitch, and the loan sailed through Deutsche Bank’s approval process. Mr. Trump seemed giddy with gratitude, Mr. Offit recalled. He took Mr. Offit golfing. He flew him by helicopter to Atlantic City for boxing matches. He wrote a grateful note to Sidney Offit for having “a great son!” Mr. Offit commissioned a detailed model of 40 Wall Street. A golden plaque on its pedestal bore the names and logos of Deutsche Bank and the Trump Organization. Mr. Offit gave one to Mr. Trump and kept another in his office. Mr. Trump soon came looking for $300 million for the construction of a skyscraper across from the United Nations headquarters. The loan was approved. He wanted hundreds of millions more for his Trump Marina casino in Atlantic City. Mr. Offit pledged to line up cash for that, too. Not long after, Edson Mitchell, a top bank executive, discovered that the signature of the credit officer who had approved the Trump Marina deal had been forged, Mr. Offit said. (Mr. Offit was never accused of forgery; the loan never went through.) Mr. Offit was fired months later. He said it was because Mr. Mitchell claimed that he was reckless, a charge Mr. Offit disputed. It was the first hiccup in the Trump relationship. It would not be the last. Over the next few years, the commercial real estate group, with Mr. Kennedy now in a senior role, kept lending to Mr. Trump, including to buy the General Motors building in Manhattan. Occasionally, Justice Kennedy stopped by Deutsche Bank’s offices to say hello to the team, executives recalled. At an annual pro-am golf tournament the bank hosted outside Boston in the early 2000s, Mr. Trump sat down for a recorded interview with the bank’s public relations staff, who asked about his experience with Deutsche Bank. “It’s great,” Mr. Trump exclaimed, according to a person who witnessed the interview. “They’re really fast!” In 2003, a Deutsche Bank team led by Richard Byrne — a former casino-industry analyst who had known Mr. Trump since the 1980s — was hired to sell bonds on behalf of Trump Hotels & Casino Resorts. Bank officials escorted Mr. Trump to meet institutional investors in New York and Boston, according to an executive who attended. The so-called roadshow seemed to go well. At every stop, Mr. Trump was greeted by large audiences of fund managers, executives and lower-level employees eager to see the famous mogul. The problem, as a Deutsche Bank executive would explain to Mr. Trump, was that few of them were willing to entrust money to him. Mr. Trump requested an audience with the bank’s bond salesmen. According to a Deutsche Bank executive who heard the remarks, Mr. Trump gave a pep talk. “Fellas, I know this isn’t the easiest thing you’ve had to sell,” the executive recalled Mr. Trump saying. “But if you get this done, you’ll all be my guests at Mar-a-Lago,” his private club in Palm Beach, Fla. The sales team managed to sell hundreds of millions of dollars worth of bonds. Mr. Trump was pleased with the results when a Deutsche Bank executive called, according to a person who heard the conversation. “Don’t forget what you promised our guys,” the executive reminded him. Mr. Trump said he did not remember and that he doubted the salesmen actually expected to be taken to Mar-a-Lago. “That’s all they’ve talked about the past week,” the executive replied. Mr. Trump ultimately flew about 15 salesmen to Florida on his Boeing 727. They spent a weekend golfing with Mr. Trump, two participants said. A year later, in 2004, Trump Hotels & Casino Resorts defaulted on the bonds. Deutsche Bank’s clients suffered steep losses. This arm of the investment-banking division stopped doing business with Mr. Trump. Around that time, Mr. Trump returned to Deutsche Bank’s commercial real estate unit — which was housed in a separate part of the sprawling investment-banking division — for another loan. This one was to build a 92-story skyscraper in Chicago, the Trump International Hotel and Tower. Josef Ackermann, the bank’s chief executive, had publicly promised soaring profits, and with many of the company’s businesses sputtering, the investment-banking group was under intense pressure to grow. As Deutsche Bank considered making the loan, Mr. Trump wooed bankers with flights on his private plane, according to a person familiar with the pitch. In a Trump Tower meeting, he told Mr. Kennedy that his daughter Ivanka would be in charge of the Chicago project, a sign of the family’s commitment to its success. But there were warning signs. Mr. Trump told Deutsche Bank his net worth was about $3 billion, but when bank employees reviewed his finances, they concluded he was worth about $788 million, according to documents produced during a lawsuit Mr. Trump brought against the former New York Times journalist Timothy O’Brien. And a senior investment-banking executive said in an interview that he and others cautioned that Mr. Trump should be avoided because he had worked with people in the construction industry connected to organized crime. Nonetheless, Deutsche Bank agreed in 2005 to lend Mr. Trump more than $500 million for the project. He personally guaranteed $40 million of it, meaning the bank could come after his personal assets if he defaulted. By 2008, the riverside skyscraper, one of the tallest in America, was mostly built. But with the economy sagging, Mr. Trump struggled to sell hundreds of condominium units. The bulk of the loan was due that November. Then the financial crisis hit, and Mr. Trump’s lawyers sensed an opportunity. A provision in the loan let Mr. Trump partially off the hook in the event of a “force majeure,” essentially an act of God, like a natural disaster. The former Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan had called the financial crisis a tsunami. And what was a tsunami if not a natural disaster? One of Mr. Trump’s lawyers, Steven Schlesinger, told him the provision could be used against Deutsche Bank. “It’s brilliant!” Mr. Schlesinger recalled Mr. Trump responding. Days before the loan was due, Mr. Trump sued Deutsche Bank, citing the force majeure language and seeking $3 billion in damages. Deutsche Bank countersued and demanded payment of the $40 million that Mr. Trump had personally guaranteed. With the suits in court, senior investment-banking executives severed ties with Mr. Trump. Not long after Mr. Trump got the Chicago loan — but before it went south — Deutsche Bank was expanding its private-banking division, which served the superrich. Executives said they set out to hire Ms. Vrablic, whom they viewed as the best private banker in New York. Traditionally, private bankers discreetly manage customers’ wealth and act as high-end concierges. Ms. Vrablic, who started her career as a bank teller and then worked at Citigroup and Bank of America, did that and more. She also arranged large real estate and commercial loans for her best clients. To lure her, Deutsche Bank guaranteed that she would earn at least $3 million a year, unusually rich terms for a private banker, and would bypass a layer of management to report directly to Thomas Bowers, the head of the American wealth-management division, according to people familiar with her contract. “Rosemary is widely recognized as one of the top private bankers to the U.S. ultra high-net-worth community,” Mr. Bowers said in a September 2006 news release. Deutsche Bank took out an ad in The Times to celebrate the arrival of her and a few colleagues. Ms. Vrablic’s superiors encouraged her to make loans that rival banks dismissed as too large or complex. They saw it as a way to elbow into the hypercompetitive New York market. In 2010, Deutsche Bank and Mr. Trump settled their litigation over the Chicago loan. Mr. Trump agreed to repay most of what he owed by 2012, Mr. Schlesinger said. One of Ms. Vrablic’s clients was Jared Kushner, who married Ivanka Trump in 2009. Mr. Kushner regarded Ms. Vrablic as the best banker he had ever worked with, according to a person familiar with his thinking. Shortly after the Chicago lawsuit was settled, Mr. Kushner was told that Mr. Trump was looking for a loan and introduced him to Ms. Vrablic, according to people familiar with the relationship. Mr. Trump flew Ms. Vrablic to Miami to show her a property he wanted to buy: the Doral Golf Resort and Spa. He needed more than $100 million for the 72-hole property. Deutsche Bank dispatched a team to Trump Tower to inspect Mr. Trump’s personal and corporate financial records. The bankers determined he was overvaluing some of his real estate assets by as much as 70 percent, according to two former executives. By then, though, Mr. Trump had become a reality-TV star, and he was swimming in cash from “The Apprentice.” Deutsche Bank officials also were impressed that Mr. Trump did not have much debt, according to people who reviewed his finances. Aside from his history of defaults, he was an attractive borrower. Mr. Trump also expressed interest in another loan from the private-banking division: $48 million for the same Chicago property that had provoked the two-year court fight. Mr. Trump told the bank he would use that loan to repay what he still owed the investment-banking division, the two former executives said. Even by Wall Street standards, borrowing money from one part of a bank to pay off a loan from another was an extraordinary act of financial chutzpah. Ms. Vrablic and Mr. Bowers tentatively agreed to both loans. Because these would be the private bank’s first transactions with Mr. Trump, they needed approval up the chain of command. Investment-banking executives, including Anshu Jain, who would soon become Deutsche Bank’s co-chief executive, pushed back. Lending to Mr. Trump again would be foolish, they argued, and signal to clients that they could default and even sue the bank. Executives in the private bank countered that the proposed loans had Mr. Trump’s personal guarantee and therefore were low risk. And the Chicago loan, they noted, would lead to the repayment of tens of millions of dollars that Mr. Trump still owed the investment-banking division. A top executive with responsibility for the private bank discussed the loans with Mr. Ackermann, the chief executive, who supported them, according to two officials. A powerful committee in Frankfurt, which evaluated loans based on risks to the bank’s reputation, signed off. “There is no objection from the bank to proceed with this client,” wrote Stuart Clarke, the chief operating officer for the Americas, in a Dec. 5, 2011, email, according to a recipient. Deutsche Bank wired the money to Mr. Trump. The loans carried relatively low interest rates, executives said, but the business promised to be profitable: As part of the deal, Mr. Trump would hold millions of dollars in a personal account, generating fees for the bank. “I have no recollection of having been asked to approve that private-banking loan,” Mr. Ackermann said in an interview. He added: “I would have approved it, if it came to me, if it was commercially sound.” Ms. Vrablic’s relationship with the Trumps deepened. Deutsche Bank lent money to Donald Trump Jr. for a South Carolina manufacturing venture that would soon go bankrupt. It provided a $15 million credit line to Mr. Kushner and his mother, according to financial documents reviewed by The Times. The bank previously had an informal ban on business with the Kushners because Jared’s father, Charles, was a felon. In 2012, Jared Kushner recommended that the editor of The Mortgage Observer, one of the publications he owned, write a profile of Ms. Vrablic. The editor, Carl Gaines, knew Mr. Kushner was her client and objected, according to a person familiar with the exchange. “Just go meet with her,” Mr. Kushner said. “You’ll figure something out.” A gauzy profile of Ms. Vrablic was published in February 2013. Shortly afterward, the private bank produced a promotional video featuring some of its marquee clients. The video was played at a retreat for Deutsche Bank’s senior leadership in Barcelona. In it, Ivanka Trump extolled the private bank’s work with her family and thanked their relationship manager, according to two people who saw the video. In early 2014, Mr. Trump and his personal lawyer, Michael Cohen, approached Ms. Vrablic about more potential loans. The owner of the Buffalo Bills had died, and the N.F.L. franchise was up for sale. Mr. Trump was interested, and he needed to show the league he had the financial wherewithal to pull off a transaction that could top $1 billion. Mr. Trump asked Ms. Vrablic if the bank would be willing to make a loan and handed over bare-bones financial statements that estimated his net worth at $8.7 billion. Mr. Cohen testified to Congress last month that the documents exaggerated Mr. Trump’s wealth. Deutsche Bank executives had reached a similar conclusion. They nonetheless agreed to vouch for Mr. Trump’s bid, according to an executive involved. Mr. Trump’s bid did not win, but another lending opportunity soon arose. A federal agency had selected Mr. Trump to transform the Old Post Office Building in Washington into a luxury hotel. But his financial partner — the private equity firm Colony Capital, run by Thomas J. Barrack Jr. — pulled out. Mr. Trump needed nearly $200 million. Because of his decades-long pattern of defaults and his increasingly polarizing political rhetoric — among other things, he had been spreading a lie about President Barack Obama being born overseas — Mr. Trump remained untouchable for most banks. Ms. Vrablic was willing to help. In a memo outlining the rationale for the Old Post Office loan, Ms. Vrablic said Mr. Trump was expected to add large sums to his brokerage account if he received the loan, according to an executive who read the document. This time, there was less internal opposition. One reason: Mr. Jain — by then the bank’s co-chief executive — had a solid relationship with Ms. Vrablic. Mr. Jain accompanied her to meetings with high-profile clients, and he praised her work to colleagues, multiple executives said. On a foggy Wednesday in February 2013, Ms. Vrablic and Mr. Jain went to Trump Tower to meet with Mr. Trump, according to two executives with knowledge of the meeting. Ms. Vrablic’s rapport with the client was immediately clear: Mr. Trump’s assistant greeted her as an old friend, and she seemed relaxed with Mr. Trump and his daughter, one executive said. They discussed Mr. Trump’s finances over lunch, and Mr. Jain said he was surprised by his low level of debt, the executives said. After lunch, Ms. Vrablic told her colleagues that Mr. Jain had sounded upbeat about Mr. Trump’s finances. A $170 million loan to pay for the overhaul of the Old Post Office went through in 2015, and Mr. Trump added more money to his brokerage account. (In May 2016, he reported up to $46 million of stocks and bonds in the account.) On Aug. 6, 2015, Mr. Trump participated in the first Republican presidential debate. He clashed with the Fox News moderator, Megyn Kelly. He flew back to New York early the next morning. That evening, he called in to a CNN talk show and said of Ms. Kelly that there was “blood coming out of her wherever.” In the intervening hours, Mr. Trump had used a black Sharpie to sign documents for another loan from Deutsche Bank: $19 million for the Doral resort. That brought to more than $300 million the total lent under Ms. Vrablic. On the campaign trail, rivals assailed Mr. Trump’s financial history. In response, he pointed to Deutsche Bank-funded successes like the Old Post Office project, now a gleaming hotel a few blocks from the White House. In early 2016, Mr. Trump asked Ms. Vrablic for one final loan, for his golf course in Turnberry, Scotland. Ms. Vrablic said yes, but a fight soon erupted. Jacques Brand, who was in charge of Deutsche Bank’s American businesses, angrily objected, partly because of Mr. Trump’s divisive rhetoric. Ms. Vrablic appealed the decision. Senior executives in Frankfurt, including Christian Sewing, who would become chief executive in 2018, were shocked that the private bank would consider lending Mr. Trump money during the campaign, bank officials said. The bank’s reputational risk committee killed the transaction in March 2016. That same month, as The Times was preparing an article about Mr. Trump’s excommunication from Wall Street, he cited his warm relationship with Deutsche Bank. “They are totally happy with me,” he said to The Times. “Why don’t you call the head of Deutsche Bank? Her name is Rosemary Vrablic. She is the boss.” After Mr. Trump won the election, Deutsche Bank’s board of directors rushed to understand how the bank had become the biggest lender to the president-elect. A report prepared by the board’s integrity committee concluded that executives in the private-banking division were so determined to win business from big-name clients that they had ignored Mr. Trump’s reputation for demagogy and defaults, according to a person who read the report. The review also found that Deutsche Bank had produced a number of “exposure reports” that flagged the growing business with Mr. Trump, but that they had not been adequately reviewed by senior executives. On Deutsche Bank’s trading floor, managers began warning employees not to use the word “Trump” in communications with people outside the bank. Salesmen who violated the edict were scolded by compliance officers who said the bank feared stoking public interest in its ties to the new president. One reason: If Mr. Trump were to default on his loans, Deutsche Bank would have to choose between seizing his assets or cutting him a lucrative break — a situation the bank would rather resolve in private. Two years after Mr. Trump was sworn in, Democrats took control of the House of Representatives. The chamber’s financial services and intelligence committees opened investigations into Deutsche Bank’s relationship with Mr. Trump. Those inquiries, as well as the New York attorney general’s investigation, come at a perilous time for Deutsche Bank, which is negotiating to merge with another large German lender. Next month, Deutsche Bank is likely to start handing over extensive internal documents and communications about Mr. Trump to the congressional committees, according to people briefed on the process. Ms. Vrablic, who is intensely private and rarely discusses her personal life with colleagues, declined to comment. People familiar with her thinking said she expected to be called to testify publicly on Capitol Hill. Emily Flitter and Ben Protess contributed reporting.    Supported by The outlines of a potential trade deal with China suggest President Trump once again is prioritizing superficial gains over America’s long-term economic interests. By The Editorial Board It’s easy to sell soybeans to China. The Chinese are voracious consumers of the world’s raw materials. Until 2018, shiploads of soybeans from the American Midwest streamed to the processing plants that dot the Chinese coast. So there is no reason to applaud the news that the Chinese government has offered to guarantee large purchases of American soybeans as part of a potential trade deal with the United States that the Trump administration is pushing to complete by late March or early April.  Instead, it is a worrying sign that the administration may settle for an ephemeral victory at the expense of America’s long-term economic interests. President Trump, by imposing tariffs on Chinese imports, created an opportunity to improve America’s economic relationship with China. It is a chance that may not come again. The American economy is strong, while the Chinese economy is faltering. China still needs American technologies. And despite Mr. Trump’s distaste for multilateralism, much of the rest of the world shares his concerns about China’s economic policies and trade practices. His decision to go it alone, rather than making common cause with longstanding allies, was ill advised, and his tit-for-tat trade war has caused significant pain for many Americans. Farmers and other American exporters lost access to an important market; consumers are paying higher prices on a wide range of goods. But Mr. Trump was right to argue that China has engaged in unfair competition. The question is whether he can win significant concessions. The proper measure of any deal is whether it achieves Mr. Trump’s stated purpose in starting this trade war: persuading China to curb its use of state subsidies, regulations and various kinds of informal interference that limit the ability of American companies to sell goods and services in China, and help Chinese companies sell goods in the United States.  Measured as a share of Chinese gross domestic product, imports of American manufactured products have fallen by more than half since 2000, according to calculations by Brad Setser of the Council on Foreign Relations. One reason is that China aggressively subsidizes the creation of homegrown alternatives. To take a noteworthy example, a government-owned company, the Commercial Aircraft Corporation of China, is developing a single-aisle passenger jet, the C919. The airplane is intended to reduce China’s spending on Boeing 737s — and to create a new rival for Boeing in the global market. China’s lax enforcement of its environmental and labor laws also amounts to a significant subsidy for Chinese manufacturing, and an inducement to relocate American jobs to China. Robert Lighthizer, Mr. Trump’s lead trade negotiator, has said the administration expects to make progress on these issues. But the United States has focused its demands on making it easier for American companies to operate in China, including protections for intellectual property and more leeway for foreign financial firms. China has accelerated work on a foreign investment law that would codify some of those changes, including a ban on the practice of requiring foreign companies to share proprietary technologies with the Chinese. American corporate expansion in China would benefit shareholders and executives. But it would not create factory jobs for American workers, Mr. Trump’s stated goal. What’s more, any promises the administration secures from China require an effective enforcement mechanism. The United States has failed in past efforts to hold China to its commitments through the World Trade Organization and through bilateral talks. The United States also is seeking an enforceable agreement to prevent exchange rate manipulation. China accelerated its development by saving rather than spending much of what it earned from exports to the United States. This suppressed the value of its currency, making its exports relatively cheap and American imports relatively expensive. The failure of previous administrations to hold China to account on this front has passed beyond remedy, and China is no longer engaged in currency manipulation, at least as defined under American law. But a framework to monitor and address manipulation could deter future shenanigans. And other countries continue to engage in currency manipulation at the expense of the United States, so an effective deal with China could serve as a constructive precedent. The looming risk, however, is that Mr. Trump will accept a deal that allows him to claim a superficial triumph without forcing China to make enduring changes.  In particular, the United States should reject any Chinese offer to guarantee large-scale purchases of American agricultural products like soybeans or energy products like liquid natural gas — indeed, guaranteed purchases of any kind. Such deals could serve Mr. Trump’s desire to reduce America’s annual trade deficit with China. But the achievement would be purely cosmetic. The overall balance of America’s imports and exports is important; the balance with any particular country is not. Past administrations have rejected similar offers from China because they run counter to America’s longstanding goal of reducing the Chinese government’s heavy-handed management of the country’s economy.  They would also come at the expense of America’s allies. If China buys more soybeans from North Dakota, it would buy fewer from Brazil. An international consensus that China’s trade policies are problematic has increased pressure on China to make meaningful concessions. Maintaining a unified front would help to ensure that China honors its commitments. Grabbing market share is unlikely to further that objective. Mr. Lighthizer has argued, correctly, that any agreement with China is a step in a long-term process. The United States should not strike a deal that undermines those long-term goals in exchange for ephemeral gains. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported by The outlines of a potential trade deal with China suggest President Trump once again is prioritizing superficial gains over America’s long-term economic interests. By The Editorial Board It’s easy to sell soybeans to China. The Chinese are voracious consumers of the world’s raw materials. Until 2018, shiploads of soybeans from the American Midwest streamed to the processing plants that dot the Chinese coast. So there is no reason to applaud the news that the Chinese government has offered to guarantee large purchases of American soybeans as part of a potential trade deal with the United States that the Trump administration is pushing to complete by late March or early April.  Instead, it is a worrying sign that the administration may settle for an ephemeral victory at the expense of America’s long-term economic interests. President Trump, by imposing tariffs on Chinese imports, created an opportunity to improve America’s economic relationship with China. It is a chance that may not come again. The American economy is strong, while the Chinese economy is faltering. China still needs American technologies. And despite Mr. Trump’s distaste for multilateralism, much of the rest of the world shares his concerns about China’s economic policies and trade practices. His decision to go it alone, rather than making common cause with longstanding allies, was ill advised, and his tit-for-tat trade war has caused significant pain for many Americans. Farmers and other American exporters lost access to an important market; consumers are paying higher prices on a wide range of goods. But Mr. Trump was right to argue that China has engaged in unfair competition. The question is whether he can win significant concessions. The proper measure of any deal is whether it achieves Mr. Trump’s stated purpose in starting this trade war: persuading China to curb its use of state subsidies, regulations and various kinds of informal interference that limit the ability of American companies to sell goods and services in China, and help Chinese companies sell goods in the United States.  Measured as a share of Chinese gross domestic product, imports of American manufactured products have fallen by more than half since 2000, according to calculations by Brad Setser of the Council on Foreign Relations. One reason is that China aggressively subsidizes the creation of homegrown alternatives. To take a noteworthy example, a government-owned company, the Commercial Aircraft Corporation of China, is developing a single-aisle passenger jet, the C919. The airplane is intended to reduce China’s spending on Boeing 737s — and to create a new rival for Boeing in the global market. China’s lax enforcement of its environmental and labor laws also amounts to a significant subsidy for Chinese manufacturing, and an inducement to relocate American jobs to China. Robert Lighthizer, Mr. Trump’s lead trade negotiator, has said the administration expects to make progress on these issues. But the United States has focused its demands on making it easier for American companies to operate in China, including protections for intellectual property and more leeway for foreign financial firms. China has accelerated work on a foreign investment law that would codify some of those changes, including a ban on the practice of requiring foreign companies to share proprietary technologies with the Chinese. American corporate expansion in China would benefit shareholders and executives. But it would not create factory jobs for American workers, Mr. Trump’s stated goal. What’s more, any promises the administration secures from China require an effective enforcement mechanism. The United States has failed in past efforts to hold China to its commitments through the World Trade Organization and through bilateral talks. The United States also is seeking an enforceable agreement to prevent exchange rate manipulation. China accelerated its development by saving rather than spending much of what it earned from exports to the United States. This suppressed the value of its currency, making its exports relatively cheap and American imports relatively expensive. The failure of previous administrations to hold China to account on this front has passed beyond remedy, and China is no longer engaged in currency manipulation, at least as defined under American law. But a framework to monitor and address manipulation could deter future shenanigans. And other countries continue to engage in currency manipulation at the expense of the United States, so an effective deal with China could serve as a constructive precedent. The looming risk, however, is that Mr. Trump will accept a deal that allows him to claim a superficial triumph without forcing China to make enduring changes.  In particular, the United States should reject any Chinese offer to guarantee large-scale purchases of American agricultural products like soybeans or energy products like liquid natural gas — indeed, guaranteed purchases of any kind. Such deals could serve Mr. Trump’s desire to reduce America’s annual trade deficit with China. But the achievement would be purely cosmetic. The overall balance of America’s imports and exports is important; the balance with any particular country is not. Past administrations have rejected similar offers from China because they run counter to America’s longstanding goal of reducing the Chinese government’s heavy-handed management of the country’s economy.  They would also come at the expense of America’s allies. If China buys more soybeans from North Dakota, it would buy fewer from Brazil. An international consensus that China’s trade policies are problematic has increased pressure on China to make meaningful concessions. Maintaining a unified front would help to ensure that China honors its commitments. Grabbing market share is unlikely to further that objective. Mr. Lighthizer has argued, correctly, that any agreement with China is a step in a long-term process. The United States should not strike a deal that undermines those long-term goals in exchange for ephemeral gains. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Supported by By Michael S. Schmidt and Scott Shane WASHINGTON — The report on the investigation by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, will be made public on Thursday, and unless you’re a counterintelligence analyst, you may have lost track of how we got to this point in the saga and what Mr. Mueller was investigating in the first place. Here is a guide to what has happened over the past three years (yes, it’s been that long) and what we learned.  March 2016 Military intelligence officers in Moscow, working for the agency known as the G.R.U., used phishing emails and malware to hack into the Democratic National Committee and the Gmail account of John Podesta, Hillary Clinton’s campaign manager. Meanwhile, operatives at the Internet Research Agency, a private company in St. Petersburg with Kremlin ties, accelerated their influence campaign, posing as Americans on Facebook and Twitter to mock Mrs. Clinton, promote Mr. Trump and sow discord. Other operatives came to the United States to gather intelligence and coordinate with unwitting Trump campaign staff to organize rallies, according to an indictment. They were all aspects of a broader Russian operation that began in 2014, court papers show. American intelligence agencies would conclude that President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia ordered the intervention. Though it began well before Mr. Trump announced his run, Mr. Putin, who had long despised Mrs. Clinton, was later drawn to Mr. Trump’s Russia-friendly stances. As Mr. Trump gained ground in the race, the Russian operatives adjusted their targets accordingly. Read More: The Perfect Weapon: How Russian Cyberpower Invaded the U.S. The Plot to Subvert an Election: Unraveling the Russia Story So Far July 2016 Three days before the Democratic Party nominated Mrs. Clinton, the anti-secrecy website WikiLeaks released 20,000 emails the Russians had hacked from the D.N.C., embarrassing Democrats and alerting the C.I.A. and F.B.I. to the Russian interference. Days later, F.B.I. agents learned the details of an even more troubling fact: One of Mr. Trump’s campaign advisers, George Papadopoulos, knew in advance about Russia’s plans.  As links between the Trump campaign and Russia emerged, Mr. Trump’s repeated praise for Mr. Putin, and his disdain for NATO and traditional American allies — unusual stances for a Republican — added to suspicions about his relationship with Russia. In late July, the F.B.I. opened an investigation, code-named Crossfire Hurricane, to examine the connections between Trump associates and Russia. The investigation initially focused on Mr. Papadopoulos and three others with significant Russian ties: Paul Manafort, Michael T. Flynn and Carter Page. Read More: Assange, Avowed Foe of Clinton, Timed Email Release for Democratic Convention Code Name Crossfire Hurricane: The Secret Origins of the Trump Investigation December 2016 After Mr. Trump was elected, Mr. Flynn, the incoming national security adviser, discussed with the Russian ambassador the sanctions that President Barack Obama had imposed on Russia over its election interference. But Mr. Flynn lied about the conversations, both to others in the White House and to federal investigators, leading to his dismissal and criminal charges.  Separately, Jared Kushner, the president’s son-in-law, met with a Russian banker during the presidential transition, calling it a routine diplomatic meeting; Russian officials said they had discussed the Kushner family’s real estate business. Incoming Trump administration officials began to explore how sanctions on Russia might be lifted, possibly as a result of a “grand bargain” over its incursions into Ukraine. Some Obama administration holdovers feared an easing of sanctions might be payback for Russian help in the election. Read More: In Closed Hearing, a Clue About ‘the Heart’ of Mueller’s Russia Inquiry Prosecutors Examining Ukrainians Who Flocked to Trump Inaugural Investigation Turns to Kushner’s Motives in Meeting With a Putin Ally Flynn Is Said to Have Talked to Russians About Sanctions Before Trump Took Office January 2017 Weeks before Mr. Trump was inaugurated, the heads of the American intelligence agencies briefed him at Trump Tower about how Russia worked during the campaign to help him defeat Mrs. Clinton. But the information left Mr. Trump unconvinced. After the briefing, the F.B.I. director, James B. Comey, pulled Mr. Trump aside to warn him that a dossier compiled by a bureau informant asserted that the Russians had compromising material on him, though Mr. Comey cautioned that the information had not been corroborated. Throughout the early months of Mr. Trump’s presidency, he grew increasingly agitated with Mr. Comey. The president complained about the bureau’s decision to move forward with the Russia investigation and Mr. Comey’s unwillingness to say publicly that he was not under investigation. Read More: In a Private Dinner, Trump Demanded Loyalty. Comey Demurred. The Trump Dossier: What We Know and Who Paid for It From the Start, Trump Has Muddied a Clear Message: Putin Interfered OP-ED Contributor: I’m Proud We Published the Trump-Russia Dossier May 2017 On May 9, 2017, Mr. Trump fired Mr. Comey, setting off a chain of events that led to the appointment of Mr. Mueller several days later.  Among the issues Mr. Mueller was assigned to investigate: the dimensions of Russia’s interference in the election, including any possible involvement by Trump associates; whether Mr. Trump had obstructed justice by firing Mr. Comey and asking him to end the Flynn investigation; and whether the president was a witting or unwitting agent of Russia. Read More: Robert Mueller, Former F.B.I. Director, Is Named Special Counsel for Russia Investigation What Will Mueller Do? The Answer Might Lie in a By-the-Book Past F.B.I. Opened Inquiry Into Whether Trump Was Secretly Working on Behalf of Russia Talk of the 25th Amendment Underscores a Volatile Presidency June 2017 Mr. Trump stewed about Mr. Mueller’s investigation, blaming Attorney General Jeff Sessions, who had recused himself from oversight of the inquiry on the counsel of ethics advisers. A month after Mr. Mueller’s appointment, a fed-up president told his White House counsel, Donald F. McGahn, to fire Mr. Mueller, but Mr. McGahn refused. The episode was one of many actions and statements by the president, many of them in public, that seemed to be intended to disrupt or derail the Mueller investigation, which Mr. Trump routinely derided as a “witch hunt.” The pattern would feed into Mr. Mueller’s task of deciding whether Mr. Trump had obstructed justice or tried to do so. Read More: Trump Asked Sessions to Retain Control of Russia Inquiry After His Recusal Trump’s Son Met With Russian Lawyer After Being Promised Damaging Information on Clinton Trump Ordered Mueller Fired, but Backed Off When White House Counsel Threatened to Quit October 2017 Mr. Manafort and another senior campaign official, Rick Gates, were indicted on charges of financial crimes related to their work as consultants for a pro-Russian leader of Ukraine. Court papers revealed that Mr. Papadopoulos had pleaded guilty to lying to the F.B.I. about his contacts with Russian intermediaries during the campaign.  A month and a half later, Mr. Flynn also pleaded guilty to lying about his own contacts with the Russians and agreed to cooperate with prosecutors. The investigation, in other words, had already caught up Mr. Trump’s campaign manager and first national security adviser, among many others. Most of the charges involved lying to the F.B.I. or to Congress, and a pressing question for Mr. Mueller’s team was why so many of Mr. Trump’s associates felt compelled to conceal the truth. Read More: Former Trump Aides Charged as Prosecutors Reveal New Campaign Ties With Russia How the Russia Inquiry Began: A Campaign Aide, Drinks and Talk of Political Dirt Michael Flynn Pleads Guilty to Lying to the F.B.I. and Will Cooperate With Russia Inquiry Emails Dispute White House Claims That Flynn Acted Independently on Russia February 2018 In detailed court papers that laid out a major aspect of the Kremlin’s interference scheme, Mr. Mueller charged 13 Russians and three Russian companies for mounting the fraudulent social media campaign. A second indictment would follow in July, naming the Russian military intelligence officers who had hacked and leaked Democratic emails during the campaign. The accused Russians were unlikely ever to be arrested or face trial. But the indictments, packed with remarkable detail, had a political impact: They undercut Mr. Trump’s repeated claims that no one really knew whether Russia was responsible for the election interference or that the Russian actions were a “hoax.” Read More: 13 Russians Indicted as Mueller Reveals Effort to Aid Trump Campaign 12 Russian Agents Indicted in Mueller Investigation 12 Russians Charged: Major Highlights of the Indictment and Rod Rosenstein’s Statement April 2018 Mr. Mueller’s investigators unearthed new leads about possible corruption relating to Mr. Trump beyond Russia. After a referral from Mr. Mueller, federal prosecutors in Manhattan began investigating potential violations of campaign finance laws, raiding the residences and office of Mr. Trump’s longtime lawyer and fixer, Michael D. Cohen. He pleaded guilty in August to illegally paying off two women during the 2016 campaign to silence them about sexual encounters they alleged with Mr. Trump, who has denied the affairs. In court, Mr. Cohen said Mr. Trump directed him to arrange the payments, an assertion echoed by prosecutors months later, effectively tagging Mr. Trump as an unindicted co-conspirator in the crime. Also in August, a jury convicted Mr. Manafort on financial fraud counts, not tied to the Trump campaign but exposing him to a lengthy prison sentence. He would plead guilty in a separate case, agree to cooperate — but later be accused of continuing to lie as prosecutors questioned him under his plea agreement.  Prosecutors would say he had given Konstantin V. Kilimnik, a longtime associate suspected of ties to Russian intelligence, detailed polling data from the presidential campaign. Read More: Michael Cohen Secretly Taped Trump Discussing Payment to Playboy Model Tools of Trump’s Fixer: Payouts, Intimidation and the Tabloids Paul Manafort, Trump’s Former Campaign Chairman, Guilty of 8 Counts December 2018 Mr. Cohen pleaded guilty to another charge: lying to Congress about how long Mr. Trump pursued a real estate project in Russia during 2016. His plea demonstrated that Mr. Trump had continued to negotiate over a proposed Trump Tower Moscow deep into the campaign — even as he publicly encouraged the Russians to hack Mrs. Clinton’s emails and the Kremlin kept up its effort to help his campaign. As the investigations around Mr. Trump intensified at the end of the year, he tried a familiar tactic: He asked his acting attorney general to try to exert more control over the investigations related to Mr. Cohen. In January, Mr. Mueller continued his pursuit of those around Mr. Trump, indicting the president’s longtime adviser, Roger Stone, on charges of lying to Congress about his contacts with WikiLeaks during the campaign. The indictment contained a curious detail. It said that a senior campaign official “was directed” by an unnamed person to have Mr. Stone inquire from WikiLeaks about the future release of material damaging to Mrs. Clinton. Read More: Cohen Pleads Guilty and Details Trump’s Involvement in Moscow Tower Project Prosecutors Effectively Accuse Trump of Defrauding Voters. What Does It Mean? February 2019 In a daylong appearance before the House Oversight Committee, Mr. Cohen turned on the boss he had once said he would “take a bullet” to protect. He said he had only “suspicions” of a Trump-Russia connection but laid out evidence of a range of possible crimes with no Russian connection. He displayed a check signed by the president, he said was to reimburse him for hush money payments, that could implicate Mr. Trump in a campaign finance violation. He described how Mr. Trump inflated and deflated the value of his assets to get loans or reduce taxes, actions that could amount to bank fraud, insurance fraud and tax evasion. He said Mr. Trump had indicated, without directly instructing him, that he should lie to Congress. He described how Mr. Trump had used his charity to purchase a portrait of himself, in evident violation of state laws governing charitable foundations. Read More: Michael Cohen Accuses Trump of Expansive Pattern of Lies and Criminality Testimony From Cohen Could Compound Legal Issues for Trump With Sweeping Document Request, Democrats Launch Broad Trump Corruption Inquiry march 2019 Mr. Mueller delivered a lengthy report to Attorney General William P. Barr last month. Two days later, Mr. Barr announced that Mr. Mueller “did not find that the Trump campaign, or anyone associated with it, conspired or coordinated with" Russia.  A more clouded picture emerged on the question of whether Mr. Trump illegally obstructed justice. Mr. Barr said that Mr. Mueller declined to determine whether Mr. Trump broke the law but also pointedly did not exonerate him. Mr. Barr said that left it to him to make the judgment, and that he and Mr. Rosenstein concluded that Mr. Trump had not violated the law. But some of the special counsel’s investigators told associates that Mr. Barr failed to adequately portray their findings and that they were more troubling for Mr. Trump than his attorney general indicated. Read More: Mueller Delivers Report on Trump-Russia Investigation to Attorney General Mueller Finds No Trump-Russia Conspiracy, but Stops Short of Exonerating President on Obstruction Some on Mueller’s Team Say Report Was More Damaging Than Barr Revealed If Mr. Mueller portrays Mr. Trump as intent on using his power to protect himself and his associates from an investigation, the revelations could prompt Democrats to expand their investigations into the president and even consider impeachment. But if the report simply summarizes what is already known, it could embolden Mr. Trump, who has already begun calling for scrutiny of the investigation’s origins. Michael S. Schmidt is a Washington correspondent covering national security and federal investigations. He was part of two teams that won Pulitzer Prizes in 2018 — one for reporting on workplace sexual harassment and the other for coverage of President Trump and his campaign’s ties to Russia.  @NYTMike  Scott Shane is a national security reporter in Washington. He was part of teams that won Pulitzer Prizes in 2017 for coverage of Russia's projections of power abroad and in 2018 for reporting on Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election.  @ScottShaneNYT • Facebook 

Supported by By Michael S. Schmidt and Scott Shane WASHINGTON — The report on the investigation by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, will be made public on Thursday, and unless you’re a counterintelligence analyst, you may have lost track of how we got to this point in the saga and what Mr. Mueller was investigating in the first place. Here is a guide to what has happened over the past three years (yes, it’s been that long) and what we learned.  March 2016 Military intelligence officers in Moscow, working for the agency known as the G.R.U., used phishing emails and malware to hack into the Democratic National Committee and the Gmail account of John Podesta, Hillary Clinton’s campaign manager. Meanwhile, operatives at the Internet Research Agency, a private company in St. Petersburg with Kremlin ties, accelerated their influence campaign, posing as Americans on Facebook and Twitter to mock Mrs. Clinton, promote Mr. Trump and sow discord. Other operatives came to the United States to gather intelligence and coordinate with unwitting Trump campaign staff to organize rallies, according to an indictment. They were all aspects of a broader Russian operation that began in 2014, court papers show. American intelligence agencies would conclude that President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia ordered the intervention. Though it began well before Mr. Trump announced his run, Mr. Putin, who had long despised Mrs. Clinton, was later drawn to Mr. Trump’s Russia-friendly stances. As Mr. Trump gained ground in the race, the Russian operatives adjusted their targets accordingly. Read More: The Perfect Weapon: How Russian Cyberpower Invaded the U.S. The Plot to Subvert an Election: Unraveling the Russia Story So Far July 2016 Three days before the Democratic Party nominated Mrs. Clinton, the anti-secrecy website WikiLeaks released 20,000 emails the Russians had hacked from the D.N.C., embarrassing Democrats and alerting the C.I.A. and F.B.I. to the Russian interference. Days later, F.B.I. agents learned the details of an even more troubling fact: One of Mr. Trump’s campaign advisers, George Papadopoulos, knew in advance about Russia’s plans.  As links between the Trump campaign and Russia emerged, Mr. Trump’s repeated praise for Mr. Putin, and his disdain for NATO and traditional American allies — unusual stances for a Republican — added to suspicions about his relationship with Russia. In late July, the F.B.I. opened an investigation, code-named Crossfire Hurricane, to examine the connections between Trump associates and Russia. The investigation initially focused on Mr. Papadopoulos and three others with significant Russian ties: Paul Manafort, Michael T. Flynn and Carter Page. Read More: Assange, Avowed Foe of Clinton, Timed Email Release for Democratic Convention Code Name Crossfire Hurricane: The Secret Origins of the Trump Investigation December 2016 After Mr. Trump was elected, Mr. Flynn, the incoming national security adviser, discussed with the Russian ambassador the sanctions that President Barack Obama had imposed on Russia over its election interference. But Mr. Flynn lied about the conversations, both to others in the White House and to federal investigators, leading to his dismissal and criminal charges.  Separately, Jared Kushner, the president’s son-in-law, met with a Russian banker during the presidential transition, calling it a routine diplomatic meeting; Russian officials said they had discussed the Kushner family’s real estate business. Incoming Trump administration officials began to explore how sanctions on Russia might be lifted, possibly as a result of a “grand bargain” over its incursions into Ukraine. Some Obama administration holdovers feared an easing of sanctions might be payback for Russian help in the election. Read More: In Closed Hearing, a Clue About ‘the Heart’ of Mueller’s Russia Inquiry Prosecutors Examining Ukrainians Who Flocked to Trump Inaugural Investigation Turns to Kushner’s Motives in Meeting With a Putin Ally Flynn Is Said to Have Talked to Russians About Sanctions Before Trump Took Office January 2017 Weeks before Mr. Trump was inaugurated, the heads of the American intelligence agencies briefed him at Trump Tower about how Russia worked during the campaign to help him defeat Mrs. Clinton. But the information left Mr. Trump unconvinced. After the briefing, the F.B.I. director, James B. Comey, pulled Mr. Trump aside to warn him that a dossier compiled by a bureau informant asserted that the Russians had compromising material on him, though Mr. Comey cautioned that the information had not been corroborated. Throughout the early months of Mr. Trump’s presidency, he grew increasingly agitated with Mr. Comey. The president complained about the bureau’s decision to move forward with the Russia investigation and Mr. Comey’s unwillingness to say publicly that he was not under investigation. Read More: In a Private Dinner, Trump Demanded Loyalty. Comey Demurred. The Trump Dossier: What We Know and Who Paid for It From the Start, Trump Has Muddied a Clear Message: Putin Interfered OP-ED Contributor: I’m Proud We Published the Trump-Russia Dossier May 2017 On May 9, 2017, Mr. Trump fired Mr. Comey, setting off a chain of events that led to the appointment of Mr. Mueller several days later.  Among the issues Mr. Mueller was assigned to investigate: the dimensions of Russia’s interference in the election, including any possible involvement by Trump associates; whether Mr. Trump had obstructed justice by firing Mr. Comey and asking him to end the Flynn investigation; and whether the president was a witting or unwitting agent of Russia. Read More: Robert Mueller, Former F.B.I. Director, Is Named Special Counsel for Russia Investigation What Will Mueller Do? The Answer Might Lie in a By-the-Book Past F.B.I. Opened Inquiry Into Whether Trump Was Secretly Working on Behalf of Russia Talk of the 25th Amendment Underscores a Volatile Presidency June 2017 Mr. Trump stewed about Mr. Mueller’s investigation, blaming Attorney General Jeff Sessions, who had recused himself from oversight of the inquiry on the counsel of ethics advisers. A month after Mr. Mueller’s appointment, a fed-up president told his White House counsel, Donald F. McGahn, to fire Mr. Mueller, but Mr. McGahn refused. The episode was one of many actions and statements by the president, many of them in public, that seemed to be intended to disrupt or derail the Mueller investigation, which Mr. Trump routinely derided as a “witch hunt.” The pattern would feed into Mr. Mueller’s task of deciding whether Mr. Trump had obstructed justice or tried to do so. Read More: Trump Asked Sessions to Retain Control of Russia Inquiry After His Recusal Trump’s Son Met With Russian Lawyer After Being Promised Damaging Information on Clinton Trump Ordered Mueller Fired, but Backed Off When White House Counsel Threatened to Quit October 2017 Mr. Manafort and another senior campaign official, Rick Gates, were indicted on charges of financial crimes related to their work as consultants for a pro-Russian leader of Ukraine. Court papers revealed that Mr. Papadopoulos had pleaded guilty to lying to the F.B.I. about his contacts with Russian intermediaries during the campaign.  A month and a half later, Mr. Flynn also pleaded guilty to lying about his own contacts with the Russians and agreed to cooperate with prosecutors. The investigation, in other words, had already caught up Mr. Trump’s campaign manager and first national security adviser, among many others. Most of the charges involved lying to the F.B.I. or to Congress, and a pressing question for Mr. Mueller’s team was why so many of Mr. Trump’s associates felt compelled to conceal the truth. Read More: Former Trump Aides Charged as Prosecutors Reveal New Campaign Ties With Russia How the Russia Inquiry Began: A Campaign Aide, Drinks and Talk of Political Dirt Michael Flynn Pleads Guilty to Lying to the F.B.I. and Will Cooperate With Russia Inquiry Emails Dispute White House Claims That Flynn Acted Independently on Russia February 2018 In detailed court papers that laid out a major aspect of the Kremlin’s interference scheme, Mr. Mueller charged 13 Russians and three Russian companies for mounting the fraudulent social media campaign. A second indictment would follow in July, naming the Russian military intelligence officers who had hacked and leaked Democratic emails during the campaign. The accused Russians were unlikely ever to be arrested or face trial. But the indictments, packed with remarkable detail, had a political impact: They undercut Mr. Trump’s repeated claims that no one really knew whether Russia was responsible for the election interference or that the Russian actions were a “hoax.” Read More: 13 Russians Indicted as Mueller Reveals Effort to Aid Trump Campaign 12 Russian Agents Indicted in Mueller Investigation 12 Russians Charged: Major Highlights of the Indictment and Rod Rosenstein’s Statement April 2018 Mr. Mueller’s investigators unearthed new leads about possible corruption relating to Mr. Trump beyond Russia. After a referral from Mr. Mueller, federal prosecutors in Manhattan began investigating potential violations of campaign finance laws, raiding the residences and office of Mr. Trump’s longtime lawyer and fixer, Michael D. Cohen. He pleaded guilty in August to illegally paying off two women during the 2016 campaign to silence them about sexual encounters they alleged with Mr. Trump, who has denied the affairs. In court, Mr. Cohen said Mr. Trump directed him to arrange the payments, an assertion echoed by prosecutors months later, effectively tagging Mr. Trump as an unindicted co-conspirator in the crime. Also in August, a jury convicted Mr. Manafort on financial fraud counts, not tied to the Trump campaign but exposing him to a lengthy prison sentence. He would plead guilty in a separate case, agree to cooperate — but later be accused of continuing to lie as prosecutors questioned him under his plea agreement.  Prosecutors would say he had given Konstantin V. Kilimnik, a longtime associate suspected of ties to Russian intelligence, detailed polling data from the presidential campaign. Read More: Michael Cohen Secretly Taped Trump Discussing Payment to Playboy Model Tools of Trump’s Fixer: Payouts, Intimidation and the Tabloids Paul Manafort, Trump’s Former Campaign Chairman, Guilty of 8 Counts December 2018 Mr. Cohen pleaded guilty to another charge: lying to Congress about how long Mr. Trump pursued a real estate project in Russia during 2016. His plea demonstrated that Mr. Trump had continued to negotiate over a proposed Trump Tower Moscow deep into the campaign — even as he publicly encouraged the Russians to hack Mrs. Clinton’s emails and the Kremlin kept up its effort to help his campaign. As the investigations around Mr. Trump intensified at the end of the year, he tried a familiar tactic: He asked his acting attorney general to try to exert more control over the investigations related to Mr. Cohen. In January, Mr. Mueller continued his pursuit of those around Mr. Trump, indicting the president’s longtime adviser, Roger Stone, on charges of lying to Congress about his contacts with WikiLeaks during the campaign. The indictment contained a curious detail. It said that a senior campaign official “was directed” by an unnamed person to have Mr. Stone inquire from WikiLeaks about the future release of material damaging to Mrs. Clinton. Read More: Cohen Pleads Guilty and Details Trump’s Involvement in Moscow Tower Project Prosecutors Effectively Accuse Trump of Defrauding Voters. What Does It Mean? February 2019 In a daylong appearance before the House Oversight Committee, Mr. Cohen turned on the boss he had once said he would “take a bullet” to protect. He said he had only “suspicions” of a Trump-Russia connection but laid out evidence of a range of possible crimes with no Russian connection. He displayed a check signed by the president, he said was to reimburse him for hush money payments, that could implicate Mr. Trump in a campaign finance violation. He described how Mr. Trump inflated and deflated the value of his assets to get loans or reduce taxes, actions that could amount to bank fraud, insurance fraud and tax evasion. He said Mr. Trump had indicated, without directly instructing him, that he should lie to Congress. He described how Mr. Trump had used his charity to purchase a portrait of himself, in evident violation of state laws governing charitable foundations. Read More: Michael Cohen Accuses Trump of Expansive Pattern of Lies and Criminality Testimony From Cohen Could Compound Legal Issues for Trump With Sweeping Document Request, Democrats Launch Broad Trump Corruption Inquiry march 2019 Mr. Mueller delivered a lengthy report to Attorney General William P. Barr last month. Two days later, Mr. Barr announced that Mr. Mueller “did not find that the Trump campaign, or anyone associated with it, conspired or coordinated with" Russia.  A more clouded picture emerged on the question of whether Mr. Trump illegally obstructed justice. Mr. Barr said that Mr. Mueller declined to determine whether Mr. Trump broke the law but also pointedly did not exonerate him. Mr. Barr said that left it to him to make the judgment, and that he and Mr. Rosenstein concluded that Mr. Trump had not violated the law. But some of the special counsel’s investigators told associates that Mr. Barr failed to adequately portray their findings and that they were more troubling for Mr. Trump than his attorney general indicated. Read More: Mueller Delivers Report on Trump-Russia Investigation to Attorney General Mueller Finds No Trump-Russia Conspiracy, but Stops Short of Exonerating President on Obstruction Some on Mueller’s Team Say Report Was More Damaging Than Barr Revealed If Mr. Mueller portrays Mr. Trump as intent on using his power to protect himself and his associates from an investigation, the revelations could prompt Democrats to expand their investigations into the president and even consider impeachment. But if the report simply summarizes what is already known, it could embolden Mr. Trump, who has already begun calling for scrutiny of the investigation’s origins. Michael S. Schmidt is a Washington correspondent covering national security and federal investigations. He was part of two teams that won Pulitzer Prizes in 2018 — one for reporting on workplace sexual harassment and the other for coverage of President Trump and his campaign’s ties to Russia.  @NYTMike  Scott Shane is a national security reporter in Washington. He was part of teams that won Pulitzer Prizes in 2017 for coverage of Russia's projections of power abroad and in 2018 for reporting on Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election.  @ScottShaneNYT • Facebook Supported by They’ve got better things to do in Dripping Springs. By Gail Collins Opinion Columnist So. Michael Cohen started off his testimony by declaring that the president of the United States was “a racist,” a “con man” and a “cheat.” The Republicans who were supposed to be grilling him responded by saying … um. Well, mainly they complained that the hearing was happening. (“I am appalled. We could be focused on actual issues that are facing America, like border security.”) Nobody jumped up and yelled: “A racist? How dare you call this man a racist?” To be fair, one Republican committee member did demur, and brought in a black government appointee to stand there and look diverse. But you couldn’t say there were a lot of expressions of shock. Nobody announced having it on good authority that all those checks Cohen got from Trump were not reimbursements for the Stormy Daniels payoff, but rather anonymous donations to an orphanage. The Republicans simply argued, over and over, that the whole thing was a dumb waste of time. “I talked to my beautiful wife back in Dripping Springs, Tex., just before the hearing. I said, ‘Don’t bother watching,’” said Representative Chip Roy. The hearing was before the House Oversight Committee, which is, of course, now under new Democratic control. Cohen showed the members a $35,000 check that he said the president gave him as a partial repayment for the Stormy Daniels payoff. Nothing better than an evidence exhibit. But the public is so inured to Trump scandals now there’s almost no way to raise new excitement about Stormy’s sex-with-the-future-president story. Unless Cohen could have demonstrated that his then-boss wrote “hush money” on the check memo. Nevertheless, there are always new things to be learned. For instance, Cohen testified about Donald Trump Jr.’s role in the payoff deal. In passing, he said the president thought his son had “the worst judgment of anyone in the world.” Wonder how Junior reacted to that? This was presumably before Ivanka, who’s supposed to be the bright one in the family, denounced the idea of a guaranteed minimum wage because she felt all Americans “want to work for what they get.” Cohen claimed that in all his years of serving as Trump’s hatchet man he never once heard his boss “say anything in private that led me to believe that he loved our nation or wanted to make it better.” That could have been a cue for Republicans to offer up a multitude of examples to the contrary. But for the most part, all we got was one white male representative after another announcing that Cohen had to be ignored because he’s due to go to “prison for lying.” Almost everybody who knows Donald Trump appears to be going to prison for lying. Or is awaiting sentencing for lying. Or is facing charges of lying. If you are a Donald Trump intimate and the federal authorities come calling, be careful to tell the truth. Or move to Papua New Guinea. Even for the most jaded Trump watcher, there were parts of the Cohen testimony worth discussing. For instance, he said Trump threatened legal action to make sure his old high school, colleges and the College Board kept his grades and SAT score secret. Certainly not a surprise that Trump doesn’t want to publicize the details of his academic career. But still a great question to keep harping on, if only because it will drive him completely nuts. Maybe every day the House Democrats could make a speech about it on the floor. And introduce a C student with a sense of humor who could announce he’s proud to be following in the presidential footsteps of intellectual mediocrity. Cohen testified that Trump had him going back and forth with Forbes magazine in an attempt to get a good spot on the Wealthiest list. While simultaneously trying to push down the income he reported for tax purposes. Let’s hope the Democrats use it as another lever to get their hands on those tax returns. Truly that would be a development even better than calling Donald Jr. to testify about his role in the Cohen payments and his father’s assessment of his judgment. We certainly know that Cohen is not … perfect. After all, he spent 12 years as Trump’s lawyer. Representative Jim Jordan, the top Republican on the committee, even brought up Women for Cohen, an account put up to promote his little-known role as a “sex symbol.” But Cohen made a pretty good witness, looking appropriately miserable and answering questions convincingly, with some balance. He told the lawmakers rumors about a mystery tape showing Trump hitting his wife in an elevator were untrue and “in my opinion that’s not something he would do.” On the other hand, he said Trump did make him call Melania and lie about the Stormy Daniels unpleasantness. While all this was going on, the president was in Asia, dining with Kim Jong-un of North Korea. Previous negotiations with Kim have produced monster publicity and very little in the way of nuclear disarmament. Nevertheless, Trump seems to believe this may get him a Nobel Peace Prize. He really seems to want that a lot. Maybe if the Nobel committee offered to trade it for his tax returns … The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Gail Collins is an Op-Ed columnist, a former member of the editorial board and was the first woman to serve as Times editorial page editor, from 2001 to 2007.  @GailCollins • Facebook 

Supported by They’ve got better things to do in Dripping Springs. By Gail Collins Opinion Columnist So. Michael Cohen started off his testimony by declaring that the president of the United States was “a racist,” a “con man” and a “cheat.” The Republicans who were supposed to be grilling him responded by saying … um. Well, mainly they complained that the hearing was happening. (“I am appalled. We could be focused on actual issues that are facing America, like border security.”) Nobody jumped up and yelled: “A racist? How dare you call this man a racist?” To be fair, one Republican committee member did demur, and brought in a black government appointee to stand there and look diverse. But you couldn’t say there were a lot of expressions of shock. Nobody announced having it on good authority that all those checks Cohen got from Trump were not reimbursements for the Stormy Daniels payoff, but rather anonymous donations to an orphanage. The Republicans simply argued, over and over, that the whole thing was a dumb waste of time. “I talked to my beautiful wife back in Dripping Springs, Tex., just before the hearing. I said, ‘Don’t bother watching,’” said Representative Chip Roy. The hearing was before the House Oversight Committee, which is, of course, now under new Democratic control. Cohen showed the members a $35,000 check that he said the president gave him as a partial repayment for the Stormy Daniels payoff. Nothing better than an evidence exhibit. But the public is so inured to Trump scandals now there’s almost no way to raise new excitement about Stormy’s sex-with-the-future-president story. Unless Cohen could have demonstrated that his then-boss wrote “hush money” on the check memo. Nevertheless, there are always new things to be learned. For instance, Cohen testified about Donald Trump Jr.’s role in the payoff deal. In passing, he said the president thought his son had “the worst judgment of anyone in the world.” Wonder how Junior reacted to that? This was presumably before Ivanka, who’s supposed to be the bright one in the family, denounced the idea of a guaranteed minimum wage because she felt all Americans “want to work for what they get.” Cohen claimed that in all his years of serving as Trump’s hatchet man he never once heard his boss “say anything in private that led me to believe that he loved our nation or wanted to make it better.” That could have been a cue for Republicans to offer up a multitude of examples to the contrary. But for the most part, all we got was one white male representative after another announcing that Cohen had to be ignored because he’s due to go to “prison for lying.” Almost everybody who knows Donald Trump appears to be going to prison for lying. Or is awaiting sentencing for lying. Or is facing charges of lying. If you are a Donald Trump intimate and the federal authorities come calling, be careful to tell the truth. Or move to Papua New Guinea. Even for the most jaded Trump watcher, there were parts of the Cohen testimony worth discussing. For instance, he said Trump threatened legal action to make sure his old high school, colleges and the College Board kept his grades and SAT score secret. Certainly not a surprise that Trump doesn’t want to publicize the details of his academic career. But still a great question to keep harping on, if only because it will drive him completely nuts. Maybe every day the House Democrats could make a speech about it on the floor. And introduce a C student with a sense of humor who could announce he’s proud to be following in the presidential footsteps of intellectual mediocrity. Cohen testified that Trump had him going back and forth with Forbes magazine in an attempt to get a good spot on the Wealthiest list. While simultaneously trying to push down the income he reported for tax purposes. Let’s hope the Democrats use it as another lever to get their hands on those tax returns. Truly that would be a development even better than calling Donald Jr. to testify about his role in the Cohen payments and his father’s assessment of his judgment. We certainly know that Cohen is not … perfect. After all, he spent 12 years as Trump’s lawyer. Representative Jim Jordan, the top Republican on the committee, even brought up Women for Cohen, an account put up to promote his little-known role as a “sex symbol.” But Cohen made a pretty good witness, looking appropriately miserable and answering questions convincingly, with some balance. He told the lawmakers rumors about a mystery tape showing Trump hitting his wife in an elevator were untrue and “in my opinion that’s not something he would do.” On the other hand, he said Trump did make him call Melania and lie about the Stormy Daniels unpleasantness. While all this was going on, the president was in Asia, dining with Kim Jong-un of North Korea. Previous negotiations with Kim have produced monster publicity and very little in the way of nuclear disarmament. Nevertheless, Trump seems to believe this may get him a Nobel Peace Prize. He really seems to want that a lot. Maybe if the Nobel committee offered to trade it for his tax returns … The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Gail Collins is an Op-Ed columnist, a former member of the editorial board and was the first woman to serve as Times editorial page editor, from 2001 to 2007.  @GailCollins • Facebook Supported by The American and North Korean leaders’ delusions about getting the prize may improve their work on a nuclear deal.  By Nicholas Kristof Opinion Columnist As President Trump and Kim Jong-un hold a summit meeting next week in Vietnam, they have something in common: Each apparently looks in the mirror and sees a Nobel Peace Prize winner. “If not for me, we would now be at War with North Korea!” Trump tweeted last summer. He seems to see his legacy in part as the great peacemaker of the Korean Peninsula and recently boasted that Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe had nominated him for the Nobel Peace Prize. “Many other people feel that way, too,” Trump told reporters, as he spoke about the “beautiful” letter that Abe had written to nominate him. Abe, apparently mortified that his effort to stroke Trump had become public, refused to confirm this. And two leading Japanese newspapers, The Asahi Shimbun and The Yomiuri Shimbun, reported that Abe’s letter was written at the White House’s request. In surprising symmetry, North Korea is said to be abuzz with talk about the Nobel Peace Prize and the possibility that it could be awarded to Kim. The Kims are generally overachievers: Kim is said to have started driving at age 3, and his father had five holes-in-one in his first game of golf, not to mention a perfect score of 300 the first time he bowled. It is, of course, delusion to think that either Trump or Kim will win the Nobel Peace Prize, and in general it’s not a good thing for leaders to go into a summit delusional. Many security officials in the United States and abroad worry that in his quest for the prize, Trump might make some rash pledge, such as to withdraw American forces from South Korea. But delusions can be helpful if they make each side more willing to make concessions and pursue an arduous peace process. I don’t think there is any prospect of North Korea handing over its nuclear weapons soon, but it is possible to see a diplomatic path that leaves the world safer — and there’s a fighting chance that we might achieve this. Last year, Trump was bamboozled at his first meeting with Kim. There were minimal preparations, and Trump made major concessions such as suspending military exercises in exchange for nothing as significant. Trump compounded his diplomatic ineptitude with rhetorical grandiosity. He tweeted, “There is no longer a Nuclear Threat from North Korea,” and he later asserted that Kim had sent him “beautiful letters” and “we fell in love.” In fact, the North Korean threat remained. Indeed, North Korea has apparently continued to produce nuclear fuel and operate its missile bases. American intelligence officials bluntly told a Senate committee this year that North Korea is unlikely to denuclearize. Yet if Trump was hoodwinked last year, there are some more hopeful signs this time. He has appointed a well-respected special envoy, Stephen Biegun, and both Biegun and Trump have been signaling that they are now realistic about trade-offs and a timeline, with Trump saying that North Korea will denuclearize “ultimately” and that “I’m in no rush.” Here’s what a plausible deal might look like. North Korea would promise to dismantle its Yongbyon nuclear complex and a couple of less important sites, admit international inspectors and continue its moratorium on nuclear and missile tests. In exchange, the United States would relax sanctions on inter-Korean projects involving tourism and manufacturing. The two sides could also declare that the Korean War has ended, exchange diplomatic liaison offices, ease cultural exchanges and agree on a path forward chipping away at the nuclear program. In some sense this is Kabuki. On my last visit to North Korea, in 2017, officials spoke of learning from Libya that if you give up your nuclear program, America may then topple your government. So I suspect Kim has zero plans to give up his nuclear weapons. But even without full denuclearization, it is progress if there is a freeze on testing, a halt to nuclear production, an easing of tensions and an agreement on future steps. When an American crossed into North Korea from China last fall, the North Koreans expelled him rather than imprisoned him as a bargaining chip. The United States has likewise eased rules on humanitarian aid to North Korea.  Trump and Kim may claim some magical breakthrough, perhaps around a declaration of the end of the Korean War. But don’t believe any magic. This is not a problem that will be solved this month or this year. At its best, this will be a slog. We should pray that U.S.-North Korea relations become boring. The greatest threat of this presidency was that Trump would stumble into a nuclear war, and in 2017 and 2018 the Pentagon was deeply concerned that this was a risk with Trump-Kim brinkmanship and Trump’s boast that his nuclear button was bigger than Kim’s. If he and Kim pursue a painstaking peace process instead, in some illusory quest for a Nobel Peace Prize, we can live with that. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Nicholas Kristof has been a columnist for The Times since 2001. He has won two Pulitzer Prizes, for his coverage of China and of the genocide in Darfur. You can sign up for his free, twice-weekly email newsletter and follow him on Instagram.  @NickKristof • Facebook 

Supported by The American and North Korean leaders’ delusions about getting the prize may improve their work on a nuclear deal.  By Nicholas Kristof Opinion Columnist As President Trump and Kim Jong-un hold a summit meeting next week in Vietnam, they have something in common: Each apparently looks in the mirror and sees a Nobel Peace Prize winner. “If not for me, we would now be at War with North Korea!” Trump tweeted last summer. He seems to see his legacy in part as the great peacemaker of the Korean Peninsula and recently boasted that Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe had nominated him for the Nobel Peace Prize. “Many other people feel that way, too,” Trump told reporters, as he spoke about the “beautiful” letter that Abe had written to nominate him. Abe, apparently mortified that his effort to stroke Trump had become public, refused to confirm this. And two leading Japanese newspapers, The Asahi Shimbun and The Yomiuri Shimbun, reported that Abe’s letter was written at the White House’s request. In surprising symmetry, North Korea is said to be abuzz with talk about the Nobel Peace Prize and the possibility that it could be awarded to Kim. The Kims are generally overachievers: Kim is said to have started driving at age 3, and his father had five holes-in-one in his first game of golf, not to mention a perfect score of 300 the first time he bowled. It is, of course, delusion to think that either Trump or Kim will win the Nobel Peace Prize, and in general it’s not a good thing for leaders to go into a summit delusional. Many security officials in the United States and abroad worry that in his quest for the prize, Trump might make some rash pledge, such as to withdraw American forces from South Korea. But delusions can be helpful if they make each side more willing to make concessions and pursue an arduous peace process. I don’t think there is any prospect of North Korea handing over its nuclear weapons soon, but it is possible to see a diplomatic path that leaves the world safer — and there’s a fighting chance that we might achieve this. Last year, Trump was bamboozled at his first meeting with Kim. There were minimal preparations, and Trump made major concessions such as suspending military exercises in exchange for nothing as significant. Trump compounded his diplomatic ineptitude with rhetorical grandiosity. He tweeted, “There is no longer a Nuclear Threat from North Korea,” and he later asserted that Kim had sent him “beautiful letters” and “we fell in love.” In fact, the North Korean threat remained. Indeed, North Korea has apparently continued to produce nuclear fuel and operate its missile bases. American intelligence officials bluntly told a Senate committee this year that North Korea is unlikely to denuclearize. Yet if Trump was hoodwinked last year, there are some more hopeful signs this time. He has appointed a well-respected special envoy, Stephen Biegun, and both Biegun and Trump have been signaling that they are now realistic about trade-offs and a timeline, with Trump saying that North Korea will denuclearize “ultimately” and that “I’m in no rush.” Here’s what a plausible deal might look like. North Korea would promise to dismantle its Yongbyon nuclear complex and a couple of less important sites, admit international inspectors and continue its moratorium on nuclear and missile tests. In exchange, the United States would relax sanctions on inter-Korean projects involving tourism and manufacturing. The two sides could also declare that the Korean War has ended, exchange diplomatic liaison offices, ease cultural exchanges and agree on a path forward chipping away at the nuclear program. In some sense this is Kabuki. On my last visit to North Korea, in 2017, officials spoke of learning from Libya that if you give up your nuclear program, America may then topple your government. So I suspect Kim has zero plans to give up his nuclear weapons. But even without full denuclearization, it is progress if there is a freeze on testing, a halt to nuclear production, an easing of tensions and an agreement on future steps. When an American crossed into North Korea from China last fall, the North Koreans expelled him rather than imprisoned him as a bargaining chip. The United States has likewise eased rules on humanitarian aid to North Korea.  Trump and Kim may claim some magical breakthrough, perhaps around a declaration of the end of the Korean War. But don’t believe any magic. This is not a problem that will be solved this month or this year. At its best, this will be a slog. We should pray that U.S.-North Korea relations become boring. The greatest threat of this presidency was that Trump would stumble into a nuclear war, and in 2017 and 2018 the Pentagon was deeply concerned that this was a risk with Trump-Kim brinkmanship and Trump’s boast that his nuclear button was bigger than Kim’s. If he and Kim pursue a painstaking peace process instead, in some illusory quest for a Nobel Peace Prize, we can live with that. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Nicholas Kristof has been a columnist for The Times since 2001. He has won two Pulitzer Prizes, for his coverage of China and of the genocide in Darfur. You can sign up for his free, twice-weekly email newsletter and follow him on Instagram.  @NickKristof • Facebook Supported by A chaotic administration’s unexpectedly coherent grand strategy. By Ross Douthat Opinion Columnist Two years into his presidency Donald Trump has no clear legislative strategy, no policy agenda, no plan for remedying his persistent unpopularity and a path to re-election sufficiently bleak that he’s trying to bait a political naïf, the Starbucks billionaire Howard Schultz, into running as a third-party spoiler. Also, he might be impeached. Yet at the same time, amid all the domestic chaos and incompetence and political malpractice, this administration continues to act in foreign policy — not tweet obnoxiously, not rage behind the scenes, but act — as though it’s following a serious grand strategy, one sufficiently coherent and plausible and forward-looking that future presidents might reasonably imitate it. This Trump doctrine, in practice, isn’t the isolationism that he sometimes promised on the campaign trail; nor is it the flailing bellicosity that many of his critics feared. It’s a doctrine of disentanglement, retrenchment and realignment, in which the United States tries to abandon its most idealistic hopes and unrealistic military commitments, narrow its list of potential enemies and consolidate its attempts at influence. The overarching goal isn’t to cede United States primacy or abandon American alliances, as Trump’s opponents often charge; rather, it’s to maintain American primacy on a more manageable footing, while focusing more energy and effort on containing the power and influence of China. Consider the two administration efforts in the news this week. The first is the White House’s decision to support the opposition leader in Venezuela and build a coalition to undermine the dictatorial Maduro government. The second is the advancing effort to negotiate a deal with the Taliban that would end America’s 17-years-and-counting military commitment in Afghanistan. If a deal is struck and our forces actually withdraw, Trump’s personal skepticism of the Afghanistan intervention will have helped produce an outcome that large parts of our foreign policy establishment long resisted — an endgame that accepts the possibility of true defeat, a full Taliban takeover, as the price of reducing American commitments and bringing American troops home. At the same, the Venezuelan effort is striking in its establishment-foreign-policy normalcy. Trying to undermine a left-wing Latin American dictator while talking in flowery language about human rights is the kind of policy you might have expected from a President Marco Rubio (who is, indeed, a prime mover behind the policy), and as Uri Friedman of The Atlantic wrote, the strategy has been advanced in a very un-Trump-y way: With “a well-oiled diplomatic campaign, closely coordinated with allies and rigorously on message.” There’s even a Reagan and George W. Bush hand, Elliott Abrams, on hand to help run the administration’s policy. To Friedman, this normalcy is strange and dissonant and hypocritical. “Here was a president who preaches America First, who rarely invokes democracy and human rights in his unscripted remarks, who has voiced admiration for dictators such as Vladimir Putin and Kim Jong Un, sticking his neck out to restore democracy in a country that doesn’t usually figure among the top challenges to U.S. interests.” But in fact the administration’s different approaches can be harmonized. No American president before the end of the Cold War would have found it strange or dissonant to take an interventionist and self-righteous line where Latin America was concerned, while accepting deals with bad actors and wooing autocrats in more far-flung and global theaters. There is a rhetorical tension, obviously, involved in defending human rights in Venezuela while you ponder a treaty with the Taliban and seek an accommodation with Kim Jong-un or Bashar al-Assad — and Trump is not exactly the master of rhetorical finesse. But from the Monroe Doctrine onward the United States has traditionally treated our hemispheric neighbors differently than Eurasian powers — for the very sound strategic reason that they are close to us and countries like Syria and Afghanistan are not. This reasoning was abandoned by post-Cold War presidents, and especially by George W. Bush, in the heady days when it appeared that America could project power as easily in Kabul as in the Caribbean. And despite the Iraq disaster most of Bush’s would-be Republican heirs — John McCain and Mitt Romney as well as Rubio and Jeb! — maintained a similarly maximalist posture, in which every theater was supposedly a vital one, every tyrant a potential enemy, and we should be prepared to fight in Afghanistan and Syria and Libya and eastern Ukraine as readily as we would fight for a NATO ally. Compared with that vision, the Trump doctrine aims for a more limited and sustainable view of American commitments. Along with jihadism it seeks to confront and contain two major state-based enemies, China and Iran, and it takes a harsh line toward their potential allies and clients in the Americas. But it has no nation-building ambitions in the Muslim world, no dreams of pushing NATO into the Caucasus, and in East Asia it’s trying to woo the Kim regime into some kind of bizarre friendship instead of acting like Pyongyang is just as great a long-term danger as its patron in Beijing. The administration’s official European goals (if not Trump’s behind-the-scenes anti-NATO grumbling) also fit plausibly into its larger framework: Building up a stronger military presence on NATO’s Russia-facing flank while getting other countries to bear more of the military burden is the most plausible way to preserve the Western alliance’s basic purposes while the United States refocuses on China. And in the long run, Trump’s dream (whatever its motivations) of a better working relationship with Russia also fits with a retrench-and-refocus framework — with the major caveat that Putin seems too interested in disruption to make a genuine and cooperative détente imaginable for now. Let me stress that I don’t think that Trump’s grand strategy is springing fully formed from the president’s own mind (he isn’t scribbling notes about the Monroe Doctrine, I assume), or for that matter anyone else’s; instead it’s emerging organically as a synthesis of his own blustering, quasi-isolationist impulses and the more hawkish and internationalist and status-quo-oriented views of the people working for him. That makes it interesting for future international-relations scholars to study — but also vulnerable to sudden changes of personnel or presidential mood. (If we unleash a ground war in Venezuela tomorrow in a fit of Trumpian pique, you can disregard this column’s analysis.) And of course it has other vulnerabilities as well. Events often destroy even well-thought-through grand strategies, and every foreign-policy maneuver carries risks. The hawks who fear that jihadism will surge if we pull back from Afghanistan and Syria could be vindicated. So could the institutionalists who fear that Trump’s bluster is damaging our standing and disillusioning our friends, and the human rights activists who regard this administration’s cynicism as a carte blanche for thugs and dictators, and the simple Trump-fearers (like myself) who worry that he could make a truly catastrophic blunder should, say, the North Korea negotiations blow up or a real crisis with Russia or China comes along. But those of us who fear Trump also need to be honest when he exceeds our expectations. Before his election, I wanted a Republican foreign policy that was less hubristic and more calculating than what most leading G.O.P. politicians were offering, that showed a willingness to limit foreign interventions and conduct diplomatic experiments while also trying to maintain United States primacy in a more multipolar, Chinese-influenced world. Within certain limits, and with a lot of stumbling and bluster, that’s roughly what Trump has delivered. And however his foreign policy looks by November 2020, I suspect that future administrations of both parties will often find themselves imitating the strategy of his first two years.  Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTOpinion) and Instagram, join the Facebook political discussion group, Voting While Female. Ross Douthat has been an Opinion columnist for The Times since 2009. He is the author of several books, most recently, “To Change the Church: Pope Francis and the Future of Catholicism.”
You can follow him on Twitter:  @DouthatNYT  You can follow him on Twitter:  @DouthatNYT 

Supported by A chaotic administration’s unexpectedly coherent grand strategy. By Ross Douthat Opinion Columnist Two years into his presidency Donald Trump has no clear legislative strategy, no policy agenda, no plan for remedying his persistent unpopularity and a path to re-election sufficiently bleak that he’s trying to bait a political naïf, the Starbucks billionaire Howard Schultz, into running as a third-party spoiler. Also, he might be impeached. Yet at the same time, amid all the domestic chaos and incompetence and political malpractice, this administration continues to act in foreign policy — not tweet obnoxiously, not rage behind the scenes, but act — as though it’s following a serious grand strategy, one sufficiently coherent and plausible and forward-looking that future presidents might reasonably imitate it. This Trump doctrine, in practice, isn’t the isolationism that he sometimes promised on the campaign trail; nor is it the flailing bellicosity that many of his critics feared. It’s a doctrine of disentanglement, retrenchment and realignment, in which the United States tries to abandon its most idealistic hopes and unrealistic military commitments, narrow its list of potential enemies and consolidate its attempts at influence. The overarching goal isn’t to cede United States primacy or abandon American alliances, as Trump’s opponents often charge; rather, it’s to maintain American primacy on a more manageable footing, while focusing more energy and effort on containing the power and influence of China. Consider the two administration efforts in the news this week. The first is the White House’s decision to support the opposition leader in Venezuela and build a coalition to undermine the dictatorial Maduro government. The second is the advancing effort to negotiate a deal with the Taliban that would end America’s 17-years-and-counting military commitment in Afghanistan. If a deal is struck and our forces actually withdraw, Trump’s personal skepticism of the Afghanistan intervention will have helped produce an outcome that large parts of our foreign policy establishment long resisted — an endgame that accepts the possibility of true defeat, a full Taliban takeover, as the price of reducing American commitments and bringing American troops home. At the same, the Venezuelan effort is striking in its establishment-foreign-policy normalcy. Trying to undermine a left-wing Latin American dictator while talking in flowery language about human rights is the kind of policy you might have expected from a President Marco Rubio (who is, indeed, a prime mover behind the policy), and as Uri Friedman of The Atlantic wrote, the strategy has been advanced in a very un-Trump-y way: With “a well-oiled diplomatic campaign, closely coordinated with allies and rigorously on message.” There’s even a Reagan and George W. Bush hand, Elliott Abrams, on hand to help run the administration’s policy. To Friedman, this normalcy is strange and dissonant and hypocritical. “Here was a president who preaches America First, who rarely invokes democracy and human rights in his unscripted remarks, who has voiced admiration for dictators such as Vladimir Putin and Kim Jong Un, sticking his neck out to restore democracy in a country that doesn’t usually figure among the top challenges to U.S. interests.” But in fact the administration’s different approaches can be harmonized. No American president before the end of the Cold War would have found it strange or dissonant to take an interventionist and self-righteous line where Latin America was concerned, while accepting deals with bad actors and wooing autocrats in more far-flung and global theaters. There is a rhetorical tension, obviously, involved in defending human rights in Venezuela while you ponder a treaty with the Taliban and seek an accommodation with Kim Jong-un or Bashar al-Assad — and Trump is not exactly the master of rhetorical finesse. But from the Monroe Doctrine onward the United States has traditionally treated our hemispheric neighbors differently than Eurasian powers — for the very sound strategic reason that they are close to us and countries like Syria and Afghanistan are not. This reasoning was abandoned by post-Cold War presidents, and especially by George W. Bush, in the heady days when it appeared that America could project power as easily in Kabul as in the Caribbean. And despite the Iraq disaster most of Bush’s would-be Republican heirs — John McCain and Mitt Romney as well as Rubio and Jeb! — maintained a similarly maximalist posture, in which every theater was supposedly a vital one, every tyrant a potential enemy, and we should be prepared to fight in Afghanistan and Syria and Libya and eastern Ukraine as readily as we would fight for a NATO ally. Compared with that vision, the Trump doctrine aims for a more limited and sustainable view of American commitments. Along with jihadism it seeks to confront and contain two major state-based enemies, China and Iran, and it takes a harsh line toward their potential allies and clients in the Americas. But it has no nation-building ambitions in the Muslim world, no dreams of pushing NATO into the Caucasus, and in East Asia it’s trying to woo the Kim regime into some kind of bizarre friendship instead of acting like Pyongyang is just as great a long-term danger as its patron in Beijing. The administration’s official European goals (if not Trump’s behind-the-scenes anti-NATO grumbling) also fit plausibly into its larger framework: Building up a stronger military presence on NATO’s Russia-facing flank while getting other countries to bear more of the military burden is the most plausible way to preserve the Western alliance’s basic purposes while the United States refocuses on China. And in the long run, Trump’s dream (whatever its motivations) of a better working relationship with Russia also fits with a retrench-and-refocus framework — with the major caveat that Putin seems too interested in disruption to make a genuine and cooperative détente imaginable for now. Let me stress that I don’t think that Trump’s grand strategy is springing fully formed from the president’s own mind (he isn’t scribbling notes about the Monroe Doctrine, I assume), or for that matter anyone else’s; instead it’s emerging organically as a synthesis of his own blustering, quasi-isolationist impulses and the more hawkish and internationalist and status-quo-oriented views of the people working for him. That makes it interesting for future international-relations scholars to study — but also vulnerable to sudden changes of personnel or presidential mood. (If we unleash a ground war in Venezuela tomorrow in a fit of Trumpian pique, you can disregard this column’s analysis.) And of course it has other vulnerabilities as well. Events often destroy even well-thought-through grand strategies, and every foreign-policy maneuver carries risks. The hawks who fear that jihadism will surge if we pull back from Afghanistan and Syria could be vindicated. So could the institutionalists who fear that Trump’s bluster is damaging our standing and disillusioning our friends, and the human rights activists who regard this administration’s cynicism as a carte blanche for thugs and dictators, and the simple Trump-fearers (like myself) who worry that he could make a truly catastrophic blunder should, say, the North Korea negotiations blow up or a real crisis with Russia or China comes along. But those of us who fear Trump also need to be honest when he exceeds our expectations. Before his election, I wanted a Republican foreign policy that was less hubristic and more calculating than what most leading G.O.P. politicians were offering, that showed a willingness to limit foreign interventions and conduct diplomatic experiments while also trying to maintain United States primacy in a more multipolar, Chinese-influenced world. Within certain limits, and with a lot of stumbling and bluster, that’s roughly what Trump has delivered. And however his foreign policy looks by November 2020, I suspect that future administrations of both parties will often find themselves imitating the strategy of his first two years.  Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTOpinion) and Instagram, join the Facebook political discussion group, Voting While Female. Ross Douthat has been an Opinion columnist for The Times since 2009. He is the author of several books, most recently, “To Change the Church: Pope Francis and the Future of Catholicism.”
You can follow him on Twitter:  @DouthatNYT  You can follow him on Twitter:  @DouthatNYT Supported by By Alan Rappeport WASHINGTON — Two years ago, some of America’s largest corporations were tearing up their business plans to accommodate President Trump, fearful that he could send their shareholders and customers fleeing with a tweet. Now they have a new strategy: Ignore him. This week, General Motors became the latest recipient of a barrage of tweets from Mr. Trump, who is angry about the company’s closing of a plant in Lordstown, Ohio. The president told the company to reopen the plant or sell it “fast” to someone who would. He suggested that G.M. shutter a factory in China or Mexico instead. “What’s going on with General Motors?” Mr. Trump said on Wednesday during a speech at a tank factory in Lima, Ohio. “Get that plant opened or sell it to somebody and they’ll open it.” G.M. has not budged. After Mr. Trump’s tweets over the weekend, the company issued a terse statement noting that it was relocating workers and that it would be discussing plant closings with the United Auto Workers union. It made no mention of the demands of Mr. Trump. In the past, G.M. has blamed the president’s trade war, including tariffs on steel and aluminum, for raising the company’s costs. “Companies are balancing political pressure against their own return requirements,” said Philippe Houchois, an automobile sector analyst at Jefferies. “I don’t think they are being swayed.” When Mr. Trump was running for president, he promised to personally stop American companies from shutting down factories and moving plants abroad, warning that he would punish them with public backlash and higher taxes. Many companies scrambled to respond to his Twitter attacks, announcing jobs and investments in the United States — several of which never materialized. But despite Mr. Trump’s efforts to compel companies to build and hire, they appear to be increasingly prioritizing their balance sheets over political backlash. “I don’t think there’s as much fear,” said Gene Grabowski, who specializes in crisis communications for the public relations firm Kglobal. “At first it was a shock to the system, but now we’ve all adjusted. We take it in stride, and I think that’s what the business community is doing.” Early on, Mr. Trump’s ability to direct outrage at companies appeared to work. Before Mr. Trump even took office, Carrier agreed to keep 1,000 jobs in Indiana that it had been planning to move to Mexico. In 2017, Ford canceled plans to build a new factory in Mexico and increased its investment in a self-driving car plant in Michigan. Last year, Pfizer delayed drug price increases at Mr. Trump’s request after he threatened, vaguely, to take action against the industry’s pricing policies. More recently that influence has waned. The president’s scattershot attention span has diminished his power to persuade the business world to bend to his will, corporate communications experts say, as once fearsome tweet storms have devolved into ephemeral annoyances. At the start of the Trump administration, big companies hired firms like Mr. Grabowski’s to develop response strategies in the event they were targeted by Mr. Trump. His team would scour social media to understand the trajectory of Mr. Trump’s tweets and how much damage they could do to a brand. Ultimately the public relations problems usually proved to be short lived. “In the beginning, his tweets would actually hurt stock prices and companies were going into tailspins,” said Eric Dezenhall, a Washington-based expert in corporate damage control. “There is a clinical difference between what was happening in the beginning and what is happening now.” He added: “What’s happening now is there is tantrum congestion.” That congestion has been on display this week, as Mr. Trump assailed Facebook, Google, Twitter and “Saturday Night Live,” saying they are biased against Republicans. Those outbursts on Twitter were interspersed with attacks on political opponents, the Russia investigation and Senator John McCain, who died last year. While a tweet from Mr. Trump used to sink a company’s stock price, analysts say that these days a missive from the president’s Twitter feed merely injects a bit of noise into the market. Musings from Mr. Trump about the prospect of a trade deal with China or the Federal Reserve continue to rattle investors. Responding with restraint has been something of a reorientation for the public relations industry. The traditional playbook often entails responding directly, quickly and forcefully to bad publicity. However, when it comes to Mr. Trump, experts say an understated response that does not further agitate the president tends to be more effective. Mr. Trump’s power over companies started to show signs of slipping last year. After Harley-Davidson announced plans to move some of its production overseas in response to Mr. Trump’s trade war, the president repeatedly blasted the company as disloyal and urged his supporters — many of whom ride motorcycles — to consider a boycott. Harley-Davidson executives acknowledged the president’s disappointment, but pressed ahead with their plans. Another frequent target, Amazon and its chief executive, Jeff Bezos, has largely met his criticism with silence. In 2018, the president accused Amazon of pulling a “scam” on the United States Postal Service and convened a task force to come up with ways to overhaul the Postal Service business model that would allow it to charge higher rates. The task force’s report, which was released nearly eight months after the complaints, found that commercial package delivery for Amazon and other e-commerce retailers was actually profitable for the Postal Service and was not costing the United States “massive amounts of money,” as Mr. Trump had suggested in his tweets. Since then, the president has focused his attention on Mr. Bezos’ marital problems. In other cases, delay has been the path of least resistance. Pfizer agreed last summer to put off planned price increases after its chief executive, Ian Read, had an “extensive” call with Mr. Trump, who had said on Twitter that drug companies are taking advantage of the poor. In January, however, Pfizer moved forward with price increases on 41 drugs. Mr. Trump lamented on Twitter that month that drug companies were not living up to their commitments on pricing, but has not taken any action against the industry. Mr. Trump’s deal with Carrier has also been a bit less than advertised. While United Technologies, its parent company, agreed to maintain its Indianapolis factory in 2016, it still cut more than 500 manufacturing jobs in 2017 and 2018. Many of those were shifted to Mexico. So far, Mr. Trump has been mum. And Ford won plaudits from Mr. Trump for investing in Michigan, but after the spotlight moved on, it had second thoughts about abandoning its Mexico investment. Instead of canceling plans to set up shop south of the border, the company said that it would assemble electric cars there, in addition to its Michigan investment. For some companies, living up to the promises made to Mr. Trump has gotten complicated. Foxconn, the Taiwanese consumer electronics giant, won praise from the president when it announced that it would build a $10 billion television screen production plant in Wisconsin. In January, Foxconn appeared to hedge on that commitment, suggesting that it was too expensive to build the screens in the United States and that the plant would be less focused on manufacturing than it had initially suggested. After Mr. Trump had a conversation with the chairman of Foxconn last month, the company said that it was moving forward with its plans for the factory, but that only a quarter of the 13,000 people it planned to staff it would be focused on manufacturing. Despite Mr. Trump’s vast media presence and his popularity among Republicans, he has not demonstrated the ability to do lasting damage to a corporate brand that crosses him. Mr. Houchois, the Jefferies analyst, said he was not surprised that G.M. was sticking to its plan despite Mr. Trump’s displeasure. Broader economic forces, such as lower gas prices and falling demand for small cars, compelled the company to abandon the Lordstown plant. And Mr. Trump’s metals tariffs, combined with the possibility of more levies on automobiles, have been a drag on the industry and made car companies less inclined to do the president any favors. “The administration, to some extent, has made their life more difficult,” Mr. Houchois said. “They felt wronged by some decisions, on tariffs for example, so they are less likely to bow to pressure if they don’t think there is a business case.”  

Supported by By Alan Rappeport WASHINGTON — Two years ago, some of America’s largest corporations were tearing up their business plans to accommodate President Trump, fearful that he could send their shareholders and customers fleeing with a tweet. Now they have a new strategy: Ignore him. This week, General Motors became the latest recipient of a barrage of tweets from Mr. Trump, who is angry about the company’s closing of a plant in Lordstown, Ohio. The president told the company to reopen the plant or sell it “fast” to someone who would. He suggested that G.M. shutter a factory in China or Mexico instead. “What’s going on with General Motors?” Mr. Trump said on Wednesday during a speech at a tank factory in Lima, Ohio. “Get that plant opened or sell it to somebody and they’ll open it.” G.M. has not budged. After Mr. Trump’s tweets over the weekend, the company issued a terse statement noting that it was relocating workers and that it would be discussing plant closings with the United Auto Workers union. It made no mention of the demands of Mr. Trump. In the past, G.M. has blamed the president’s trade war, including tariffs on steel and aluminum, for raising the company’s costs. “Companies are balancing political pressure against their own return requirements,” said Philippe Houchois, an automobile sector analyst at Jefferies. “I don’t think they are being swayed.” When Mr. Trump was running for president, he promised to personally stop American companies from shutting down factories and moving plants abroad, warning that he would punish them with public backlash and higher taxes. Many companies scrambled to respond to his Twitter attacks, announcing jobs and investments in the United States — several of which never materialized. But despite Mr. Trump’s efforts to compel companies to build and hire, they appear to be increasingly prioritizing their balance sheets over political backlash. “I don’t think there’s as much fear,” said Gene Grabowski, who specializes in crisis communications for the public relations firm Kglobal. “At first it was a shock to the system, but now we’ve all adjusted. We take it in stride, and I think that’s what the business community is doing.” Early on, Mr. Trump’s ability to direct outrage at companies appeared to work. Before Mr. Trump even took office, Carrier agreed to keep 1,000 jobs in Indiana that it had been planning to move to Mexico. In 2017, Ford canceled plans to build a new factory in Mexico and increased its investment in a self-driving car plant in Michigan. Last year, Pfizer delayed drug price increases at Mr. Trump’s request after he threatened, vaguely, to take action against the industry’s pricing policies. More recently that influence has waned. The president’s scattershot attention span has diminished his power to persuade the business world to bend to his will, corporate communications experts say, as once fearsome tweet storms have devolved into ephemeral annoyances. At the start of the Trump administration, big companies hired firms like Mr. Grabowski’s to develop response strategies in the event they were targeted by Mr. Trump. His team would scour social media to understand the trajectory of Mr. Trump’s tweets and how much damage they could do to a brand. Ultimately the public relations problems usually proved to be short lived. “In the beginning, his tweets would actually hurt stock prices and companies were going into tailspins,” said Eric Dezenhall, a Washington-based expert in corporate damage control. “There is a clinical difference between what was happening in the beginning and what is happening now.” He added: “What’s happening now is there is tantrum congestion.” That congestion has been on display this week, as Mr. Trump assailed Facebook, Google, Twitter and “Saturday Night Live,” saying they are biased against Republicans. Those outbursts on Twitter were interspersed with attacks on political opponents, the Russia investigation and Senator John McCain, who died last year. While a tweet from Mr. Trump used to sink a company’s stock price, analysts say that these days a missive from the president’s Twitter feed merely injects a bit of noise into the market. Musings from Mr. Trump about the prospect of a trade deal with China or the Federal Reserve continue to rattle investors. Responding with restraint has been something of a reorientation for the public relations industry. The traditional playbook often entails responding directly, quickly and forcefully to bad publicity. However, when it comes to Mr. Trump, experts say an understated response that does not further agitate the president tends to be more effective. Mr. Trump’s power over companies started to show signs of slipping last year. After Harley-Davidson announced plans to move some of its production overseas in response to Mr. Trump’s trade war, the president repeatedly blasted the company as disloyal and urged his supporters — many of whom ride motorcycles — to consider a boycott. Harley-Davidson executives acknowledged the president’s disappointment, but pressed ahead with their plans. Another frequent target, Amazon and its chief executive, Jeff Bezos, has largely met his criticism with silence. In 2018, the president accused Amazon of pulling a “scam” on the United States Postal Service and convened a task force to come up with ways to overhaul the Postal Service business model that would allow it to charge higher rates. The task force’s report, which was released nearly eight months after the complaints, found that commercial package delivery for Amazon and other e-commerce retailers was actually profitable for the Postal Service and was not costing the United States “massive amounts of money,” as Mr. Trump had suggested in his tweets. Since then, the president has focused his attention on Mr. Bezos’ marital problems. In other cases, delay has been the path of least resistance. Pfizer agreed last summer to put off planned price increases after its chief executive, Ian Read, had an “extensive” call with Mr. Trump, who had said on Twitter that drug companies are taking advantage of the poor. In January, however, Pfizer moved forward with price increases on 41 drugs. Mr. Trump lamented on Twitter that month that drug companies were not living up to their commitments on pricing, but has not taken any action against the industry. Mr. Trump’s deal with Carrier has also been a bit less than advertised. While United Technologies, its parent company, agreed to maintain its Indianapolis factory in 2016, it still cut more than 500 manufacturing jobs in 2017 and 2018. Many of those were shifted to Mexico. So far, Mr. Trump has been mum. And Ford won plaudits from Mr. Trump for investing in Michigan, but after the spotlight moved on, it had second thoughts about abandoning its Mexico investment. Instead of canceling plans to set up shop south of the border, the company said that it would assemble electric cars there, in addition to its Michigan investment. For some companies, living up to the promises made to Mr. Trump has gotten complicated. Foxconn, the Taiwanese consumer electronics giant, won praise from the president when it announced that it would build a $10 billion television screen production plant in Wisconsin. In January, Foxconn appeared to hedge on that commitment, suggesting that it was too expensive to build the screens in the United States and that the plant would be less focused on manufacturing than it had initially suggested. After Mr. Trump had a conversation with the chairman of Foxconn last month, the company said that it was moving forward with its plans for the factory, but that only a quarter of the 13,000 people it planned to staff it would be focused on manufacturing. Despite Mr. Trump’s vast media presence and his popularity among Republicans, he has not demonstrated the ability to do lasting damage to a corporate brand that crosses him. Mr. Houchois, the Jefferies analyst, said he was not surprised that G.M. was sticking to its plan despite Mr. Trump’s displeasure. Broader economic forces, such as lower gas prices and falling demand for small cars, compelled the company to abandon the Lordstown plant. And Mr. Trump’s metals tariffs, combined with the possibility of more levies on automobiles, have been a drag on the industry and made car companies less inclined to do the president any favors. “The administration, to some extent, has made their life more difficult,” Mr. Houchois said. “They felt wronged by some decisions, on tariffs for example, so they are less likely to bow to pressure if they don’t think there is a business case.”  Supported by By Alan Rappeport WASHINGTON — Two years ago, some of America’s largest corporations were tearing up their business plans to accommodate President Trump, fearful that he could send their shareholders and customers fleeing with a tweet. Now they have a new strategy: Ignore him. This week, General Motors became the latest recipient of a barrage of tweets from Mr. Trump, who is angry about the company’s closing of a plant in Lordstown, Ohio. The president told the company to reopen the plant or sell it “fast” to someone who would. He suggested that G.M. shutter a factory in China or Mexico instead. “What’s going on with General Motors?” Mr. Trump said on Wednesday during a speech at a tank factory in Lima, Ohio. “Get that plant opened or sell it to somebody and they’ll open it.” G.M. has not budged. After Mr. Trump’s tweets over the weekend, the company issued a terse statement noting that it was relocating workers and that it would be discussing plant closings with the United Auto Workers union. It made no mention of the demands of Mr. Trump. In the past, G.M. has blamed the president’s trade war, including tariffs on steel and aluminum, for raising the company’s costs. “Companies are balancing political pressure against their own return requirements,” said Philippe Houchois, an automobile sector analyst at Jefferies. “I don’t think they are being swayed.” When Mr. Trump was running for president, he promised to personally stop American companies from shutting down factories and moving plants abroad, warning that he would punish them with public backlash and higher taxes. Many companies scrambled to respond to his Twitter attacks, announcing jobs and investments in the United States — several of which never materialized. But despite Mr. Trump’s efforts to compel companies to build and hire, they appear to be increasingly prioritizing their balance sheets over political backlash. “I don’t think there’s as much fear,” said Gene Grabowski, who specializes in crisis communications for the public relations firm Kglobal. “At first it was a shock to the system, but now we’ve all adjusted. We take it in stride, and I think that’s what the business community is doing.” Early on, Mr. Trump’s ability to direct outrage at companies appeared to work. Before Mr. Trump even took office, Carrier agreed to keep 1,000 jobs in Indiana that it had been planning to move to Mexico. In 2017, Ford canceled plans to build a new factory in Mexico and increased its investment in a self-driving car plant in Michigan. Last year, Pfizer delayed drug price increases at Mr. Trump’s request after he threatened, vaguely, to take action against the industry’s pricing policies. More recently that influence has waned. The president’s scattershot attention span has diminished his power to persuade the business world to bend to his will, corporate communications experts say, as once fearsome tweet storms have devolved into ephemeral annoyances. At the start of the Trump administration, big companies hired firms like Mr. Grabowski’s to develop response strategies in the event they were targeted by Mr. Trump. His team would scour social media to understand the trajectory of Mr. Trump’s tweets and how much damage they could do to a brand. Ultimately the public relations problems usually proved to be short lived. “In the beginning, his tweets would actually hurt stock prices and companies were going into tailspins,” said Eric Dezenhall, a Washington-based expert in corporate damage control. “There is a clinical difference between what was happening in the beginning and what is happening now.” He added: “What’s happening now is there is tantrum congestion.” That congestion has been on display this week, as Mr. Trump assailed Facebook, Google, Twitter and “Saturday Night Live,” saying they are biased against Republicans. Those outbursts on Twitter were interspersed with attacks on political opponents, the Russia investigation and Senator John McCain, who died last year. While a tweet from Mr. Trump used to sink a company’s stock price, analysts say that these days a missive from the president’s Twitter feed merely injects a bit of noise into the market. Musings from Mr. Trump about the prospect of a trade deal with China or the Federal Reserve continue to rattle investors. Responding with restraint has been something of a reorientation for the public relations industry. The traditional playbook often entails responding directly, quickly and forcefully to bad publicity. However, when it comes to Mr. Trump, experts say an understated response that does not further agitate the president tends to be more effective. Mr. Trump’s power over companies started to show signs of slipping last year. After Harley-Davidson announced plans to move some of its production overseas in response to Mr. Trump’s trade war, the president repeatedly blasted the company as disloyal and urged his supporters — many of whom ride motorcycles — to consider a boycott. Harley-Davidson executives acknowledged the president’s disappointment, but pressed ahead with their plans. Another frequent target, Amazon and its chief executive, Jeff Bezos, has largely met his criticism with silence. In 2018, the president accused Amazon of pulling a “scam” on the United States Postal Service and convened a task force to come up with ways to overhaul the Postal Service business model that would allow it to charge higher rates. The task force’s report, which was released nearly eight months after the complaints, found that commercial package delivery for Amazon and other e-commerce retailers was actually profitable for the Postal Service and was not costing the United States “massive amounts of money,” as Mr. Trump had suggested in his tweets. Since then, the president has focused his attention on Mr. Bezos’ marital problems. In other cases, delay has been the path of least resistance. Pfizer agreed last summer to put off planned price increases after its chief executive, Ian Read, had an “extensive” call with Mr. Trump, who had said on Twitter that drug companies are taking advantage of the poor. In January, however, Pfizer moved forward with price increases on 41 drugs. Mr. Trump lamented on Twitter that month that drug companies were not living up to their commitments on pricing, but has not taken any action against the industry. Mr. Trump’s deal with Carrier has also been a bit less than advertised. While United Technologies, its parent company, agreed to maintain its Indianapolis factory in 2016, it still cut more than 500 manufacturing jobs in 2017 and 2018. Many of those were shifted to Mexico. So far, Mr. Trump has been mum. And Ford won plaudits from Mr. Trump for investing in Michigan, but after the spotlight moved on, it had second thoughts about abandoning its Mexico investment. Instead of canceling plans to set up shop south of the border, the company said that it would assemble electric cars there, in addition to its Michigan investment. For some companies, living up to the promises made to Mr. Trump has gotten complicated. Foxconn, the Taiwanese consumer electronics giant, won praise from the president when it announced that it would build a $10 billion television screen production plant in Wisconsin. In January, Foxconn appeared to hedge on that commitment, suggesting that it was too expensive to build the screens in the United States and that the plant would be less focused on manufacturing than it had initially suggested. After Mr. Trump had a conversation with the chairman of Foxconn last month, the company said that it was moving forward with its plans for the factory, but that only a quarter of the 13,000 people it planned to staff it would be focused on manufacturing. Despite Mr. Trump’s vast media presence and his popularity among Republicans, he has not demonstrated the ability to do lasting damage to a corporate brand that crosses him. Mr. Houchois, the Jefferies analyst, said he was not surprised that G.M. was sticking to its plan despite Mr. Trump’s displeasure. Broader economic forces, such as lower gas prices and falling demand for small cars, compelled the company to abandon the Lordstown plant. And Mr. Trump’s metals tariffs, combined with the possibility of more levies on automobiles, have been a drag on the industry and made car companies less inclined to do the president any favors. “The administration, to some extent, has made their life more difficult,” Mr. Houchois said. “They felt wronged by some decisions, on tariffs for example, so they are less likely to bow to pressure if they don’t think there is a business case.”  

Supported by By Alan Rappeport WASHINGTON — Two years ago, some of America’s largest corporations were tearing up their business plans to accommodate President Trump, fearful that he could send their shareholders and customers fleeing with a tweet. Now they have a new strategy: Ignore him. This week, General Motors became the latest recipient of a barrage of tweets from Mr. Trump, who is angry about the company’s closing of a plant in Lordstown, Ohio. The president told the company to reopen the plant or sell it “fast” to someone who would. He suggested that G.M. shutter a factory in China or Mexico instead. “What’s going on with General Motors?” Mr. Trump said on Wednesday during a speech at a tank factory in Lima, Ohio. “Get that plant opened or sell it to somebody and they’ll open it.” G.M. has not budged. After Mr. Trump’s tweets over the weekend, the company issued a terse statement noting that it was relocating workers and that it would be discussing plant closings with the United Auto Workers union. It made no mention of the demands of Mr. Trump. In the past, G.M. has blamed the president’s trade war, including tariffs on steel and aluminum, for raising the company’s costs. “Companies are balancing political pressure against their own return requirements,” said Philippe Houchois, an automobile sector analyst at Jefferies. “I don’t think they are being swayed.” When Mr. Trump was running for president, he promised to personally stop American companies from shutting down factories and moving plants abroad, warning that he would punish them with public backlash and higher taxes. Many companies scrambled to respond to his Twitter attacks, announcing jobs and investments in the United States — several of which never materialized. But despite Mr. Trump’s efforts to compel companies to build and hire, they appear to be increasingly prioritizing their balance sheets over political backlash. “I don’t think there’s as much fear,” said Gene Grabowski, who specializes in crisis communications for the public relations firm Kglobal. “At first it was a shock to the system, but now we’ve all adjusted. We take it in stride, and I think that’s what the business community is doing.” Early on, Mr. Trump’s ability to direct outrage at companies appeared to work. Before Mr. Trump even took office, Carrier agreed to keep 1,000 jobs in Indiana that it had been planning to move to Mexico. In 2017, Ford canceled plans to build a new factory in Mexico and increased its investment in a self-driving car plant in Michigan. Last year, Pfizer delayed drug price increases at Mr. Trump’s request after he threatened, vaguely, to take action against the industry’s pricing policies. More recently that influence has waned. The president’s scattershot attention span has diminished his power to persuade the business world to bend to his will, corporate communications experts say, as once fearsome tweet storms have devolved into ephemeral annoyances. At the start of the Trump administration, big companies hired firms like Mr. Grabowski’s to develop response strategies in the event they were targeted by Mr. Trump. His team would scour social media to understand the trajectory of Mr. Trump’s tweets and how much damage they could do to a brand. Ultimately the public relations problems usually proved to be short lived. “In the beginning, his tweets would actually hurt stock prices and companies were going into tailspins,” said Eric Dezenhall, a Washington-based expert in corporate damage control. “There is a clinical difference between what was happening in the beginning and what is happening now.” He added: “What’s happening now is there is tantrum congestion.” That congestion has been on display this week, as Mr. Trump assailed Facebook, Google, Twitter and “Saturday Night Live,” saying they are biased against Republicans. Those outbursts on Twitter were interspersed with attacks on political opponents, the Russia investigation and Senator John McCain, who died last year. While a tweet from Mr. Trump used to sink a company’s stock price, analysts say that these days a missive from the president’s Twitter feed merely injects a bit of noise into the market. Musings from Mr. Trump about the prospect of a trade deal with China or the Federal Reserve continue to rattle investors. Responding with restraint has been something of a reorientation for the public relations industry. The traditional playbook often entails responding directly, quickly and forcefully to bad publicity. However, when it comes to Mr. Trump, experts say an understated response that does not further agitate the president tends to be more effective. Mr. Trump’s power over companies started to show signs of slipping last year. After Harley-Davidson announced plans to move some of its production overseas in response to Mr. Trump’s trade war, the president repeatedly blasted the company as disloyal and urged his supporters — many of whom ride motorcycles — to consider a boycott. Harley-Davidson executives acknowledged the president’s disappointment, but pressed ahead with their plans. Another frequent target, Amazon and its chief executive, Jeff Bezos, has largely met his criticism with silence. In 2018, the president accused Amazon of pulling a “scam” on the United States Postal Service and convened a task force to come up with ways to overhaul the Postal Service business model that would allow it to charge higher rates. The task force’s report, which was released nearly eight months after the complaints, found that commercial package delivery for Amazon and other e-commerce retailers was actually profitable for the Postal Service and was not costing the United States “massive amounts of money,” as Mr. Trump had suggested in his tweets. Since then, the president has focused his attention on Mr. Bezos’ marital problems. In other cases, delay has been the path of least resistance. Pfizer agreed last summer to put off planned price increases after its chief executive, Ian Read, had an “extensive” call with Mr. Trump, who had said on Twitter that drug companies are taking advantage of the poor. In January, however, Pfizer moved forward with price increases on 41 drugs. Mr. Trump lamented on Twitter that month that drug companies were not living up to their commitments on pricing, but has not taken any action against the industry. Mr. Trump’s deal with Carrier has also been a bit less than advertised. While United Technologies, its parent company, agreed to maintain its Indianapolis factory in 2016, it still cut more than 500 manufacturing jobs in 2017 and 2018. Many of those were shifted to Mexico. So far, Mr. Trump has been mum. And Ford won plaudits from Mr. Trump for investing in Michigan, but after the spotlight moved on, it had second thoughts about abandoning its Mexico investment. Instead of canceling plans to set up shop south of the border, the company said that it would assemble electric cars there, in addition to its Michigan investment. For some companies, living up to the promises made to Mr. Trump has gotten complicated. Foxconn, the Taiwanese consumer electronics giant, won praise from the president when it announced that it would build a $10 billion television screen production plant in Wisconsin. In January, Foxconn appeared to hedge on that commitment, suggesting that it was too expensive to build the screens in the United States and that the plant would be less focused on manufacturing than it had initially suggested. After Mr. Trump had a conversation with the chairman of Foxconn last month, the company said that it was moving forward with its plans for the factory, but that only a quarter of the 13,000 people it planned to staff it would be focused on manufacturing. Despite Mr. Trump’s vast media presence and his popularity among Republicans, he has not demonstrated the ability to do lasting damage to a corporate brand that crosses him. Mr. Houchois, the Jefferies analyst, said he was not surprised that G.M. was sticking to its plan despite Mr. Trump’s displeasure. Broader economic forces, such as lower gas prices and falling demand for small cars, compelled the company to abandon the Lordstown plant. And Mr. Trump’s metals tariffs, combined with the possibility of more levies on automobiles, have been a drag on the industry and made car companies less inclined to do the president any favors. “The administration, to some extent, has made their life more difficult,” Mr. Houchois said. “They felt wronged by some decisions, on tariffs for example, so they are less likely to bow to pressure if they don’t think there is a business case.”  Supported by The United States can make progress toward reducing the North Korean nuclear threat if Mr. Trump is disciplined in his diplomacy. By Susan E. Rice Ms. Rice, a contributing opinion writer, was the national security adviser from 2013 to 2017. On the eve of his departure for his second summit with the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, President Trump said: “I don’t want to rush anybody. I just don’t want testing. As long as there is no testing, we’re happy.” Last April, Mr. Kim announced a halt to testing nuclear weapons and missiles, a positive but reversible step. Still, with an arsenal estimated to contain dozens of nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles that can reach the continental United States, the North Korean threat remains as urgent and serious as ever. Remarkably, President Trump has declared himself content with a nuclear armed North Korea. Not only is this a dangerous reversal of decades of American policy, which has long sought the “complete, verifiable, irreversible denuclearization” of the Korean Peninsula, it amounts to acceptance of North Korea as a nuclear state. For Mr. Trump, diplomacy with North Korea has always been about theater and politics. In falsely declaring after his first summit with Mr. Kim that “there is no longer a nuclear threat from North Korea,” while bragging that the risk of war — which he foolishly stoked — is now diminished, the president is intent on creating the illusion of progress. In fact, there has been none toward our core goal of full denuclearization.  Mr. Trump instead touts his love of Mr. Kim at campaign rallies and generates Nobel Peace Prize nominations for himself with the aim of convincing his political base that he is a diplomatic genius. If he can punt the complex North Korean nuclear threat to the end of his presidency without being disturbed by new tests, Mr. Trump would seem content to claim victory and leave the problem to his successors. Thus, the risk of the Hanoi summit is twofold. First, in a rush to generate good optics and distract from unpleasant developments at home, Mr. Trump may make further concessions to the North Korean dictator, like a peace declaration, partial sanctions relief, or continued limitations on United States military exercises or troop presence without receiving tangible, irreversible concessions in return. Second, Mr. Trump risks squandering an opportunity to make real headway toward denuclearization. The United States intelligence community continues to assess that North Korea will not dismantle all of its nuclear weapons and delivery systems, because Mr. Kim sees them as vital to his regime’s survival. Still, it would be wise to test the limits of diplomacy and the possibility that American experts are wrong. Dialogue, backed by sanctions and concerted international pressure, represent the only rational path for defusing the North Korean nuclear threat. The alternative, a devastating conflagration that could escalate into nuclear war, should be unthinkable. Fortunately, the Trump administration’s new envoy for North Korea, Stephen Biegun, understands the risks and the opportunities. He is engaged in a serious effort to try both to eradicate North Korea’s nuclear and missile programs and address the issues impeding normalization of relations. If Mr. Trump truly empowers Mr. Biegun and refrains from granting premature concessions or acquiescing in the unacceptable status quo, there is potential for meaningful dialogue in Hanoi — unlike the hyped, hollow pledges that characterized the Singapore summit. To move the needle, the United States and North Korea will need to agree on a series of incremental, reciprocal steps that would build mutual confidence as part of a road map to full denuclearization. Such steps could combine verifiable constraints on North Korea’s nuclear and missile programs with limited sanctions relief and movement toward achieving a final peace agreement. Reasonable constraints would include opening up declared North Korean facilities to international inspectors, halting further production of fissile material and ballistic missiles, codifying Mr. Kim’s announced testing freezes and nonproliferation pledge and obtaining firm commitments from North Korea to declare the totality of its nuclear and missile infrastructure. The model for this approach, anathema as it is to Mr. Trump, is the Iran nuclear negotiations. First, the Obama administration reached an interim agreement with Iran to freeze its nuclear development and roll back aspects of its program in exchange for limited and reversible sanctions relief. This Joint Plan of Action created the conditions for extended negotiations to achieve — over a year and a half later — a final, verifiable deal to denuclearize Iran. This plan was affirmed by Congress and enshrined in international law. Iran was fully adhering to its obligations when the Trump administration unilaterally withdrew last year. To maximize the prospects for success, as in the Iran negotiations, the United States needs China, Russia, Japan and South Korea to join in overseeing implementation of any interim deal. They must also tighten enforcement of existing sanctions and agree to synchronize any deliberate easing of pressure in exchange for concrete, verifiable steps from North Korea. Unfortunately, our international partners are pursuing their separate interests, diminishing American leverage. Though the Trump administration reflexively scorns multilateral efforts, North Korea is yet another case where going it alone won’t suffice. In Hanoi, Mr. Trump has an opportunity to achieve incremental progress toward denuclearization. Unfortunately, history suggests that Mr. Trump will be content with another colorful photo opportunity and more diplomatic shadow boxing that perpetuates the illusion of success, while running down the clock on a nearly intractable challenge. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Susan E. Rice, the national security adviser from 2013 to 2017 and a former United States ambassador to the United Nations, is a contributing opinion writer.  @AmbassadorRice 

Supported by The United States can make progress toward reducing the North Korean nuclear threat if Mr. Trump is disciplined in his diplomacy. By Susan E. Rice Ms. Rice, a contributing opinion writer, was the national security adviser from 2013 to 2017. On the eve of his departure for his second summit with the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, President Trump said: “I don’t want to rush anybody. I just don’t want testing. As long as there is no testing, we’re happy.” Last April, Mr. Kim announced a halt to testing nuclear weapons and missiles, a positive but reversible step. Still, with an arsenal estimated to contain dozens of nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles that can reach the continental United States, the North Korean threat remains as urgent and serious as ever. Remarkably, President Trump has declared himself content with a nuclear armed North Korea. Not only is this a dangerous reversal of decades of American policy, which has long sought the “complete, verifiable, irreversible denuclearization” of the Korean Peninsula, it amounts to acceptance of North Korea as a nuclear state. For Mr. Trump, diplomacy with North Korea has always been about theater and politics. In falsely declaring after his first summit with Mr. Kim that “there is no longer a nuclear threat from North Korea,” while bragging that the risk of war — which he foolishly stoked — is now diminished, the president is intent on creating the illusion of progress. In fact, there has been none toward our core goal of full denuclearization.  Mr. Trump instead touts his love of Mr. Kim at campaign rallies and generates Nobel Peace Prize nominations for himself with the aim of convincing his political base that he is a diplomatic genius. If he can punt the complex North Korean nuclear threat to the end of his presidency without being disturbed by new tests, Mr. Trump would seem content to claim victory and leave the problem to his successors. Thus, the risk of the Hanoi summit is twofold. First, in a rush to generate good optics and distract from unpleasant developments at home, Mr. Trump may make further concessions to the North Korean dictator, like a peace declaration, partial sanctions relief, or continued limitations on United States military exercises or troop presence without receiving tangible, irreversible concessions in return. Second, Mr. Trump risks squandering an opportunity to make real headway toward denuclearization. The United States intelligence community continues to assess that North Korea will not dismantle all of its nuclear weapons and delivery systems, because Mr. Kim sees them as vital to his regime’s survival. Still, it would be wise to test the limits of diplomacy and the possibility that American experts are wrong. Dialogue, backed by sanctions and concerted international pressure, represent the only rational path for defusing the North Korean nuclear threat. The alternative, a devastating conflagration that could escalate into nuclear war, should be unthinkable. Fortunately, the Trump administration’s new envoy for North Korea, Stephen Biegun, understands the risks and the opportunities. He is engaged in a serious effort to try both to eradicate North Korea’s nuclear and missile programs and address the issues impeding normalization of relations. If Mr. Trump truly empowers Mr. Biegun and refrains from granting premature concessions or acquiescing in the unacceptable status quo, there is potential for meaningful dialogue in Hanoi — unlike the hyped, hollow pledges that characterized the Singapore summit. To move the needle, the United States and North Korea will need to agree on a series of incremental, reciprocal steps that would build mutual confidence as part of a road map to full denuclearization. Such steps could combine verifiable constraints on North Korea’s nuclear and missile programs with limited sanctions relief and movement toward achieving a final peace agreement. Reasonable constraints would include opening up declared North Korean facilities to international inspectors, halting further production of fissile material and ballistic missiles, codifying Mr. Kim’s announced testing freezes and nonproliferation pledge and obtaining firm commitments from North Korea to declare the totality of its nuclear and missile infrastructure. The model for this approach, anathema as it is to Mr. Trump, is the Iran nuclear negotiations. First, the Obama administration reached an interim agreement with Iran to freeze its nuclear development and roll back aspects of its program in exchange for limited and reversible sanctions relief. This Joint Plan of Action created the conditions for extended negotiations to achieve — over a year and a half later — a final, verifiable deal to denuclearize Iran. This plan was affirmed by Congress and enshrined in international law. Iran was fully adhering to its obligations when the Trump administration unilaterally withdrew last year. To maximize the prospects for success, as in the Iran negotiations, the United States needs China, Russia, Japan and South Korea to join in overseeing implementation of any interim deal. They must also tighten enforcement of existing sanctions and agree to synchronize any deliberate easing of pressure in exchange for concrete, verifiable steps from North Korea. Unfortunately, our international partners are pursuing their separate interests, diminishing American leverage. Though the Trump administration reflexively scorns multilateral efforts, North Korea is yet another case where going it alone won’t suffice. In Hanoi, Mr. Trump has an opportunity to achieve incremental progress toward denuclearization. Unfortunately, history suggests that Mr. Trump will be content with another colorful photo opportunity and more diplomatic shadow boxing that perpetuates the illusion of success, while running down the clock on a nearly intractable challenge. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Susan E. Rice, the national security adviser from 2013 to 2017 and a former United States ambassador to the United Nations, is a contributing opinion writer.  @AmbassadorRice Supported by By Reuters (Reuters) - U.S. Special Counsel Robert Mueller found numerous instances of possible obstruction of justice by President Donald Trump during his investigation of Russia's interference in the 2016 presidential election.     The following are the occurrences (some details were redacted from the report):         * The Trump campaign's response to reports of Russia's support for Trump: After WikiLeaks released politically damaging Democratic Party emails that reportedly were hacked by Russia, "Trump publicly expressed scepticism that Russia was responsible for the hacks at the same time that he and other Campaign officials privately sought information ... about any further planned WikiLeaks releases."           * Conduct involving FBI Director James Comey and national security adviser Michael Flynn:  Following the firing of Flynn, Trump demanded a one-on-one meeting with Comey in the White House Oval Office.     Referring to an FBI investigation of Flynn, Trump said, "I hope you can see your way clear to letting this go, to letting Flynn go. He is a good guy."     Trump also sought to have K.T. McFarland, the deputy national security adviser, draft an internal letter stating that he had not directed Flynn to discuss sanctions with a senior Russian diplomat, Sergey Kislyak.     "McFarland declined because she did not know whether that was true, and a White House Counsel's Office attorney thought that the request would look like a quid pro quo for an ambassadorship she had been offered," according to the Mueller report.          * Trump's reaction to the Russia investigation: In early March 2017, Trump instructed White House Counsel Donald McGahn to stop Attorney General Jeff Sessions from recusing himself from the Russia investigation. After Sessions recused himself, Trump "expressed anger at the decision and told advisors that he should have an Attorney General who would protect him," the report said. Trump later urged Sessions to "unrecuse."     Trump also called Comey, who as FBI director was leading the Russia investigation, and urged him to "lift the cloud" over his presidency by publicly saying that Trump personally was not being investigated at the time.          * Trump's firing of Comey: Shortly after Comey, in testimony to Congress, declined to answer questions about whether Trump personally was under investigation, the president fired him.     "The day after firing Comey, the President told Russian officials that he had 'faced great pressure because of Russia,' which had been 'taken off' by Comey's firing."          * The appointment of a special counsel and efforts to remove him: Trump told aides that Mueller had conflicts of interest "and suggested that the Special Counsel therefore could not serve. The President's advisors told him the asserted conflicts were meritless and had already been considered by the Department of Justice."     Following media reports that Mueller was investigating Trump, the president wrote a series of tweets criticizing the investigation. He also urged Mueller be fired, the report stated.         * Efforts to curtail the special counsel’s investigation:  On June 19, 2017, Trump met with former campaign manager Corey Lewandowski and dictated a message for him to deliver to Sessions, saying Sessions should announce publicly that the investigation was “very unfair” to the president and that the president had done nothing wrong.     Lewandowski told Trump he would do so but he asked senior White House official Rick Dearborn to do it but Dearborn did not follow through. Meanwhile, Trump issued a series of tweets making it clear Sessions’ job was in jeopardy.     * Efforts to prevent public disclosure of evidence: In the summer of 2017, Trump learned the media was asking questions about the June 9, 2016, meeting at Trump Tower between senior campaign senior campaign officials, including Donald Trump Jr., and a Russian lawyer who was said to be offering damaging information about Hillary Clinton. He directed aides to not publicly disclose the emails setting up the meeting, the report said.     "Before the emails became public, the President edited a press statement for Trump Jr. by deleting a line that acknowledged that the meeting was with ‘an individual who [Trump Jr.] was told might have information helpful to the campaign’ and instead said only that the meeting was about adoptions of Russian children."          * Further efforts to have Sessions take control of the investigation: "In early summer 2017, the President called Sessions at home and again asked him to reverse his recusal from the Russia investigation. Sessions did not," the report said.     In October 2017, the President met privately with Sessions in the Oval Office and asked him to “take [a] look” at investigating Clinton, it said. In December 2017, Trump again met Sessions and suggested, that if Sessions unrecused and took back supervision of the Russia investigation, he would be a “hero.”     "The President told Sessions, “I’m not going to do anything or direct you to do anything. I just want to be treated fairly.” In response, Sessions volunteered that he had never seen anything “improper” on the campaign and he did not unrecuse, the report said.          * Efforts to have McGahn deny that Trump had ordered him to have the special counsel removed: "In early 2018, the press reported that the President had directed McGahn to have the Special Counsel removed in June 2017 and that McGahn had threatened to resign rather than carry out the order.     "The President reacted to the news stories by directing White House officials to tell McGahn to dispute the story and create a record stating he had not been ordered to have the Special Counsel removed," the report said. But McGahn told those officials that the media reports were accurate.     Trump met with McGahn and pressured him to deny the reports but "McGahn refused to back away from what he remembered happening and perceived the President to be testing his mettle," the report said.     * Conduct toward Flynn, ex-Trump campaign chairman Manafort, (redacted):      "After Flynn withdrew from a joint defense agreement with the President and began cooperating with the government, the President’s personal counsel left a message for Flynn’s attorneys reminding them of the President’s warm feelings towards Flynn, which he said 'still remains,' and asking for a 'heads up' if Flynn knew 'information that implicates the President,'" the report said.     When Flynn’s counsel said Flynn could no longer share information, the President’s personal counsel said he would make sure that Trump knew that Flynn’s actions reflected “hostility” toward the president, it said.     During Manafort’s prosecution, the President praised Manafort publicly and declined to rule out a pardon. After Manafort was convicted, the President called Manafort “a brave man” for refusing to “break” and said that “flipping” “almost ought to be outlawed," the report said.          * Conduct involving Michael Cohen: "The President’s conduct towards Michael Cohen, a former Trump Organization executive, changed from praise for Cohen when he falsely minimized the President’s involvement in the Trump Tower Moscow project, to castigation of Cohen when he became a cooperating witness," the report said.     Cohen had pursued the Trump Tower project on behalf of the Trump organization from September 2015 to June 2016, and briefed then-candidate Trump on the project numerous times, including discussing whether Trump should travel to Russia to advance the deal, it said.     After the FBI searched Cohen’s home and office in April 2018, the President contacted him directly to tell him to “stay strong,” the report said. Cohen also discussed pardons with the President’s personal counsel. "But after Cohen began cooperating with the government in the summer of 2018, the President publicly criticized him, called him a “rat,” and suggested that his family members had committed crimes," the report said.  (Reporting by Richard Cowan and Susan Cornwell; Editing by Bill Trott)

Supported by By Reuters (Reuters) - U.S. Special Counsel Robert Mueller found numerous instances of possible obstruction of justice by President Donald Trump during his investigation of Russia's interference in the 2016 presidential election.     The following are the occurrences (some details were redacted from the report):         * The Trump campaign's response to reports of Russia's support for Trump: After WikiLeaks released politically damaging Democratic Party emails that reportedly were hacked by Russia, "Trump publicly expressed scepticism that Russia was responsible for the hacks at the same time that he and other Campaign officials privately sought information ... about any further planned WikiLeaks releases."           * Conduct involving FBI Director James Comey and national security adviser Michael Flynn:  Following the firing of Flynn, Trump demanded a one-on-one meeting with Comey in the White House Oval Office.     Referring to an FBI investigation of Flynn, Trump said, "I hope you can see your way clear to letting this go, to letting Flynn go. He is a good guy."     Trump also sought to have K.T. McFarland, the deputy national security adviser, draft an internal letter stating that he had not directed Flynn to discuss sanctions with a senior Russian diplomat, Sergey Kislyak.     "McFarland declined because she did not know whether that was true, and a White House Counsel's Office attorney thought that the request would look like a quid pro quo for an ambassadorship she had been offered," according to the Mueller report.          * Trump's reaction to the Russia investigation: In early March 2017, Trump instructed White House Counsel Donald McGahn to stop Attorney General Jeff Sessions from recusing himself from the Russia investigation. After Sessions recused himself, Trump "expressed anger at the decision and told advisors that he should have an Attorney General who would protect him," the report said. Trump later urged Sessions to "unrecuse."     Trump also called Comey, who as FBI director was leading the Russia investigation, and urged him to "lift the cloud" over his presidency by publicly saying that Trump personally was not being investigated at the time.          * Trump's firing of Comey: Shortly after Comey, in testimony to Congress, declined to answer questions about whether Trump personally was under investigation, the president fired him.     "The day after firing Comey, the President told Russian officials that he had 'faced great pressure because of Russia,' which had been 'taken off' by Comey's firing."          * The appointment of a special counsel and efforts to remove him: Trump told aides that Mueller had conflicts of interest "and suggested that the Special Counsel therefore could not serve. The President's advisors told him the asserted conflicts were meritless and had already been considered by the Department of Justice."     Following media reports that Mueller was investigating Trump, the president wrote a series of tweets criticizing the investigation. He also urged Mueller be fired, the report stated.         * Efforts to curtail the special counsel’s investigation:  On June 19, 2017, Trump met with former campaign manager Corey Lewandowski and dictated a message for him to deliver to Sessions, saying Sessions should announce publicly that the investigation was “very unfair” to the president and that the president had done nothing wrong.     Lewandowski told Trump he would do so but he asked senior White House official Rick Dearborn to do it but Dearborn did not follow through. Meanwhile, Trump issued a series of tweets making it clear Sessions’ job was in jeopardy.     * Efforts to prevent public disclosure of evidence: In the summer of 2017, Trump learned the media was asking questions about the June 9, 2016, meeting at Trump Tower between senior campaign senior campaign officials, including Donald Trump Jr., and a Russian lawyer who was said to be offering damaging information about Hillary Clinton. He directed aides to not publicly disclose the emails setting up the meeting, the report said.     "Before the emails became public, the President edited a press statement for Trump Jr. by deleting a line that acknowledged that the meeting was with ‘an individual who [Trump Jr.] was told might have information helpful to the campaign’ and instead said only that the meeting was about adoptions of Russian children."          * Further efforts to have Sessions take control of the investigation: "In early summer 2017, the President called Sessions at home and again asked him to reverse his recusal from the Russia investigation. Sessions did not," the report said.     In October 2017, the President met privately with Sessions in the Oval Office and asked him to “take [a] look” at investigating Clinton, it said. In December 2017, Trump again met Sessions and suggested, that if Sessions unrecused and took back supervision of the Russia investigation, he would be a “hero.”     "The President told Sessions, “I’m not going to do anything or direct you to do anything. I just want to be treated fairly.” In response, Sessions volunteered that he had never seen anything “improper” on the campaign and he did not unrecuse, the report said.          * Efforts to have McGahn deny that Trump had ordered him to have the special counsel removed: "In early 2018, the press reported that the President had directed McGahn to have the Special Counsel removed in June 2017 and that McGahn had threatened to resign rather than carry out the order.     "The President reacted to the news stories by directing White House officials to tell McGahn to dispute the story and create a record stating he had not been ordered to have the Special Counsel removed," the report said. But McGahn told those officials that the media reports were accurate.     Trump met with McGahn and pressured him to deny the reports but "McGahn refused to back away from what he remembered happening and perceived the President to be testing his mettle," the report said.     * Conduct toward Flynn, ex-Trump campaign chairman Manafort, (redacted):      "After Flynn withdrew from a joint defense agreement with the President and began cooperating with the government, the President’s personal counsel left a message for Flynn’s attorneys reminding them of the President’s warm feelings towards Flynn, which he said 'still remains,' and asking for a 'heads up' if Flynn knew 'information that implicates the President,'" the report said.     When Flynn’s counsel said Flynn could no longer share information, the President’s personal counsel said he would make sure that Trump knew that Flynn’s actions reflected “hostility” toward the president, it said.     During Manafort’s prosecution, the President praised Manafort publicly and declined to rule out a pardon. After Manafort was convicted, the President called Manafort “a brave man” for refusing to “break” and said that “flipping” “almost ought to be outlawed," the report said.          * Conduct involving Michael Cohen: "The President’s conduct towards Michael Cohen, a former Trump Organization executive, changed from praise for Cohen when he falsely minimized the President’s involvement in the Trump Tower Moscow project, to castigation of Cohen when he became a cooperating witness," the report said.     Cohen had pursued the Trump Tower project on behalf of the Trump organization from September 2015 to June 2016, and briefed then-candidate Trump on the project numerous times, including discussing whether Trump should travel to Russia to advance the deal, it said.     After the FBI searched Cohen’s home and office in April 2018, the President contacted him directly to tell him to “stay strong,” the report said. Cohen also discussed pardons with the President’s personal counsel. "But after Cohen began cooperating with the government in the summer of 2018, the President publicly criticized him, called him a “rat,” and suggested that his family members had committed crimes," the report said.  (Reporting by Richard Cowan and Susan Cornwell; Editing by Bill Trott)Supported by Maybe the president brilliantly played the media. Or maybe we just played ourselves. By Bret Stephens Opinion Columnist Maybe we’ve had this all wrong. Maybe Donald Trump isn’t just some two-bit con artist who lucked his way into the White House thanks to an overconfident opponent. Or a second-rate demagogue with a rat-like instinct for arousing his base’s baser emotions and his enemies’ knee-jerk reactions. Or a dimwit mistaken for an oracle, like some malignant version of Chauncey Gardiner from “Being There.” Thanks to Robert Mueller, we know he isn’t Russia’s man inside, awaiting coded instruction from his handler in the Kremlin. Maybe, in fact, Trump is the genius he claims to be, possessed — as he likes to boast — of a “very good brain.” O.K., I don’t quite believe that. But going forward, it would be wise for all of his inveterate critics in the news media, including me, to treat it as our operating assumption. The alternative is to let him hand us our butts all over again, just as he did by winning the G.O.P. nomination and then the election, and then by presiding over years of robust economic growth. That should be the central lesson from the epic media fiasco of Russiagate. Let’s specify what the fiasco is not. It’s not that there was nothing for Mueller to investigate. It’s not that he uncovered no wrongdoing. It’s not that the president did not act in suspicious ways, epitomized by his appalling performance at Helsinki. It’s not that he didn’t lie and mislead, not least about his business ties in Russia. It’s not that the Trump campaign wasn’t studded with people who were, at a minimum, profoundly vulnerable to Russian blackmail. It’s not that the Kremlin didn’t actively seek to interfere in the election, with a favorable eye toward Trump’s candidacy.  Pace the president and his sycophants — the ones who spent nearly two years casting aspersions on Mueller’s integrity, only to now hail his conclusions as dispositive — the nature and extent of Trump’s ties to Russia required a thorough investigation. It got done. Barring some major discrepancy between the attorney general’s summary of Mueller’s report and the report itself, it’s time to say: Case closed. Thank God the president is not a Russian stooge. The fiasco was to assume that the result of Mueller’s investigation was a foregone conclusion. And to believe that the existence of dots was enough to prove that they had to connect. And to report on it nonstop, breathlessly, as if the levee would break any second. And to turn Adam Schiff into a celebrity guest. And to belittle or exclude contrarian voices. Last July, I wrote of the special counsel’s inquiry: “The smart play is to defend the integrity of Mueller’s investigation and invest as little political capital as possible in predicting the result. If Mueller discovers a crime, that’s a gift to the president’s opponents. If he discovers nothing, it shouldn’t become a humiliating liability.”  Instead, as Matt Taibbi perceptively observed last week, what we have is a W.M.D.-size self-inflicted media disaster, which ought to require some extensive self-criticism before we breathlessly move on to Trump’s latest alleged idiocy. Assume for a moment that Trump’s odd Russia behavior, including the obsequiousness toward Vladimir Putin and the routine eruptions against Mueller, was merely a way of baiting journalists for years. If so, he could hardly have played us better: He’d be the Keyser Söze of media manipulation. To adapt a line, perhaps the greatest trick Trump ever pulled was to convince the world his brain didn’t exist. There’s a simpler, opposite explanation: Trump was never sophisticated enough to have been involved in some high-flown conspiracy with Russia. It would have required too much guile. Forget Söze; think Inspector Jacques Clouseau. The difference between suspicious and shambolic behavior often depends on who is doing the watching. Where some see chaos, others detect patterns. From a certain distance, they can be hard to tell apart. For years I’ve bounced between these two interpretations of the president — at times astonished by his incompetence; at other times amazed by his cunning. There’s much about the world that Trump will never understand. What he knows, however, is that success is above all a matter of being seen (regardless of results); that the more one lies, the less people notice; that winning is a matter of playing by one’s own rules (and changing them as needed); that, while hope may be inspiring, rage is intoxicating. These ideas may be noxious, but they are also the fundamental political insights of our time. Whichever view one takes, Donald Trump has just won a major victory over his chosen political enemies, including this newspaper. Whether he’s achieved this through genius or luck, it would behoove us not to take him for a fool. This was the week to examine our own foolishness instead.  The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Bret L. Stephens has been an Opinion columnist with The Times since April 2017. He won a Pulitzer Prize for commentary at The Wall Street Journal in 2013 and was previously editor in chief of The Jerusalem Post.  @BretStephensNYT • Facebook 

Supported by Maybe the president brilliantly played the media. Or maybe we just played ourselves. By Bret Stephens Opinion Columnist Maybe we’ve had this all wrong. Maybe Donald Trump isn’t just some two-bit con artist who lucked his way into the White House thanks to an overconfident opponent. Or a second-rate demagogue with a rat-like instinct for arousing his base’s baser emotions and his enemies’ knee-jerk reactions. Or a dimwit mistaken for an oracle, like some malignant version of Chauncey Gardiner from “Being There.” Thanks to Robert Mueller, we know he isn’t Russia’s man inside, awaiting coded instruction from his handler in the Kremlin. Maybe, in fact, Trump is the genius he claims to be, possessed — as he likes to boast — of a “very good brain.” O.K., I don’t quite believe that. But going forward, it would be wise for all of his inveterate critics in the news media, including me, to treat it as our operating assumption. The alternative is to let him hand us our butts all over again, just as he did by winning the G.O.P. nomination and then the election, and then by presiding over years of robust economic growth. That should be the central lesson from the epic media fiasco of Russiagate. Let’s specify what the fiasco is not. It’s not that there was nothing for Mueller to investigate. It’s not that he uncovered no wrongdoing. It’s not that the president did not act in suspicious ways, epitomized by his appalling performance at Helsinki. It’s not that he didn’t lie and mislead, not least about his business ties in Russia. It’s not that the Trump campaign wasn’t studded with people who were, at a minimum, profoundly vulnerable to Russian blackmail. It’s not that the Kremlin didn’t actively seek to interfere in the election, with a favorable eye toward Trump’s candidacy.  Pace the president and his sycophants — the ones who spent nearly two years casting aspersions on Mueller’s integrity, only to now hail his conclusions as dispositive — the nature and extent of Trump’s ties to Russia required a thorough investigation. It got done. Barring some major discrepancy between the attorney general’s summary of Mueller’s report and the report itself, it’s time to say: Case closed. Thank God the president is not a Russian stooge. The fiasco was to assume that the result of Mueller’s investigation was a foregone conclusion. And to believe that the existence of dots was enough to prove that they had to connect. And to report on it nonstop, breathlessly, as if the levee would break any second. And to turn Adam Schiff into a celebrity guest. And to belittle or exclude contrarian voices. Last July, I wrote of the special counsel’s inquiry: “The smart play is to defend the integrity of Mueller’s investigation and invest as little political capital as possible in predicting the result. If Mueller discovers a crime, that’s a gift to the president’s opponents. If he discovers nothing, it shouldn’t become a humiliating liability.”  Instead, as Matt Taibbi perceptively observed last week, what we have is a W.M.D.-size self-inflicted media disaster, which ought to require some extensive self-criticism before we breathlessly move on to Trump’s latest alleged idiocy. Assume for a moment that Trump’s odd Russia behavior, including the obsequiousness toward Vladimir Putin and the routine eruptions against Mueller, was merely a way of baiting journalists for years. If so, he could hardly have played us better: He’d be the Keyser Söze of media manipulation. To adapt a line, perhaps the greatest trick Trump ever pulled was to convince the world his brain didn’t exist. There’s a simpler, opposite explanation: Trump was never sophisticated enough to have been involved in some high-flown conspiracy with Russia. It would have required too much guile. Forget Söze; think Inspector Jacques Clouseau. The difference between suspicious and shambolic behavior often depends on who is doing the watching. Where some see chaos, others detect patterns. From a certain distance, they can be hard to tell apart. For years I’ve bounced between these two interpretations of the president — at times astonished by his incompetence; at other times amazed by his cunning. There’s much about the world that Trump will never understand. What he knows, however, is that success is above all a matter of being seen (regardless of results); that the more one lies, the less people notice; that winning is a matter of playing by one’s own rules (and changing them as needed); that, while hope may be inspiring, rage is intoxicating. These ideas may be noxious, but they are also the fundamental political insights of our time. Whichever view one takes, Donald Trump has just won a major victory over his chosen political enemies, including this newspaper. Whether he’s achieved this through genius or luck, it would behoove us not to take him for a fool. This was the week to examine our own foolishness instead.  The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Bret L. Stephens has been an Opinion columnist with The Times since April 2017. He won a Pulitzer Prize for commentary at The Wall Street Journal in 2013 and was previously editor in chief of The Jerusalem Post.  @BretStephensNYT • Facebook Supported by And what's all that sniffling about? By Gail Collins Opinion Columnist We need to look at the bright side of Donald Trump’s border wall fixation. Sure, he’s shut down the government and thrown the nation into chaos. But it could be worse. He could be demanding a fiery moat between us and Canada. Or building a 36,000-foot-deep barrier across the Pacific Ocean to drive home his commitment to tariffs. See? There’s always a silver lining. Trump wants a $5.7 billion down payment to build a wall along the Mexican border to protect us from caravans of terrorists and drug dealers. We hadn’t heard a lot about the caravan menace since the midterm elections, but the president brought it back on Wednesday. This was shortly before he walked out of a meeting with Democratic leaders about the government shutdown. The two sides disagreed on who caused the talks to collapse. Obviously, it was something about the you-know-what. Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer claimed that when the wall came up, Trump “sort of slammed the table … and said we have nothing to discuss.” Republican leaders tried to pin all the blame on obdurate Democrats. “I said bye-bye,” tweeted the president. O.K., this one is pretty clear. The meeting was brief. After only about 30 minutes, he who says “bye-bye” is the culprit. Even if, as House Republican leader Kevin McCarthy claimed, Trump “brought a little candy for everybody.” Maybe all this wall obsessing makes Trump tired. He certainly seemed low-energy during his Oval Office address. “He makes Jeb Bush look like a combination of Mighty Mouse and Bruce Springsteen,” a friend of mine said after the president finished his nine-minute speech to the American people.  For every viewer whose response to the talk was “Wow, we should do something about immigration!” there must have been a hundred whose first reaction was “Why does this man keep sniffing?” Deviated septum? Nasal polyps? Trump’s breathing has actually sounded strange for a long time, but most of us have chosen to ignore it rather than engage in a national conversation about the president’s nose. If you watched the address — and really, you could have, it was only about as long as it takes to microwave popcorn — you saw a 72-year-old guy squinting at the teleprompter and making rather alarming breathing sounds while reading a speech about how we need a wall to protect women who are “sexually assaulted on the dangerous trek up through Mexico.” This is not a man who should wrap his arguments around the idea of protecting women from sexual assault. But also, gee, he sounded like Uncle Fred who you haven’t seen for a while and suddenly he shows up for Thanksgiving with weird colored hair and vacant eyes and he’s talking into his mashed potatoes. Now we know why Trump never made a speech from the Oval Office before. He’s a guy whose great political talent is yelling applause lines to a howling mob of supporters. If they cheer, he goes back again and again.  When he first announced he was running for president, he got an enthusiastic response to a speech that called Mexicans drug-dealing rapists. We will always wonder what would have happened if he’d said “Pre-K, all the way!” and gotten a similar reaction. Maybe this week he’d be on TV refusing to fund the government until he got more money for early childhood education. Trump’s political advisers encouraged him to carry on about a wall during the presidential campaign because they wanted him to focus on immigration and understood how difficult it is for him to stay with … a thought. As Julie Hirschfeld Davis and Peter Baker of The Times reported recently, the advisers knew he liked to brag about building stuff, so they decided to “get him to talk about he’s going to build a wall.” Again, think of the bright side. What if they’d wanted his signature issue to be American pre-eminence throughout the globe and got him to peddle a plan to build a huge tower that would reach all the way to heaven? Hasn’t been attempted since Genesis, but if you stacked a million hotels on top of one another — Make America Great! By now Trump would have closed off a quarter of Illinois to make room for the foundation. There’s no way to be cheery about the government shutdown. This is really terrible. Some of those suffering most are smaller government contractors, whose businesses could very well fail while they wait to be paid for work they’ve already done. (Stiffing contractors is possibly the only area of his job in which our president has a lot of pregovernment experience.) But about the wall. People, how do you feel about putting a concrete or whoops-maybe-steel-slats barrier between us and Mexico? A) Great way to avoid the constant danger of caravans. B) Meanspirited waste of money. C) Better than the fiery moat. The beat goes on. Thursday had Trump scheduled for a visit to the Texas-Mexico border — a trip that the president told a lunch with TV newscasters is “not going to change a damn thing.” He sure sounds negative. Do you think he believes he’s already been to the border enough? After all, he already went there in 2018. Next thing you know, they’ll be expecting him to go there every year. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Gail Collins is an Op-Ed columnist, a former member of the editorial board and was the first woman to serve as Times editorial page editor, from 2001 to 2007.  @GailCollins • Facebook 

Supported by And what's all that sniffling about? By Gail Collins Opinion Columnist We need to look at the bright side of Donald Trump’s border wall fixation. Sure, he’s shut down the government and thrown the nation into chaos. But it could be worse. He could be demanding a fiery moat between us and Canada. Or building a 36,000-foot-deep barrier across the Pacific Ocean to drive home his commitment to tariffs. See? There’s always a silver lining. Trump wants a $5.7 billion down payment to build a wall along the Mexican border to protect us from caravans of terrorists and drug dealers. We hadn’t heard a lot about the caravan menace since the midterm elections, but the president brought it back on Wednesday. This was shortly before he walked out of a meeting with Democratic leaders about the government shutdown. The two sides disagreed on who caused the talks to collapse. Obviously, it was something about the you-know-what. Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer claimed that when the wall came up, Trump “sort of slammed the table … and said we have nothing to discuss.” Republican leaders tried to pin all the blame on obdurate Democrats. “I said bye-bye,” tweeted the president. O.K., this one is pretty clear. The meeting was brief. After only about 30 minutes, he who says “bye-bye” is the culprit. Even if, as House Republican leader Kevin McCarthy claimed, Trump “brought a little candy for everybody.” Maybe all this wall obsessing makes Trump tired. He certainly seemed low-energy during his Oval Office address. “He makes Jeb Bush look like a combination of Mighty Mouse and Bruce Springsteen,” a friend of mine said after the president finished his nine-minute speech to the American people.  For every viewer whose response to the talk was “Wow, we should do something about immigration!” there must have been a hundred whose first reaction was “Why does this man keep sniffing?” Deviated septum? Nasal polyps? Trump’s breathing has actually sounded strange for a long time, but most of us have chosen to ignore it rather than engage in a national conversation about the president’s nose. If you watched the address — and really, you could have, it was only about as long as it takes to microwave popcorn — you saw a 72-year-old guy squinting at the teleprompter and making rather alarming breathing sounds while reading a speech about how we need a wall to protect women who are “sexually assaulted on the dangerous trek up through Mexico.” This is not a man who should wrap his arguments around the idea of protecting women from sexual assault. But also, gee, he sounded like Uncle Fred who you haven’t seen for a while and suddenly he shows up for Thanksgiving with weird colored hair and vacant eyes and he’s talking into his mashed potatoes. Now we know why Trump never made a speech from the Oval Office before. He’s a guy whose great political talent is yelling applause lines to a howling mob of supporters. If they cheer, he goes back again and again.  When he first announced he was running for president, he got an enthusiastic response to a speech that called Mexicans drug-dealing rapists. We will always wonder what would have happened if he’d said “Pre-K, all the way!” and gotten a similar reaction. Maybe this week he’d be on TV refusing to fund the government until he got more money for early childhood education. Trump’s political advisers encouraged him to carry on about a wall during the presidential campaign because they wanted him to focus on immigration and understood how difficult it is for him to stay with … a thought. As Julie Hirschfeld Davis and Peter Baker of The Times reported recently, the advisers knew he liked to brag about building stuff, so they decided to “get him to talk about he’s going to build a wall.” Again, think of the bright side. What if they’d wanted his signature issue to be American pre-eminence throughout the globe and got him to peddle a plan to build a huge tower that would reach all the way to heaven? Hasn’t been attempted since Genesis, but if you stacked a million hotels on top of one another — Make America Great! By now Trump would have closed off a quarter of Illinois to make room for the foundation. There’s no way to be cheery about the government shutdown. This is really terrible. Some of those suffering most are smaller government contractors, whose businesses could very well fail while they wait to be paid for work they’ve already done. (Stiffing contractors is possibly the only area of his job in which our president has a lot of pregovernment experience.) But about the wall. People, how do you feel about putting a concrete or whoops-maybe-steel-slats barrier between us and Mexico? A) Great way to avoid the constant danger of caravans. B) Meanspirited waste of money. C) Better than the fiery moat. The beat goes on. Thursday had Trump scheduled for a visit to the Texas-Mexico border — a trip that the president told a lunch with TV newscasters is “not going to change a damn thing.” He sure sounds negative. Do you think he believes he’s already been to the border enough? After all, he already went there in 2018. Next thing you know, they’ll be expecting him to go there every year. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Gail Collins is an Op-Ed columnist, a former member of the editorial board and was the first woman to serve as Times editorial page editor, from 2001 to 2007.  @GailCollins • Facebook Supported by By Deborah B. Solomon WASHINGTON — President Trump said on Tuesday that he would consider delaying a March 2 deadline to reach a trade deal with China, saying the United States might not impose higher tariffs on Chinese goods if talks with Beijing were going well. “If we’re close to a deal where we think we can make a real deal, I could see myself letting them slide for a little while,” Mr. Trump said during remarks at the Oval Office. Mr. Trump’s comments came as American officials were in Beijing for a week of talks with Chinese officials to try to resolve a trade war that has begun to inflict economic damage on both sides of the Pacific. The two countries are trying to work out significant differences ahead of the March 2 deadline, when, the United States has said, it will increase tariffs on $200 billion worth of Chinese goods to 25 percent from 10 percent. [One potentially big obstacle in the way of reaching a deal is how the United States punishes China if it doesn’t meet its obligations.]  Both Mr. Trump and his top trade negotiator, Robert Lighthizer, have previously said that the deadline is a firm date and that the United States will not extend the timeline, which Mr. Trump and President Xi Jinping of China agreed upon during a dinner in Buenos Aires last year. But with many of the biggest issues unresolved and the deadline drawing near, Mr. Trump appeared ready to give both sides more time to negotiate. And he again suggested that he and Mr. Xi may ultimately needed to iron out the remaining differences before a final deal was reached. “At some point, I expect to meet with Xi and make the parts of the deal that the group is unable to make,” Mr. Trump said. The president had originally suggested that such a meeting could take place ahead of the deadline but reversed course last week, saying he would not meet with Mr. Xi before March 2. A delegation of top American trade officials, including Mr. Lighthizer and Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, arrived in Beijing this week to try to negotiate the outlines of a deal. Mr. Trump characterized those discussions as “going well” and said he thought the United States had a chance “to make a real deal.” He added that he wanted it “to be a real deal, not just a deal that looks cosmetically good for a year.” But steep challenges remain to striking an agreement that addresses the administration’s primary concerns, including China’s practice of forcing American companies to hand over valuable technology and restricting access to its market. Mr. Lighthizer, who briefed senators last week, told lawmakers that one of the biggest issues was ensuring that China followed through with whatever commitments it made. Senators told Mr. Lighthizer that they wanted the text of any agreement or memo of understanding with China to be made public. For now, China primarily appears willing to buy more American goods, like soybeans, but has not indicated how many other concessions it is prepared to make. And while both countries have expressed optimism about bridging their differences, Mr. Xi is facing pressure in China not to agree to a deal that would jeopardize his country’s economic or national security. China’s economy is growing at its slowest pace in years, in part because of the American tariffs. Mr. Trump on Tuesday again portrayed China’s economic weakness as the United States’ strength, saying it was in China’s interest to make a deal. The United States, he said, could benefit by retaining tariffs on $250 billion worth of Chinese goods, and he again inaccurately suggested that China was paying the levies. “I’m happy either way,” he said. “I could live receiving billions and billions of dollars a month from China. China never gave us 10 cents. Now they are paying billions a month for the privilege of coming into the U.S. and honestly taking advantage.” While the United States is collecting billions in tariffs, that money is not coming directly from China but from companies and customers who buy imported goods.   

Supported by By Deborah B. Solomon WASHINGTON — President Trump said on Tuesday that he would consider delaying a March 2 deadline to reach a trade deal with China, saying the United States might not impose higher tariffs on Chinese goods if talks with Beijing were going well. “If we’re close to a deal where we think we can make a real deal, I could see myself letting them slide for a little while,” Mr. Trump said during remarks at the Oval Office. Mr. Trump’s comments came as American officials were in Beijing for a week of talks with Chinese officials to try to resolve a trade war that has begun to inflict economic damage on both sides of the Pacific. The two countries are trying to work out significant differences ahead of the March 2 deadline, when, the United States has said, it will increase tariffs on $200 billion worth of Chinese goods to 25 percent from 10 percent. [One potentially big obstacle in the way of reaching a deal is how the United States punishes China if it doesn’t meet its obligations.]  Both Mr. Trump and his top trade negotiator, Robert Lighthizer, have previously said that the deadline is a firm date and that the United States will not extend the timeline, which Mr. Trump and President Xi Jinping of China agreed upon during a dinner in Buenos Aires last year. But with many of the biggest issues unresolved and the deadline drawing near, Mr. Trump appeared ready to give both sides more time to negotiate. And he again suggested that he and Mr. Xi may ultimately needed to iron out the remaining differences before a final deal was reached. “At some point, I expect to meet with Xi and make the parts of the deal that the group is unable to make,” Mr. Trump said. The president had originally suggested that such a meeting could take place ahead of the deadline but reversed course last week, saying he would not meet with Mr. Xi before March 2. A delegation of top American trade officials, including Mr. Lighthizer and Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, arrived in Beijing this week to try to negotiate the outlines of a deal. Mr. Trump characterized those discussions as “going well” and said he thought the United States had a chance “to make a real deal.” He added that he wanted it “to be a real deal, not just a deal that looks cosmetically good for a year.” But steep challenges remain to striking an agreement that addresses the administration’s primary concerns, including China’s practice of forcing American companies to hand over valuable technology and restricting access to its market. Mr. Lighthizer, who briefed senators last week, told lawmakers that one of the biggest issues was ensuring that China followed through with whatever commitments it made. Senators told Mr. Lighthizer that they wanted the text of any agreement or memo of understanding with China to be made public. For now, China primarily appears willing to buy more American goods, like soybeans, but has not indicated how many other concessions it is prepared to make. And while both countries have expressed optimism about bridging their differences, Mr. Xi is facing pressure in China not to agree to a deal that would jeopardize his country’s economic or national security. China’s economy is growing at its slowest pace in years, in part because of the American tariffs. Mr. Trump on Tuesday again portrayed China’s economic weakness as the United States’ strength, saying it was in China’s interest to make a deal. The United States, he said, could benefit by retaining tariffs on $250 billion worth of Chinese goods, and he again inaccurately suggested that China was paying the levies. “I’m happy either way,” he said. “I could live receiving billions and billions of dollars a month from China. China never gave us 10 cents. Now they are paying billions a month for the privilege of coming into the U.S. and honestly taking advantage.” While the United States is collecting billions in tariffs, that money is not coming directly from China but from companies and customers who buy imported goods.   Supported by G.O.P. congressional leaders used tactics to minimize the president’s influence and maximize their own control over public policy. By Matthew Glassman Mr. Glassman is a senior fellow at the Government Affairs Institute at Georgetown. Donald Trump has a Congress problem. He can’t get Republicans to promote his policies. And when he forces the issue — as with his border wall — he can’t win their support. But most Americans don’t know that. After all, Republican legislators voted with the president well over 90 percent of the time during the 115th Congress. Record numbers of appellate judges were confirmed, and the president signed major tax legislation. Many observers have concluded that Mr. Trump dominates the Republican Party, and his loyal base holds congressional Republicans tautly in line. But discerning legislative influence is more difficult than it appears. Throughout the first two years of the Trump presidency, Republican leaders in Congress skillfully used a variety of tactics to minimize the president’s influence and maximize their own control over public policy. Critically, congressional Republicans have adopted strategies that make the public — and more important, his conservative base — think Mr. Trump is in command. To casual followers of political news, the visible evidence from congressional votes and news releases suggests a powerful president leading a loyal congressional party. In reality, Republican legislators have hidden their influence, purposefully disguising a weak president with little clout on Capitol Hill while also preserving party unity. In his 1960 book, “Presidential Power and the Modern Presidents,” the political scientist Richard Neustadt argued that presidential power is “the power to persuade.” Strong presidents have significant influence over public policy because they wield informal power, developing a reputation for getting their way and punishing those who impede their progress. Weak presidents — like Mr. Trump — fail to persuade, allowing competing political actors in Washington to block their goals and assert their own influence. Mr. Neustadt identified a second resource that aids in presidential persuasion: public prestige. Political actors in Washington may not fear the president, but they may think twice about standing in his way if they perceive the public response to doing so may hurt them. On this dimension, Mr. Trump appears to be stronger. His overall approval rating is very poor, but he is extremely popular among Republican voters. And his sizable conservative base is ready and willing to turn on elected Republicans in primary elections should they displease the president. The infrastructure of conservative media — Fox News, talk radio — strongly supports (and influences) Mr. Trump, augmenting this public power. Mr. Trump may not have much ability to sway Democrats, but Republican officials credibly fear crossing him. Nevertheless, congressional Republicans have found a solution to this challenge: agenda-setting. Political power is not simply the ability to influence the positions citizens or lawmakers take on issues, but also the ability to control what issues are discussed and voted on. Throughout the last Congress, Republican leaders simply declined to take up legislation that reflected the priority of the president but not their own. There were no votes on immigration restrictions or funding for a border wall, protectionist trade legislation or infrastructure. The Trump budget proposals for the 2017 and 2018 fiscal years requested deep cuts in nondefense discretionary spending. Congressional Republicans quietly buried them and delivered bills both years that increased nondefense spending. Such “negative” agenda-setting leaves little trace; without a vote, it becomes difficult for opponents or voters to identify or understand what happened. President Trump’s priorities weren’t voted down in the House or the Senate; they were just never considered. Agenda-setting also provides congressional leaders “positive” power to set legislative priorities. Mr. Trump has famously shown little interest in the details of policy, and Republican leaders in Washington easily convinced him to accept as his priorities the party’s orthodox issues of Affordable Care Act repeal and tax cuts during his first year in office. By setting the agenda and having the president sign on, Republican legislators controlled policy while sharing the position of the president. When Republicans held a White House celebration after passing tax legislation, Mr. Trump claimed credit, and legislators publicly praised the “Trump” tax bill, and the president himself. This trade-off, in which orthodox Republicans get policy control and Mr. Trump gets the glory, is also apparent in the nominations of judges and executive branch officials. The president was quite successful in having judicial nominees confirmed. But virtually all of his confirmed judges have been standard conservatives; likewise, his successful executive branch appointments much more reflect Republican priorities than his own. By privately influencing Mr. Trump to nominate people who reflect Republican priorities, congressional leaders not only win substantively, but the president gets to show off a perfect record of confirmations on the Senate floor, and a high rate of Republican support for his nominees. Despite this, Mr. Trump has had an unusually large number of nominees rejected by the Senate, many of whom were put forth without previous input from congressional leaders. But this, too, has been done less visibly, with candidates withdrawing or being defeated in committee rather than being rejected in actual votes on the Senate floor. The logic of agenda-setting also explains the reticence of congressional Republicans to conduct meaningful oversight of Mr. Trump or his administration. Full-scale legitimate investigations require visible agenda-setting. They cannot be accomplished by omission or in private. Negative and positive agenda-setting served the Republican policy agenda well during the first two years of the Trump administration. In December, however, in backing out of a Republican-constructed Senate deal that would have kept the government open, the president forcefully asserted his own legislative agenda-setting. Given the power of the veto as a presidential tool of negative agenda-setting, exasperated Republican senators had little choice but to allow Mr. Trump to take control of the border wall negotiations. Congressional leaders, however, continued to use subtle agenda-setting tactics. The majority leader, Mitch McConnell, became largely absent from the public debate, declining to take part in post-negotiation news conferences at the White House and flatly declaring he would not bring legislation to the Senate floor until the president and Democratic leaders had reached a deal that could pass — and Republicans would not have to visibly cross the president in difficult public votes. These tactics yielded impressive results. While a majority of Americans blamed Mr. Trump for the partial government shutdown, very few blamed congressional Republicans. The G.O.P. leaders have managed to not get the blame for the shutdown or get blamed by the base for abandoning the president. Now that Democrats control the House, Republican leaders may find it more difficult to limit the president’s legislative role. Mr. Trump will be less likely to accept a mostly theatric role in interparty negotiations and, as shown in the shutdown, may be more interested than congressional Republicans in public confrontation. This bodes poorly for legislative prospects in the new Congress. In our current partisan environment, the visible engagement of the president in the legislative process tends to polarize debate on even seemingly nonpartisan issues. Republican leaders know they’ve lost much of their policymaking capacity. They may soon realize they also can no longer mask the weakness of Mr. Trump. Matthew Glassman (@MattGlassman312) is a senior fellow at the Government Affairs Institute at Georgetown. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported by G.O.P. congressional leaders used tactics to minimize the president’s influence and maximize their own control over public policy. By Matthew Glassman Mr. Glassman is a senior fellow at the Government Affairs Institute at Georgetown. Donald Trump has a Congress problem. He can’t get Republicans to promote his policies. And when he forces the issue — as with his border wall — he can’t win their support. But most Americans don’t know that. After all, Republican legislators voted with the president well over 90 percent of the time during the 115th Congress. Record numbers of appellate judges were confirmed, and the president signed major tax legislation. Many observers have concluded that Mr. Trump dominates the Republican Party, and his loyal base holds congressional Republicans tautly in line. But discerning legislative influence is more difficult than it appears. Throughout the first two years of the Trump presidency, Republican leaders in Congress skillfully used a variety of tactics to minimize the president’s influence and maximize their own control over public policy. Critically, congressional Republicans have adopted strategies that make the public — and more important, his conservative base — think Mr. Trump is in command. To casual followers of political news, the visible evidence from congressional votes and news releases suggests a powerful president leading a loyal congressional party. In reality, Republican legislators have hidden their influence, purposefully disguising a weak president with little clout on Capitol Hill while also preserving party unity. In his 1960 book, “Presidential Power and the Modern Presidents,” the political scientist Richard Neustadt argued that presidential power is “the power to persuade.” Strong presidents have significant influence over public policy because they wield informal power, developing a reputation for getting their way and punishing those who impede their progress. Weak presidents — like Mr. Trump — fail to persuade, allowing competing political actors in Washington to block their goals and assert their own influence. Mr. Neustadt identified a second resource that aids in presidential persuasion: public prestige. Political actors in Washington may not fear the president, but they may think twice about standing in his way if they perceive the public response to doing so may hurt them. On this dimension, Mr. Trump appears to be stronger. His overall approval rating is very poor, but he is extremely popular among Republican voters. And his sizable conservative base is ready and willing to turn on elected Republicans in primary elections should they displease the president. The infrastructure of conservative media — Fox News, talk radio — strongly supports (and influences) Mr. Trump, augmenting this public power. Mr. Trump may not have much ability to sway Democrats, but Republican officials credibly fear crossing him. Nevertheless, congressional Republicans have found a solution to this challenge: agenda-setting. Political power is not simply the ability to influence the positions citizens or lawmakers take on issues, but also the ability to control what issues are discussed and voted on. Throughout the last Congress, Republican leaders simply declined to take up legislation that reflected the priority of the president but not their own. There were no votes on immigration restrictions or funding for a border wall, protectionist trade legislation or infrastructure. The Trump budget proposals for the 2017 and 2018 fiscal years requested deep cuts in nondefense discretionary spending. Congressional Republicans quietly buried them and delivered bills both years that increased nondefense spending. Such “negative” agenda-setting leaves little trace; without a vote, it becomes difficult for opponents or voters to identify or understand what happened. President Trump’s priorities weren’t voted down in the House or the Senate; they were just never considered. Agenda-setting also provides congressional leaders “positive” power to set legislative priorities. Mr. Trump has famously shown little interest in the details of policy, and Republican leaders in Washington easily convinced him to accept as his priorities the party’s orthodox issues of Affordable Care Act repeal and tax cuts during his first year in office. By setting the agenda and having the president sign on, Republican legislators controlled policy while sharing the position of the president. When Republicans held a White House celebration after passing tax legislation, Mr. Trump claimed credit, and legislators publicly praised the “Trump” tax bill, and the president himself. This trade-off, in which orthodox Republicans get policy control and Mr. Trump gets the glory, is also apparent in the nominations of judges and executive branch officials. The president was quite successful in having judicial nominees confirmed. But virtually all of his confirmed judges have been standard conservatives; likewise, his successful executive branch appointments much more reflect Republican priorities than his own. By privately influencing Mr. Trump to nominate people who reflect Republican priorities, congressional leaders not only win substantively, but the president gets to show off a perfect record of confirmations on the Senate floor, and a high rate of Republican support for his nominees. Despite this, Mr. Trump has had an unusually large number of nominees rejected by the Senate, many of whom were put forth without previous input from congressional leaders. But this, too, has been done less visibly, with candidates withdrawing or being defeated in committee rather than being rejected in actual votes on the Senate floor. The logic of agenda-setting also explains the reticence of congressional Republicans to conduct meaningful oversight of Mr. Trump or his administration. Full-scale legitimate investigations require visible agenda-setting. They cannot be accomplished by omission or in private. Negative and positive agenda-setting served the Republican policy agenda well during the first two years of the Trump administration. In December, however, in backing out of a Republican-constructed Senate deal that would have kept the government open, the president forcefully asserted his own legislative agenda-setting. Given the power of the veto as a presidential tool of negative agenda-setting, exasperated Republican senators had little choice but to allow Mr. Trump to take control of the border wall negotiations. Congressional leaders, however, continued to use subtle agenda-setting tactics. The majority leader, Mitch McConnell, became largely absent from the public debate, declining to take part in post-negotiation news conferences at the White House and flatly declaring he would not bring legislation to the Senate floor until the president and Democratic leaders had reached a deal that could pass — and Republicans would not have to visibly cross the president in difficult public votes. These tactics yielded impressive results. While a majority of Americans blamed Mr. Trump for the partial government shutdown, very few blamed congressional Republicans. The G.O.P. leaders have managed to not get the blame for the shutdown or get blamed by the base for abandoning the president. Now that Democrats control the House, Republican leaders may find it more difficult to limit the president’s legislative role. Mr. Trump will be less likely to accept a mostly theatric role in interparty negotiations and, as shown in the shutdown, may be more interested than congressional Republicans in public confrontation. This bodes poorly for legislative prospects in the new Congress. In our current partisan environment, the visible engagement of the president in the legislative process tends to polarize debate on even seemingly nonpartisan issues. Republican leaders know they’ve lost much of their policymaking capacity. They may soon realize they also can no longer mask the weakness of Mr. Trump. Matthew Glassman (@MattGlassman312) is a senior fellow at the Government Affairs Institute at Georgetown. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Supported by By Sharon LaFraniere and Katie Benner WASHINGTON — The special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, on Friday delivered a report on his inquiry into Russian interference in the 2016 election to Attorney General William P. Barr, bringing to a close an investigation that has consumed the nation and cast a shadow over President Trump for nearly two years. Mr. Barr told congressional leaders in a letter that he may brief them on the special counsel’s “principal conclusions” as early as this weekend, a surprisingly fast turnaround for a report anticipated for months. The attorney general said he “remained committed to as much transparency as possible.” In an apparent endorsement of an investigation that Mr. Trump has relentlessly attacked as a “witch hunt,” Mr. Barr said Justice Department officials never had to intervene to keep Mr. Mueller from taking an inappropriate or unwarranted step. The department’s regulations would have required Mr. Barr to inform the leaders of the House and Senate Judiciary committees about any such interventions in his letter. A senior Justice Department official said that Mr. Mueller would not recommend new indictments, a statement aimed at ending speculation that Mr. Trump or other key figures might be charged down the line. With department officials emphasizing that Mr. Mueller’s inquiry was over and his office closing, the question for both Mr. Trump’s critics and defenders was whether the prosecutors condemned the president’s behavior in their report, exonerated him — or neither. The president’s lawyers were already girding for a possible fight over whether they could assert executive privilege to keep parts of the report secret. [Update: Read Attorney General William Barr’s summary of the Mueller Report.] Since Mr. Mueller’s appointment in May 2017, his team has focused on how Russian operatives sought to sway the outcome of the 2016 presidential race and whether anyone tied to the Trump campaign, wittingly or unwittingly, cooperated with them. While the inquiry, started months earlier by the F.B.I., unearthed a far-ranging Russian influence operation, no public evidence emerged that the president or his aides illegally assisted it. Nonetheless, the damage to Mr. Trump and those in his circle has been extensive. A half-dozen former Trump aides were indicted or convicted of crimes, mostly for lying to federal investigators or Congress. Others remain under investigation in cases that Mr. Mueller’s office handed off to federal prosecutors in New York and elsewhere. Dozens of Russian intelligence officers or citizens, along with three Russian companies, were charged in cases that are likely to languish in court because the defendants cannot be extradited to the United States. Republicans immediately seized upon the news that no more indictments are expected as a vindication of Mr. Trump and his campaign. Those reports “confirm what we’ve known all along: There was never any collusion with Russia,” Representative Steve Scalise of Louisiana, the second-highest-ranking House Republican, said in a statement. Democrats, including some of those hoping to supplant Mr. Trump in the White House in the 2020 election, insisted that Mr. Mueller’s full report be made public, including the underlying evidence. In a joint statement, Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California and Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the top Senate Democrat, warned Mr. Barr not to allow the White House a “sneak preview” of the document. “The White House must not be allowed to interfere in decisions about what parts of those findings or evidence are made public,” they said. Not since Watergate has a special prosecutor’s inquiry so mesmerized the American public. Polls have shown that most Americans want to know its findings, and the House unanimously passed a nonbinding resolution to publicize the report. Mr. Barr’s letter said he would decide what to release after consulting with Mr. Mueller and Rod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general who has overseen his investigation. Justice Department officials emphasized that the White House had been kept at a distance. Only a handful of law enforcement officials have seen the report, said Kerri Kupec, a department spokeswoman. More than two years of criminal indictments and steady revelations about Trump campaign contacts with Russians reveal the scope of the special counsel investigation. Although a White House lawyer was notified that Mr. Mueller had delivered it to Mr. Barr, no White House official has seen the report or been briefed on it, according to Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary. “The next steps are up to Attorney General Barr, and we look forward to the process taking its course,” she said. Rudolph W. Giuliani, one of the president’s personal lawyers, said he planned to remain in Washington over the weekend in part because Mr. Barr might update Congress on Mr. Mueller’s findings. He sidestepped a question about whether the president’s lawyers were seeking to review the report before any of it becomes public. White House lawyers have been preparing for the possibility they may need to argue some material is protected by executive privilege, especially if the report discusses whether the president’s interactions with his top aides or legal advisers are evidence of obstruction of justice. Even though Mr. Mueller’s report is complete, some aspects of his inquiry remain active and may be overseen by the same prosecutors once they are reassigned to their old jobs in the Justice Department. For instance, recently filed court documents suggest that investigators are still examining why the former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort turned over campaign polling data in 2016 to a Russian associate who prosecutors said was tied to Russian intelligence. Mr. Mueller looked extensively at whether Mr. Trump obstructed justice to protect himself or his associates. But despite months of negotiations, prosecutors were unable to personally interview the president. Mr. Trump’s lawyers insisted that he respond only to written questions from the special counsel. Even though under current Justice Department policy, a sitting president cannot be indicted, Mr. Trump’s lawyers worried that his responses in an oral interview could bring political repercussions, including impeachment, or put him in legal jeopardy once he is out of office. transcript Hosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Clare Toeniskoetter, Annie Brown and Theo Balcomb, and edited by Lisa Tobin, with help from Paige Cowett The Mueller report has been sent to the attorney general. Here’s a look at what this means and what comes next. michael barbaro So it’s here. michael schmidt Well, it’s in the hands of Bill Barr. It’s not here in the sense that we can publicly consume it and see what Bob Mueller found. It has just moved from one pocket, which we can’t see into, into another pocket that we can’t see into. michael barbaro But it has moved pockets, at least, which is something. Something we’ve been waiting two years for. michael schmidt Correct. Bob Mueller is done with his investigation. michael barbaro From The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is a special episode of “The Daily.” Today: The Mueller report has been sent to the attorney general. It’s Friday afternoon, March 22. So Mike, talk me through your day today. michael schmidt So knowing it was going to be a big day, I turned on the recorder as soon as I left the house this morning and made my way into the office to hurry up and wait. [music]  michael schmidt All right. 10:05 a.m. michael schmidt I left my house at 10:00 a.m. michael schmidt We expect the report to be finished today around noon. michael schmidt Walking down 17th Street, heading to the office. michael schmidt I got a call from the office from my editor wanting to know what I knew. Told her I knew nothing. Last thing an editor wants to hear — nothing new. michael schmidt Not a ton of people on the streets. speaker Excuse me. michael schmidt Yes? speaker Do you know where the Jamaican Embassy is? michael schmidt I do not, I’m sorry. Do you know what the address is? michael schmidt Was stopped by a woman who couldn’t find the Jamaican embassy. michael schmidt O.K., so you’re going to want to go this way. Go to DuPont Circle, and make a right. Just keep on following that trail. speaker Oh, O.K., so I’m going the wrong way. michael schmidt Well, we’re all going the wrong way. michael schmidt Come up to Massachusetts Avenue. michael schmidt Cold March day. Fairly cold here in Washington. 45 degrees. michael schmidt Just had a normal sort of walk into the office. michael schmidt [HUMMING] Half a block away, coming up to 17th — michael barbaro It doesn’t seem like you’re in a big hurry to get to the office. michael schmidt Well, all the work has been done. We know what’s coming. michael schmidt How are you? speaker Hey, Mike. michael schmidt What’s going on? michael schmidt So come into the building. michael schmidt Big day? No? Not a big day? All right. michael schmidt Get on the elevator. elevator voice announcer Floor seven. michael schmidt Walk into the office. And everyone wants to know — speaker 1 What do you got? What do you got? speaker 2 Chasing the report. michael schmidt When’s it going to happen? speaker This is the question I ask him every five — michael schmidt Days or — speaker Days or weeks. michael schmidt Days or weeks? michael schmidt The whole apparatus of The New York Times is jacked up for this moment. michael schmidt We got Nick here. We’re all ready. speaker Gang’s all here. michael schmidt There’s been a lot of time and planning that’s gone into this. There’s a lot of stories that have been written that are ready to go. speaker Does that seem right? michael schmidt Yep. speaker O.K. michael schmidt Everyone’s sitting around waiting, and they want answers. dean baquet So what’s the latest? michael schmidt Dean Baquet, our executive editor, calls down to Washington to ask Elisabeth Bumiller, our bureau chief, what do you know? elisabeth bumiller You’re not so sure about it? michael schmidt I’m less sure about the timing, but — michael schmidt Elizabeth calls me over to her desk, puts him on speakerphone. Mikey, what do you know? dean baquet Do you know much of a heads-up we may or may not get? michael schmidt My guess is not a lot because I don’t know what there is to get a heads-up on. michael schmidt And I said, I don’t know. michael barbaro [LAUGHS] You tell them that you don’t know. michael schmidt We don’t know! dean baquet O.K. elisabeth bumiller That’s what we got. michael schmidt So that’s all we got. elisabeth bumiller And we have stories ready. Once we get the word from Justice, we just push a button. michael schmidt All the work is done. elisabeth bumiller We’re just tourists hanging around. michael schmidt We’re sort of lemmings at this point. michael schmidt So it’s sort of just having the same unsatisfying conversation with different people throughout the office for several hours while eating doughnuts. michael barbaro [LAUGHS] michael schmidt And then it happens. archived recording The special counsel investigation is over. Special Counsel Robert Mueller has concluded his investigation into Russian election interference and possible coordination with associates of President Donald Trump. That report has been submitted. Now the question is, what happens to it? How much gets released and when? That is up to the new attorney general, Bill Barr. michael barbaro So what do we know at this stage? It is Friday afternoon. What’s our understanding? michael schmidt Our understanding is that the attorney general and his deputies now have a long weekend of reading ahead of them. They have to go through the report, see what’s there, digest it, and then figure out what to do with it. How much of it should be made public, how much of it should be given to Congress, and how much of it should remain secret. michael barbaro Is that really all we know at this point? Is there anything about how this unfolded that tells us anything about the report or what Mueller has found, if he’s decided to bring any charges against any figure in the White House, or how he’s thinking about this? michael schmidt We just know that Mueller is done. There are no more individuals that will be charged by the special counsel’s office in the investigation. If anyone else has gotten caught up in this, they will be indicted by other U.S. attorneys across the country who have absorbed investigations from the special counsel’s office. michael barbaro So the version of the report that will go to Congress and be seen by the public is the version that the attorney general has had a chance to go through and decide which parts should be seen by the larger world and which should not. And that’s still going to take a while for him to figure out. michael schmidt Correct. And it’s a very difficult process, because if there is criminality in regards to the president, it’s a very tricky issue to navigate. The Justice Department has a policy that says the president can’t be indicted. But if the president can’t be indicted, Congress should deal with that behavior. How do you give that information to Congress? It’s not a snap decision you can make — like, O.K., Mueller’s done, this is what he found. Let’s put this in another box and send it to Congress. It’s far trickier. michael barbaro So how does the A.G. make the decision about what to include and what not to include in this report? michael schmidt Barr is in this incredibly difficult spot, because he has to figure out how much information to share with the public and Congress in a way that is enough to leave people convinced that this investigation was done thoroughly and based on following the facts. But he has to protect the president from disclosures about him that the public may be interested in, that his political enemies may want to know, but that has no bearing on the actual criminal investigation that was done. michael barbaro And does how the attorney general handles that balance depend, in your mind, Mike, on what the report from Mueller finds and says and recommends? michael schmidt Yes. If Mueller says the president didn’t break the law, then Barr has to figure out how much information to give to Congress so that Congress takes those findings seriously. The problem is Barr is in a very difficult spot politically, because the Democrats have already concluded the president did something wrong. So if Barr learns from Mueller that there’s no criminality on the president, how does Barr then win over those Democrats and show them that Mueller truly made a decision based on the facts? How much of what the investigation found does he have to give to the Hill? In a normal criminal investigation, all of that information would not become public because the Justice Department would want to protect the individual who they have found did not commit a crime. But this situation is different, because a lot of people do think the president committed a crime. So how do you show the Democrats and the rest of the country that hey, look, this is what Mueller found. He only found X, Y, and Z. And if we wanted to make a case, he would have needed to have uncovered these other things, which he did not. And that’s why we’re confident with his findings. michael barbaro And on the other hand, if Mueller does find criminality and perhaps recommend charges against the president, how does Barr have to proceed? michael schmidt Well, how much of the evidence that Mueller uncovered should go to Congress? What should be told to Congress? Should Congress be told explicitly, look, Mueller believes the president violated these laws, and here’s the evidence to back it up? But what if some of that evidence has been obtained from a grand jury? The Justice Department can’t just hand over grand jury information to Congress. What if the information is classified? They’re not going to want to hand over classified information to Congress. They think Congress leaks like a sieve. michael barbaro Is it safe to say though, Mike, that if criminality is found by Mueller, Congress and the public will see more of the Muller report than if that is not found? michael schmidt Maybe. Maybe. But look, this is a highly unusual situation. The person who runs the executive branch, the president, has just been under investigation by folks inside of his own branch for the past 22 months. Very awkward situation. michael barbaro And the person making the decision about what we all will learn about that investigation is a direct appointee of that president. michael schmidt Correct. Has the job because the president put him there. So the perception here is one where the average person looks at this and says, well, how can a guy who was made attorney general by the president look at this situation and make a decision that is free of politics? And how can I have confidence that this was done based on the facts? michael barbaro So when will we know more? When will we know what the attorney general has decided on that front? michael schmidt Oh, now you want to know more. michael barbaro [LAUGHS] Yes, please. michael schmidt The greed of the news business. michael barbaro If you’ll indulge us. michael schmidt When will we know more? Barr and his deputies will go through this, and I don’t know — sometime in the next few days, sometime in the next few weeks. It may be a difficult process to unbraid. Mueller has been rummaging around the president’s life for 22 months. We don’t have clarity into everything Mueller’s found. What if Barr looks at it and says, eh, Mueller thinks he violated this law and that law. But actually, I don’t think he has it. Maybe there’s not enough there. Maybe Barr disagrees with what Mueller has found, simply on a legal basis. The other thing is that Barr only really gets one shot to get it right. Whatever he goes out the door with in terms of handing over information to Congress, he’s got to have it right. He’s not going to have a second chance to say, well, you know, I gave you that stuff. But like, meh, maybe it’s not what I thought it was. Or, oh, let’s give you more. He has to get it right the first time. Otherwise, he’ll look like he’s waffling. michael barbaro And how much of how Barr handles this will be with a mind toward the expectation that a Democratically controlled House of Representatives is already into a series of investigations that they only want to redouble once this report is in their hands? michael schmidt Barr clearly knows Congress is going to jump up and down until it is satisfied with the information that it wants about this investigation. He can drag that out and probably lose it one way or another, either in the court of public opinion or in the actual courts. So he probably just wants to get it over with as soon as possible. He knows this has been an enormous weight on the country, and that the sooner it is resolved, the sooner the country can move on. michael barbaro And Mike, what is the likelihood that the way we find out more about the Mueller report is not from the version that’s sent to Congress, but from something else? I think we’re all really mindful of the fact that this is the era of the leak, and that this is the biggest potential leak in recent memory. michael schmidt Yeah. michael barbaro Will it leak? michael schmidt I don’t know. I mean, the number of people who will have access to this document will be very small. And they will know that if there are a lot of leaks about this, then the president can start to raise questions about what’s really going on. It will look nefarious. The Democrats will get their backs up and say, well, if this stuff is leaking out, why can’t we have access to it? They will know that their lives will be much more difficult if there are leaks here. Obviously, you could come up with a scenario where someone working on the investigation is frustrated that the Justice Department has decided to go one way or the other on the report, and they think, ah, screw it, I’m going to make this public. But my guess is they have gone to great lengths to ensure that this is heavily protected. michael barbaro So now we wait again. michael schmidt Hurry up and wait. michael barbaro Mike, thank you very much. michael schmidt Thanks for having me. michael barbaro In a letter to Democratic and Republican leaders of Congress sent on Friday afternoon, Attorney General William Barr said he would brief them on the major conclusions of the special counsel’s report as soon as this weekend. On Friday evening, The Times reported that Mueller is not recommending any new charges against President Trump or anyone else around him. That’s it for “The Daily.” I’m Michael Barbaro. See you on Monday. Mr. Trump has helped make Mr. Mueller a household name, attacking his investigation an average of about twice a day as an unfair, politically motivated attempt to invalidate his election. He never forgave former Attorney General Jeff Sessions for recusing himself from the Russia inquiry, an action that cleared the way for his deputy, Mr. Rosenstein, to appoint Mr. Mueller. Mr. Trump reiterated his attacks on the special counsel this week, saying Mr. Mueller decided “out of the blue” to write a report, ignoring that regulations require him to do so. But the president also said the report should be made public because of “tens of millions” of Americans would want to know what it contains. “Let people see it,” Mr. Trump said. “There was no collusion. There was no obstruction. There was no nothing.” In court, the evidence amassed by the Mueller team has held up. Every defendant who is not still awaiting trial either pleaded guilty or was convicted by a jury. Although no American has been charged with illegally plotting with the Russians to tilt the election, Mr. Mueller uncovered a web of lies by former Trump aides. Five of them were found to have deceived federal investigators or Congress about their interactions with Russians during the campaign or the transition. They include Mr. Manafort; Michael T. Flynn, the president’s first national security adviser; and Michael D. Cohen, Mr. Trump’s former lawyer and longtime fixer. A sixth former adviser, Roger J. Stone Jr., is to stand trial in November on charges of lying to Congress. Those who know Mr. Mueller, a former F.B.I. director, had predicted a concise, legalistic report devoid of opinions — nothing like the 445-page treatise that Ken Starr, who investigated President Bill Clinton, produced in 1998. Operating under a now-defunct statute that governed independent counsels, Mr. Starr had far more leeway than Mr. Mueller to set his own investigative boundaries and to render judgments. Here are some pieces of the jigsaw puzzle. The full picture is missing. [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] The regulations that governed Mr. Mueller, who is under the supervision of the Justice Department, only required him to explain his decisions to either seek or decline to seek criminal charges in a confidential report to the attorney general. The attorney general was then required to notify the leadership of the House and Senate judiciary committees. Despite pledging transparency, Mr. Barr may be reluctant to release the part of Mr. Mueller’s report that may be of most interest: whom the special counsel declined to prosecute and why, especially if Mr. Trump is on that list. The department’s longstanding practice, with rare exceptions, is not to identify people who were merely investigative targets to avoid unfairly tainting their reputations, especially because they would have no chance to defend themselves in a court of law. Mr. Rosenstein, who has overseen Mr. Mueller’s work and may have a say in what is released, is a firm believer in that principle. In a May 2017 letter that the president seized upon as justification for his decision to fire James B. Comey as F.B.I. director, Mr. Rosenstein severely criticized Mr. Comey for announcing during the previous year that Hillary Clinton, then a presidential candidate, would not be charged with a crime for mishandling classified information as secretary of state. Releasing “derogatory information about the subject of a declined criminal investigation,” Mr. Rosenstein wrote, is “a textbook example of what federal prosecutors and agents are taught not to do.” Weighing that principle against the public’s right to know is even more fraught in the president’s case. If Mr. Mueller declined to pursue criminal charges against Mr. Trump, he might have been guided not by lack of evidence, but by the Justice Department’s legal opinions that a sitting president cannot be indicted. The department’s Office of Legal Counsel has repeatedly advised that the stigma and burden of being under prosecution would damage the president’s ability to lead. Representative Jerrold Nadler, Democrat of New York and the head of the House Judiciary Committee, has argued that the department’s view that presidents are protected from prosecution makes it all the more important for the public to see Mr. Mueller’s report. “To maintain that a sitting president cannot be indicted, and then to withhold evidence of wrongdoing from Congress because the president cannot be charged, is to convert D.O.J. policy into the means for a cover-up,” he said before the House approved its nonbinding resolution to disclose the special counsel’s findings. Some predict that any disclosures from Mr. Mueller’s report will satisfy neither Mr. Trump’s critics nor his defenders, especially given the public’s high expectations for answers. A Washington Post-Schar School poll in February illustrated the sharp divide in public opinion: It found that of those surveyed, most Republicans did not believe evidence of crimes that Mr. Mueller’s team had already proved in court, while most Democrats believed he had proved crimes that he had not even claimed. Nicholas Fandos contributed reporting. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.  OpinionThe Editorial Board 

Supported by By Sharon LaFraniere and Katie Benner WASHINGTON — The special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, on Friday delivered a report on his inquiry into Russian interference in the 2016 election to Attorney General William P. Barr, bringing to a close an investigation that has consumed the nation and cast a shadow over President Trump for nearly two years. Mr. Barr told congressional leaders in a letter that he may brief them on the special counsel’s “principal conclusions” as early as this weekend, a surprisingly fast turnaround for a report anticipated for months. The attorney general said he “remained committed to as much transparency as possible.” In an apparent endorsement of an investigation that Mr. Trump has relentlessly attacked as a “witch hunt,” Mr. Barr said Justice Department officials never had to intervene to keep Mr. Mueller from taking an inappropriate or unwarranted step. The department’s regulations would have required Mr. Barr to inform the leaders of the House and Senate Judiciary committees about any such interventions in his letter. A senior Justice Department official said that Mr. Mueller would not recommend new indictments, a statement aimed at ending speculation that Mr. Trump or other key figures might be charged down the line. With department officials emphasizing that Mr. Mueller’s inquiry was over and his office closing, the question for both Mr. Trump’s critics and defenders was whether the prosecutors condemned the president’s behavior in their report, exonerated him — or neither. The president’s lawyers were already girding for a possible fight over whether they could assert executive privilege to keep parts of the report secret. [Update: Read Attorney General William Barr’s summary of the Mueller Report.] Since Mr. Mueller’s appointment in May 2017, his team has focused on how Russian operatives sought to sway the outcome of the 2016 presidential race and whether anyone tied to the Trump campaign, wittingly or unwittingly, cooperated with them. While the inquiry, started months earlier by the F.B.I., unearthed a far-ranging Russian influence operation, no public evidence emerged that the president or his aides illegally assisted it. Nonetheless, the damage to Mr. Trump and those in his circle has been extensive. A half-dozen former Trump aides were indicted or convicted of crimes, mostly for lying to federal investigators or Congress. Others remain under investigation in cases that Mr. Mueller’s office handed off to federal prosecutors in New York and elsewhere. Dozens of Russian intelligence officers or citizens, along with three Russian companies, were charged in cases that are likely to languish in court because the defendants cannot be extradited to the United States. Republicans immediately seized upon the news that no more indictments are expected as a vindication of Mr. Trump and his campaign. Those reports “confirm what we’ve known all along: There was never any collusion with Russia,” Representative Steve Scalise of Louisiana, the second-highest-ranking House Republican, said in a statement. Democrats, including some of those hoping to supplant Mr. Trump in the White House in the 2020 election, insisted that Mr. Mueller’s full report be made public, including the underlying evidence. In a joint statement, Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California and Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the top Senate Democrat, warned Mr. Barr not to allow the White House a “sneak preview” of the document. “The White House must not be allowed to interfere in decisions about what parts of those findings or evidence are made public,” they said. Not since Watergate has a special prosecutor’s inquiry so mesmerized the American public. Polls have shown that most Americans want to know its findings, and the House unanimously passed a nonbinding resolution to publicize the report. Mr. Barr’s letter said he would decide what to release after consulting with Mr. Mueller and Rod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general who has overseen his investigation. Justice Department officials emphasized that the White House had been kept at a distance. Only a handful of law enforcement officials have seen the report, said Kerri Kupec, a department spokeswoman. More than two years of criminal indictments and steady revelations about Trump campaign contacts with Russians reveal the scope of the special counsel investigation. Although a White House lawyer was notified that Mr. Mueller had delivered it to Mr. Barr, no White House official has seen the report or been briefed on it, according to Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary. “The next steps are up to Attorney General Barr, and we look forward to the process taking its course,” she said. Rudolph W. Giuliani, one of the president’s personal lawyers, said he planned to remain in Washington over the weekend in part because Mr. Barr might update Congress on Mr. Mueller’s findings. He sidestepped a question about whether the president’s lawyers were seeking to review the report before any of it becomes public. White House lawyers have been preparing for the possibility they may need to argue some material is protected by executive privilege, especially if the report discusses whether the president’s interactions with his top aides or legal advisers are evidence of obstruction of justice. Even though Mr. Mueller’s report is complete, some aspects of his inquiry remain active and may be overseen by the same prosecutors once they are reassigned to their old jobs in the Justice Department. For instance, recently filed court documents suggest that investigators are still examining why the former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort turned over campaign polling data in 2016 to a Russian associate who prosecutors said was tied to Russian intelligence. Mr. Mueller looked extensively at whether Mr. Trump obstructed justice to protect himself or his associates. But despite months of negotiations, prosecutors were unable to personally interview the president. Mr. Trump’s lawyers insisted that he respond only to written questions from the special counsel. Even though under current Justice Department policy, a sitting president cannot be indicted, Mr. Trump’s lawyers worried that his responses in an oral interview could bring political repercussions, including impeachment, or put him in legal jeopardy once he is out of office. transcript Hosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Clare Toeniskoetter, Annie Brown and Theo Balcomb, and edited by Lisa Tobin, with help from Paige Cowett The Mueller report has been sent to the attorney general. Here’s a look at what this means and what comes next. michael barbaro So it’s here. michael schmidt Well, it’s in the hands of Bill Barr. It’s not here in the sense that we can publicly consume it and see what Bob Mueller found. It has just moved from one pocket, which we can’t see into, into another pocket that we can’t see into. michael barbaro But it has moved pockets, at least, which is something. Something we’ve been waiting two years for. michael schmidt Correct. Bob Mueller is done with his investigation. michael barbaro From The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is a special episode of “The Daily.” Today: The Mueller report has been sent to the attorney general. It’s Friday afternoon, March 22. So Mike, talk me through your day today. michael schmidt So knowing it was going to be a big day, I turned on the recorder as soon as I left the house this morning and made my way into the office to hurry up and wait. [music]  michael schmidt All right. 10:05 a.m. michael schmidt I left my house at 10:00 a.m. michael schmidt We expect the report to be finished today around noon. michael schmidt Walking down 17th Street, heading to the office. michael schmidt I got a call from the office from my editor wanting to know what I knew. Told her I knew nothing. Last thing an editor wants to hear — nothing new. michael schmidt Not a ton of people on the streets. speaker Excuse me. michael schmidt Yes? speaker Do you know where the Jamaican Embassy is? michael schmidt I do not, I’m sorry. Do you know what the address is? michael schmidt Was stopped by a woman who couldn’t find the Jamaican embassy. michael schmidt O.K., so you’re going to want to go this way. Go to DuPont Circle, and make a right. Just keep on following that trail. speaker Oh, O.K., so I’m going the wrong way. michael schmidt Well, we’re all going the wrong way. michael schmidt Come up to Massachusetts Avenue. michael schmidt Cold March day. Fairly cold here in Washington. 45 degrees. michael schmidt Just had a normal sort of walk into the office. michael schmidt [HUMMING] Half a block away, coming up to 17th — michael barbaro It doesn’t seem like you’re in a big hurry to get to the office. michael schmidt Well, all the work has been done. We know what’s coming. michael schmidt How are you? speaker Hey, Mike. michael schmidt What’s going on? michael schmidt So come into the building. michael schmidt Big day? No? Not a big day? All right. michael schmidt Get on the elevator. elevator voice announcer Floor seven. michael schmidt Walk into the office. And everyone wants to know — speaker 1 What do you got? What do you got? speaker 2 Chasing the report. michael schmidt When’s it going to happen? speaker This is the question I ask him every five — michael schmidt Days or — speaker Days or weeks. michael schmidt Days or weeks? michael schmidt The whole apparatus of The New York Times is jacked up for this moment. michael schmidt We got Nick here. We’re all ready. speaker Gang’s all here. michael schmidt There’s been a lot of time and planning that’s gone into this. There’s a lot of stories that have been written that are ready to go. speaker Does that seem right? michael schmidt Yep. speaker O.K. michael schmidt Everyone’s sitting around waiting, and they want answers. dean baquet So what’s the latest? michael schmidt Dean Baquet, our executive editor, calls down to Washington to ask Elisabeth Bumiller, our bureau chief, what do you know? elisabeth bumiller You’re not so sure about it? michael schmidt I’m less sure about the timing, but — michael schmidt Elizabeth calls me over to her desk, puts him on speakerphone. Mikey, what do you know? dean baquet Do you know much of a heads-up we may or may not get? michael schmidt My guess is not a lot because I don’t know what there is to get a heads-up on. michael schmidt And I said, I don’t know. michael barbaro [LAUGHS] You tell them that you don’t know. michael schmidt We don’t know! dean baquet O.K. elisabeth bumiller That’s what we got. michael schmidt So that’s all we got. elisabeth bumiller And we have stories ready. Once we get the word from Justice, we just push a button. michael schmidt All the work is done. elisabeth bumiller We’re just tourists hanging around. michael schmidt We’re sort of lemmings at this point. michael schmidt So it’s sort of just having the same unsatisfying conversation with different people throughout the office for several hours while eating doughnuts. michael barbaro [LAUGHS] michael schmidt And then it happens. archived recording The special counsel investigation is over. Special Counsel Robert Mueller has concluded his investigation into Russian election interference and possible coordination with associates of President Donald Trump. That report has been submitted. Now the question is, what happens to it? How much gets released and when? That is up to the new attorney general, Bill Barr. michael barbaro So what do we know at this stage? It is Friday afternoon. What’s our understanding? michael schmidt Our understanding is that the attorney general and his deputies now have a long weekend of reading ahead of them. They have to go through the report, see what’s there, digest it, and then figure out what to do with it. How much of it should be made public, how much of it should be given to Congress, and how much of it should remain secret. michael barbaro Is that really all we know at this point? Is there anything about how this unfolded that tells us anything about the report or what Mueller has found, if he’s decided to bring any charges against any figure in the White House, or how he’s thinking about this? michael schmidt We just know that Mueller is done. There are no more individuals that will be charged by the special counsel’s office in the investigation. If anyone else has gotten caught up in this, they will be indicted by other U.S. attorneys across the country who have absorbed investigations from the special counsel’s office. michael barbaro So the version of the report that will go to Congress and be seen by the public is the version that the attorney general has had a chance to go through and decide which parts should be seen by the larger world and which should not. And that’s still going to take a while for him to figure out. michael schmidt Correct. And it’s a very difficult process, because if there is criminality in regards to the president, it’s a very tricky issue to navigate. The Justice Department has a policy that says the president can’t be indicted. But if the president can’t be indicted, Congress should deal with that behavior. How do you give that information to Congress? It’s not a snap decision you can make — like, O.K., Mueller’s done, this is what he found. Let’s put this in another box and send it to Congress. It’s far trickier. michael barbaro So how does the A.G. make the decision about what to include and what not to include in this report? michael schmidt Barr is in this incredibly difficult spot, because he has to figure out how much information to share with the public and Congress in a way that is enough to leave people convinced that this investigation was done thoroughly and based on following the facts. But he has to protect the president from disclosures about him that the public may be interested in, that his political enemies may want to know, but that has no bearing on the actual criminal investigation that was done. michael barbaro And does how the attorney general handles that balance depend, in your mind, Mike, on what the report from Mueller finds and says and recommends? michael schmidt Yes. If Mueller says the president didn’t break the law, then Barr has to figure out how much information to give to Congress so that Congress takes those findings seriously. The problem is Barr is in a very difficult spot politically, because the Democrats have already concluded the president did something wrong. So if Barr learns from Mueller that there’s no criminality on the president, how does Barr then win over those Democrats and show them that Mueller truly made a decision based on the facts? How much of what the investigation found does he have to give to the Hill? In a normal criminal investigation, all of that information would not become public because the Justice Department would want to protect the individual who they have found did not commit a crime. But this situation is different, because a lot of people do think the president committed a crime. So how do you show the Democrats and the rest of the country that hey, look, this is what Mueller found. He only found X, Y, and Z. And if we wanted to make a case, he would have needed to have uncovered these other things, which he did not. And that’s why we’re confident with his findings. michael barbaro And on the other hand, if Mueller does find criminality and perhaps recommend charges against the president, how does Barr have to proceed? michael schmidt Well, how much of the evidence that Mueller uncovered should go to Congress? What should be told to Congress? Should Congress be told explicitly, look, Mueller believes the president violated these laws, and here’s the evidence to back it up? But what if some of that evidence has been obtained from a grand jury? The Justice Department can’t just hand over grand jury information to Congress. What if the information is classified? They’re not going to want to hand over classified information to Congress. They think Congress leaks like a sieve. michael barbaro Is it safe to say though, Mike, that if criminality is found by Mueller, Congress and the public will see more of the Muller report than if that is not found? michael schmidt Maybe. Maybe. But look, this is a highly unusual situation. The person who runs the executive branch, the president, has just been under investigation by folks inside of his own branch for the past 22 months. Very awkward situation. michael barbaro And the person making the decision about what we all will learn about that investigation is a direct appointee of that president. michael schmidt Correct. Has the job because the president put him there. So the perception here is one where the average person looks at this and says, well, how can a guy who was made attorney general by the president look at this situation and make a decision that is free of politics? And how can I have confidence that this was done based on the facts? michael barbaro So when will we know more? When will we know what the attorney general has decided on that front? michael schmidt Oh, now you want to know more. michael barbaro [LAUGHS] Yes, please. michael schmidt The greed of the news business. michael barbaro If you’ll indulge us. michael schmidt When will we know more? Barr and his deputies will go through this, and I don’t know — sometime in the next few days, sometime in the next few weeks. It may be a difficult process to unbraid. Mueller has been rummaging around the president’s life for 22 months. We don’t have clarity into everything Mueller’s found. What if Barr looks at it and says, eh, Mueller thinks he violated this law and that law. But actually, I don’t think he has it. Maybe there’s not enough there. Maybe Barr disagrees with what Mueller has found, simply on a legal basis. The other thing is that Barr only really gets one shot to get it right. Whatever he goes out the door with in terms of handing over information to Congress, he’s got to have it right. He’s not going to have a second chance to say, well, you know, I gave you that stuff. But like, meh, maybe it’s not what I thought it was. Or, oh, let’s give you more. He has to get it right the first time. Otherwise, he’ll look like he’s waffling. michael barbaro And how much of how Barr handles this will be with a mind toward the expectation that a Democratically controlled House of Representatives is already into a series of investigations that they only want to redouble once this report is in their hands? michael schmidt Barr clearly knows Congress is going to jump up and down until it is satisfied with the information that it wants about this investigation. He can drag that out and probably lose it one way or another, either in the court of public opinion or in the actual courts. So he probably just wants to get it over with as soon as possible. He knows this has been an enormous weight on the country, and that the sooner it is resolved, the sooner the country can move on. michael barbaro And Mike, what is the likelihood that the way we find out more about the Mueller report is not from the version that’s sent to Congress, but from something else? I think we’re all really mindful of the fact that this is the era of the leak, and that this is the biggest potential leak in recent memory. michael schmidt Yeah. michael barbaro Will it leak? michael schmidt I don’t know. I mean, the number of people who will have access to this document will be very small. And they will know that if there are a lot of leaks about this, then the president can start to raise questions about what’s really going on. It will look nefarious. The Democrats will get their backs up and say, well, if this stuff is leaking out, why can’t we have access to it? They will know that their lives will be much more difficult if there are leaks here. Obviously, you could come up with a scenario where someone working on the investigation is frustrated that the Justice Department has decided to go one way or the other on the report, and they think, ah, screw it, I’m going to make this public. But my guess is they have gone to great lengths to ensure that this is heavily protected. michael barbaro So now we wait again. michael schmidt Hurry up and wait. michael barbaro Mike, thank you very much. michael schmidt Thanks for having me. michael barbaro In a letter to Democratic and Republican leaders of Congress sent on Friday afternoon, Attorney General William Barr said he would brief them on the major conclusions of the special counsel’s report as soon as this weekend. On Friday evening, The Times reported that Mueller is not recommending any new charges against President Trump or anyone else around him. That’s it for “The Daily.” I’m Michael Barbaro. See you on Monday. Mr. Trump has helped make Mr. Mueller a household name, attacking his investigation an average of about twice a day as an unfair, politically motivated attempt to invalidate his election. He never forgave former Attorney General Jeff Sessions for recusing himself from the Russia inquiry, an action that cleared the way for his deputy, Mr. Rosenstein, to appoint Mr. Mueller. Mr. Trump reiterated his attacks on the special counsel this week, saying Mr. Mueller decided “out of the blue” to write a report, ignoring that regulations require him to do so. But the president also said the report should be made public because of “tens of millions” of Americans would want to know what it contains. “Let people see it,” Mr. Trump said. “There was no collusion. There was no obstruction. There was no nothing.” In court, the evidence amassed by the Mueller team has held up. Every defendant who is not still awaiting trial either pleaded guilty or was convicted by a jury. Although no American has been charged with illegally plotting with the Russians to tilt the election, Mr. Mueller uncovered a web of lies by former Trump aides. Five of them were found to have deceived federal investigators or Congress about their interactions with Russians during the campaign or the transition. They include Mr. Manafort; Michael T. Flynn, the president’s first national security adviser; and Michael D. Cohen, Mr. Trump’s former lawyer and longtime fixer. A sixth former adviser, Roger J. Stone Jr., is to stand trial in November on charges of lying to Congress. Those who know Mr. Mueller, a former F.B.I. director, had predicted a concise, legalistic report devoid of opinions — nothing like the 445-page treatise that Ken Starr, who investigated President Bill Clinton, produced in 1998. Operating under a now-defunct statute that governed independent counsels, Mr. Starr had far more leeway than Mr. Mueller to set his own investigative boundaries and to render judgments. Here are some pieces of the jigsaw puzzle. The full picture is missing. [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] The regulations that governed Mr. Mueller, who is under the supervision of the Justice Department, only required him to explain his decisions to either seek or decline to seek criminal charges in a confidential report to the attorney general. The attorney general was then required to notify the leadership of the House and Senate judiciary committees. Despite pledging transparency, Mr. Barr may be reluctant to release the part of Mr. Mueller’s report that may be of most interest: whom the special counsel declined to prosecute and why, especially if Mr. Trump is on that list. The department’s longstanding practice, with rare exceptions, is not to identify people who were merely investigative targets to avoid unfairly tainting their reputations, especially because they would have no chance to defend themselves in a court of law. Mr. Rosenstein, who has overseen Mr. Mueller’s work and may have a say in what is released, is a firm believer in that principle. In a May 2017 letter that the president seized upon as justification for his decision to fire James B. Comey as F.B.I. director, Mr. Rosenstein severely criticized Mr. Comey for announcing during the previous year that Hillary Clinton, then a presidential candidate, would not be charged with a crime for mishandling classified information as secretary of state. Releasing “derogatory information about the subject of a declined criminal investigation,” Mr. Rosenstein wrote, is “a textbook example of what federal prosecutors and agents are taught not to do.” Weighing that principle against the public’s right to know is even more fraught in the president’s case. If Mr. Mueller declined to pursue criminal charges against Mr. Trump, he might have been guided not by lack of evidence, but by the Justice Department’s legal opinions that a sitting president cannot be indicted. The department’s Office of Legal Counsel has repeatedly advised that the stigma and burden of being under prosecution would damage the president’s ability to lead. Representative Jerrold Nadler, Democrat of New York and the head of the House Judiciary Committee, has argued that the department’s view that presidents are protected from prosecution makes it all the more important for the public to see Mr. Mueller’s report. “To maintain that a sitting president cannot be indicted, and then to withhold evidence of wrongdoing from Congress because the president cannot be charged, is to convert D.O.J. policy into the means for a cover-up,” he said before the House approved its nonbinding resolution to disclose the special counsel’s findings. Some predict that any disclosures from Mr. Mueller’s report will satisfy neither Mr. Trump’s critics nor his defenders, especially given the public’s high expectations for answers. A Washington Post-Schar School poll in February illustrated the sharp divide in public opinion: It found that of those surveyed, most Republicans did not believe evidence of crimes that Mr. Mueller’s team had already proved in court, while most Democrats believed he had proved crimes that he had not even claimed. Nicholas Fandos contributed reporting. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.  OpinionThe Editorial Board Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — Eager to jump-start the stalled Keystone XL oil pipeline and other energy projects, President Donald Trump has acted to assert executive power over pipelines and such infrastructure. He issued a new permit for Keystone XL and insisted this exercise of presidential authority was not subject to judicial review. Then he signed an executive order clarifying that the president alone has the power to grant permits for cross-border projects such as pipelines. A separate order makes it harder for states to block pipelines and other energy projects on the basis of environmental concerns. Taken together, the actions amount to a broad assertion of power that reverses more than 50 years of precedent that delegated decision-making on energy projects to individual agencies. Trump has shown a willingness to override his own agencies to accomplish his aims. His actions, if upheld by the courts, could consolidate power over energy projects at the White House, increasing the influence of the president's political advisers and potentially cutting out experts and career officials throughout the government. "Too often badly needed energy infrastructure is being held back by special interest groups, entrenched bureaucracies and radical activists," Trump said Wednesday before signing the executive orders at an event in Texas. Pipeline opponents say Trump acted illegally. They have asked a federal court to block the new Keystone permit, arguing that it is an effort to get around an earlier court ruling. But one legal expert said Trump's approach might succeed. "He has now created a whole new decision-making structure" for cross-border pipelines, said Richard Pierce, a law professor at George Washington University. If the courts follow a 1992 Supreme Court ruling, they may find that action taken by the State Department in approving or rejecting the pipeline "is nonreviewable, because it doesn't qualify as final agency action," Pierce said. Further, Trump's decision would not be subject to review because of a separate law that declares the president is not an agency and therefore is not bound by rules that apply to agency actions. "That's a very clever approach that might well work," Pierce said. Trump's actions are "typical of this presidency," said Holly Doremus, an environmental law professor at the University of California, Berkeley. She said Trump frequently seeks to stretch the limits of his power, and she cited Trump's declaration of an emergency that he says allows him to shift more money to construction of a promised wall along the U.S.-Mexico border. In the case of Keystone, Trump appears to be arguing that the new presidential permit, issued March 29, gets around restrictions under the National Environmental Policy Act or other laws, because the statutes apply to executive-branch agencies but not to the president, Doremus said. "If the president is the only discretionary decision maker, NEPA simply does not apply," she said. While Trump's theory is plausible, it is unclear who is the ultimate decision-maker on Keystone XL, Doremus said. The pipeline would ship crude oil from the tar sands of western Canada to U.S. refineries along the Gulf of Mexico. Both a 2015 rejection of the project by the Obama administration and a 2017 approval by Trump were issued by the State Department under terms of a 2004 executive order that delegated presidential authority for cross-border projects to that agency. Trump's executive order revokes the 2004 order, issued by President George W. Bush. Bush's action extended an executive order first issued by President Lyndon B. Johnson in 1968. "It's surprising that the president would come in and single-handedly try to circumvent 50 years of precedent for these types of projects by just issuing a permit himself," said Doug Hayes, a Sierra Club attorney who has sued to block the Keystone project in court. In November, U.S. District Judge Brian Morris in Montana ruled that the Trump administration did not fully consider potential oil spills and other impacts when it approved the pipeline in 2017. Morris ordered a new environmental review of the pipeline. The White House said the new permit issued by Trump "dispels any uncertainty" about the long-delayed project, which was first proposed a decade ago by Calgary-based TransCanada. Trump's move on Keystone XL reinforces the idea that "the presidential permit is indeed an exercise of presidential authority that is not subject to judicial review," according to the White House. Under the new order, federal officials still would conduct environmental reviews of the project, but they would be carried out by agencies other than the State Department, the White House said. TransCanada spokesman Matthew John said the administration's action "clearly demonstrates to the courts that the permit is (the) product of presidential decision-making and should not be subject to additional environmental review." Carl Tobias, a law professor at the University of Richmond, said it was "strange" that Trump issued the executive order after granting the new permit. "The White House is making the argument supposedly that he has untrammeled authority and doesn't have to obey the laws of Congress" in approving a cross-border pipeline, Tobias said. "I'm dubious and I think a number of other people are, too." Kathryn Watts, a law professor at the University of Washington, said it's unclear what happens next. Trump's permit wades into "uncharted, unsettled" legal territory, she said. ___ Associated Press writer Matthew Brown in Billings, Montana, contributed to this report.

Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — Eager to jump-start the stalled Keystone XL oil pipeline and other energy projects, President Donald Trump has acted to assert executive power over pipelines and such infrastructure. He issued a new permit for Keystone XL and insisted this exercise of presidential authority was not subject to judicial review. Then he signed an executive order clarifying that the president alone has the power to grant permits for cross-border projects such as pipelines. A separate order makes it harder for states to block pipelines and other energy projects on the basis of environmental concerns. Taken together, the actions amount to a broad assertion of power that reverses more than 50 years of precedent that delegated decision-making on energy projects to individual agencies. Trump has shown a willingness to override his own agencies to accomplish his aims. His actions, if upheld by the courts, could consolidate power over energy projects at the White House, increasing the influence of the president's political advisers and potentially cutting out experts and career officials throughout the government. "Too often badly needed energy infrastructure is being held back by special interest groups, entrenched bureaucracies and radical activists," Trump said Wednesday before signing the executive orders at an event in Texas. Pipeline opponents say Trump acted illegally. They have asked a federal court to block the new Keystone permit, arguing that it is an effort to get around an earlier court ruling. But one legal expert said Trump's approach might succeed. "He has now created a whole new decision-making structure" for cross-border pipelines, said Richard Pierce, a law professor at George Washington University. If the courts follow a 1992 Supreme Court ruling, they may find that action taken by the State Department in approving or rejecting the pipeline "is nonreviewable, because it doesn't qualify as final agency action," Pierce said. Further, Trump's decision would not be subject to review because of a separate law that declares the president is not an agency and therefore is not bound by rules that apply to agency actions. "That's a very clever approach that might well work," Pierce said. Trump's actions are "typical of this presidency," said Holly Doremus, an environmental law professor at the University of California, Berkeley. She said Trump frequently seeks to stretch the limits of his power, and she cited Trump's declaration of an emergency that he says allows him to shift more money to construction of a promised wall along the U.S.-Mexico border. In the case of Keystone, Trump appears to be arguing that the new presidential permit, issued March 29, gets around restrictions under the National Environmental Policy Act or other laws, because the statutes apply to executive-branch agencies but not to the president, Doremus said. "If the president is the only discretionary decision maker, NEPA simply does not apply," she said. While Trump's theory is plausible, it is unclear who is the ultimate decision-maker on Keystone XL, Doremus said. The pipeline would ship crude oil from the tar sands of western Canada to U.S. refineries along the Gulf of Mexico. Both a 2015 rejection of the project by the Obama administration and a 2017 approval by Trump were issued by the State Department under terms of a 2004 executive order that delegated presidential authority for cross-border projects to that agency. Trump's executive order revokes the 2004 order, issued by President George W. Bush. Bush's action extended an executive order first issued by President Lyndon B. Johnson in 1968. "It's surprising that the president would come in and single-handedly try to circumvent 50 years of precedent for these types of projects by just issuing a permit himself," said Doug Hayes, a Sierra Club attorney who has sued to block the Keystone project in court. In November, U.S. District Judge Brian Morris in Montana ruled that the Trump administration did not fully consider potential oil spills and other impacts when it approved the pipeline in 2017. Morris ordered a new environmental review of the pipeline. The White House said the new permit issued by Trump "dispels any uncertainty" about the long-delayed project, which was first proposed a decade ago by Calgary-based TransCanada. Trump's move on Keystone XL reinforces the idea that "the presidential permit is indeed an exercise of presidential authority that is not subject to judicial review," according to the White House. Under the new order, federal officials still would conduct environmental reviews of the project, but they would be carried out by agencies other than the State Department, the White House said. TransCanada spokesman Matthew John said the administration's action "clearly demonstrates to the courts that the permit is (the) product of presidential decision-making and should not be subject to additional environmental review." Carl Tobias, a law professor at the University of Richmond, said it was "strange" that Trump issued the executive order after granting the new permit. "The White House is making the argument supposedly that he has untrammeled authority and doesn't have to obey the laws of Congress" in approving a cross-border pipeline, Tobias said. "I'm dubious and I think a number of other people are, too." Kathryn Watts, a law professor at the University of Washington, said it's unclear what happens next. Trump's permit wades into "uncharted, unsettled" legal territory, she said. ___ Associated Press writer Matthew Brown in Billings, Montana, contributed to this report.Supported by By The Associated Press ADDIS ABABA, Ethiopia — Far from the din of Washington, Ivanka Trump toured businesses run by women in Ethiopia on Sunday while promoting a White House global economic program for women. President Donald Trump's daughter and senior adviser visited a coffee shop and textile company in Addis Ababa. It was her first stop in Africa on a four-day trip to Ethiopia and Ivory Coast on behalf of a White House project intended to boost 50 million women in developing countries by 2025. Aiming to offer assistance and learn about the struggles of women in business, she took part in a traditional coffee ceremony, visited with weavers and announced new financial support for businesses. "Investing in women is smart development policy and it's smart business," Trump said, sitting in Dumerso Coffee, a dimly lighted space with a woven ceiling, tile floor and colorful paintings. Alongside were women who work in the industry. "It's also in our security interest, because women, when we're empowered, foster peace and stability," she said. This is Ivanka Trump's first visit to Africa since the president launched the Women's Global Development and Prosperity Initiative. It's a program she hopes will outlast an administration better known for "America First" isolationism. She has drawn praise for taking on this project and for making the trip. But thousands of miles from Washington, she is sure to be shadowed by her father's efforts to cut international aid, as well as his past disparaging comments about Africa. Ivanka Trump arrived in Ethiopia early Sunday, flying commercial. She first visited the coffee shop and then went to the textile and craft manufacturer Muya, where she was greeted by dancers and chatted with women seated at colorful looms. She took a seat at one herself. She also noted that she was in the country with Africa's second-highest population. "Ethiopia's success is Africa's success," she said. "We learned today that the quality of the coffee is second to none. You shared with me that Ethiopian cotton rivals cotton anywhere in the world. And then of course the skills and the craftsmanship of the Ethiopian people. We hope more people realize their full potential." Ivanka Trump was accompanied by Mark Green, administrator of the U.S. Agency for International Development, and David Bohigian, the acting president of the Overseas Private Investment Corp., which provides loans, loan guarantees and political risk insurance, funding projects that stretch across continents and industries. OPIC, working with Ivanka Trump, last year announced a project geared at women. At the coffee shop they announced a loan, issued by a local women-focused bank and backed by USAID, for a coffee business owned by women. At Muya, they announced additional OPIC financing. Later in the trip, she plans to meet with Ethiopian President Sahle-Work Zewde and Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed. In Ivory Coast, she will visit a cocoa farm and participate in a meeting on economic opportunities for women in West Africa. That gathering is part of the World Bank's Women Entrepreneurs Finance Initiative, a program that Ivanka Trump pushed the bank to introduce. She will be joined in Ivory Coast by a U.S. congressional delegation that will include U.S. Sen. Lindsey Graham, a close ally of the White House. Reaction to the visit reflected the contradictions of Ivanka Trump's role. Activist Marakie Tesfaye, who founded a group in Ethiopia for women, welcomed the attention. "I think she's coming genuinely to empower women and it's good that she's coming because she will push forward our agenda," she said. Ethiopian journalist Sisay Woubshet was more skeptical, citing Donald Trump's past comments. "I don't think people will have a good feeling about his daughter's visit this time around to promote her global initiative towards women." For Ivanka Trump, those challenges come with the territory. She has spent two years promoting a family-friendly agenda in an administration focused on hard-line immigration tactics and protectionist trade policies. To questions about international aid spending, she has said the administration strives to be generous in a "fiscally responsible way," and has argued that investing in her project, which builds on previous White House efforts, is a way to promote security in developing countries. The new global women's initiative involves the U.S. State Department, the U.S. National Security Council and other American agencies. It aims to assist women in developing countries with job training, financial support and legal or regulatory reforms. Money for the effort will come through USAID, which initially set up a $50 million fund using dollars already budgeted. The president's 2020 budget proposal requests an additional $100 million for the initiative, which will also be supported by programs across the government as well as private investment. Experts praised the government-wide approach, which will incorporate new and existing programs, though some stressed that it was early in the process. The investment comes as the president is proposing cuts to foreign aid, and as the administration is expanding a ban on U.S. aid to groups that promote or provide abortions. "The part of the proposal which is around looking at laws — that is a good thing to focus on," said Charles Kenny, a senior fellow at the Center for Global Development, referencing the initiative's support for changing laws, regulations and customs that create barriers preventing women from fully participating in the workforce. But he said the abortion-related ban could have a negative economic impact. "I think one of the most powerful tools for women's economic empowerment is the ability to choose when and how many children they have," Kenny said. Daniel Runde of the Center for Strategic and International Studies said Ivanka Trump was strategically building on the work of past administrations. He called her an effective "goodwill ambassador" for the issues and a smart emissary to send to Africa. Hillary Clinton, as U.S. secretary of state, "provided high-level attention to these issues," said Runde, who previously worked for USAID and is an informal adviser to the administration on development policy. "Ivanka Trump is playing a similar role to the role that Secretary Clinton played." ___ Associated Press writers Elias Meseret in Addis Ababa, and Alexis Adele in Abidjan, Ivory Coast, contributed to this report.

Supported by By The Associated Press ADDIS ABABA, Ethiopia — Far from the din of Washington, Ivanka Trump toured businesses run by women in Ethiopia on Sunday while promoting a White House global economic program for women. President Donald Trump's daughter and senior adviser visited a coffee shop and textile company in Addis Ababa. It was her first stop in Africa on a four-day trip to Ethiopia and Ivory Coast on behalf of a White House project intended to boost 50 million women in developing countries by 2025. Aiming to offer assistance and learn about the struggles of women in business, she took part in a traditional coffee ceremony, visited with weavers and announced new financial support for businesses. "Investing in women is smart development policy and it's smart business," Trump said, sitting in Dumerso Coffee, a dimly lighted space with a woven ceiling, tile floor and colorful paintings. Alongside were women who work in the industry. "It's also in our security interest, because women, when we're empowered, foster peace and stability," she said. This is Ivanka Trump's first visit to Africa since the president launched the Women's Global Development and Prosperity Initiative. It's a program she hopes will outlast an administration better known for "America First" isolationism. She has drawn praise for taking on this project and for making the trip. But thousands of miles from Washington, she is sure to be shadowed by her father's efforts to cut international aid, as well as his past disparaging comments about Africa. Ivanka Trump arrived in Ethiopia early Sunday, flying commercial. She first visited the coffee shop and then went to the textile and craft manufacturer Muya, where she was greeted by dancers and chatted with women seated at colorful looms. She took a seat at one herself. She also noted that she was in the country with Africa's second-highest population. "Ethiopia's success is Africa's success," she said. "We learned today that the quality of the coffee is second to none. You shared with me that Ethiopian cotton rivals cotton anywhere in the world. And then of course the skills and the craftsmanship of the Ethiopian people. We hope more people realize their full potential." Ivanka Trump was accompanied by Mark Green, administrator of the U.S. Agency for International Development, and David Bohigian, the acting president of the Overseas Private Investment Corp., which provides loans, loan guarantees and political risk insurance, funding projects that stretch across continents and industries. OPIC, working with Ivanka Trump, last year announced a project geared at women. At the coffee shop they announced a loan, issued by a local women-focused bank and backed by USAID, for a coffee business owned by women. At Muya, they announced additional OPIC financing. Later in the trip, she plans to meet with Ethiopian President Sahle-Work Zewde and Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed. In Ivory Coast, she will visit a cocoa farm and participate in a meeting on economic opportunities for women in West Africa. That gathering is part of the World Bank's Women Entrepreneurs Finance Initiative, a program that Ivanka Trump pushed the bank to introduce. She will be joined in Ivory Coast by a U.S. congressional delegation that will include U.S. Sen. Lindsey Graham, a close ally of the White House. Reaction to the visit reflected the contradictions of Ivanka Trump's role. Activist Marakie Tesfaye, who founded a group in Ethiopia for women, welcomed the attention. "I think she's coming genuinely to empower women and it's good that she's coming because she will push forward our agenda," she said. Ethiopian journalist Sisay Woubshet was more skeptical, citing Donald Trump's past comments. "I don't think people will have a good feeling about his daughter's visit this time around to promote her global initiative towards women." For Ivanka Trump, those challenges come with the territory. She has spent two years promoting a family-friendly agenda in an administration focused on hard-line immigration tactics and protectionist trade policies. To questions about international aid spending, she has said the administration strives to be generous in a "fiscally responsible way," and has argued that investing in her project, which builds on previous White House efforts, is a way to promote security in developing countries. The new global women's initiative involves the U.S. State Department, the U.S. National Security Council and other American agencies. It aims to assist women in developing countries with job training, financial support and legal or regulatory reforms. Money for the effort will come through USAID, which initially set up a $50 million fund using dollars already budgeted. The president's 2020 budget proposal requests an additional $100 million for the initiative, which will also be supported by programs across the government as well as private investment. Experts praised the government-wide approach, which will incorporate new and existing programs, though some stressed that it was early in the process. The investment comes as the president is proposing cuts to foreign aid, and as the administration is expanding a ban on U.S. aid to groups that promote or provide abortions. "The part of the proposal which is around looking at laws — that is a good thing to focus on," said Charles Kenny, a senior fellow at the Center for Global Development, referencing the initiative's support for changing laws, regulations and customs that create barriers preventing women from fully participating in the workforce. But he said the abortion-related ban could have a negative economic impact. "I think one of the most powerful tools for women's economic empowerment is the ability to choose when and how many children they have," Kenny said. Daniel Runde of the Center for Strategic and International Studies said Ivanka Trump was strategically building on the work of past administrations. He called her an effective "goodwill ambassador" for the issues and a smart emissary to send to Africa. Hillary Clinton, as U.S. secretary of state, "provided high-level attention to these issues," said Runde, who previously worked for USAID and is an informal adviser to the administration on development policy. "Ivanka Trump is playing a similar role to the role that Secretary Clinton played." ___ Associated Press writers Elias Meseret in Addis Ababa, and Alexis Adele in Abidjan, Ivory Coast, contributed to this report.Supported by G.O.P. congressional leaders used tactics to minimize the president’s influence and maximize their own control over public policy. By Matthew Glassman Mr. Glassman is a senior fellow at the Government Affairs Institute at Georgetown. Donald Trump has a Congress problem. He can’t get Republicans to promote his policies. And when he forces the issue — as with his border wall — he can’t win their support. But most Americans don’t know that. After all, Republican legislators voted with the president well over 90 percent of the time during the 115th Congress. Record numbers of appellate judges were confirmed, and the president signed major tax legislation. Many observers have concluded that Mr. Trump dominates the Republican Party, and his loyal base holds congressional Republicans tautly in line. But discerning legislative influence is more difficult than it appears. Throughout the first two years of the Trump presidency, Republican leaders in Congress skillfully used a variety of tactics to minimize the president’s influence and maximize their own control over public policy. Critically, congressional Republicans have adopted strategies that make the public — and more important, his conservative base — think Mr. Trump is in command. To casual followers of political news, the visible evidence from congressional votes and news releases suggests a powerful president leading a loyal congressional party. In reality, Republican legislators have hidden their influence, purposefully disguising a weak president with little clout on Capitol Hill while also preserving party unity. In his 1960 book, “Presidential Power and the Modern Presidents,” the political scientist Richard Neustadt argued that presidential power is “the power to persuade.” Strong presidents have significant influence over public policy because they wield informal power, developing a reputation for getting their way and punishing those who impede their progress. Weak presidents — like Mr. Trump — fail to persuade, allowing competing political actors in Washington to block their goals and assert their own influence. Mr. Neustadt identified a second resource that aids in presidential persuasion: public prestige. Political actors in Washington may not fear the president, but they may think twice about standing in his way if they perceive the public response to doing so may hurt them. On this dimension, Mr. Trump appears to be stronger. His overall approval rating is very poor, but he is extremely popular among Republican voters. And his sizable conservative base is ready and willing to turn on elected Republicans in primary elections should they displease the president. The infrastructure of conservative media — Fox News, talk radio — strongly supports (and influences) Mr. Trump, augmenting this public power. Mr. Trump may not have much ability to sway Democrats, but Republican officials credibly fear crossing him. Nevertheless, congressional Republicans have found a solution to this challenge: agenda-setting. Political power is not simply the ability to influence the positions citizens or lawmakers take on issues, but also the ability to control what issues are discussed and voted on. Throughout the last Congress, Republican leaders simply declined to take up legislation that reflected the priority of the president but not their own. There were no votes on immigration restrictions or funding for a border wall, protectionist trade legislation or infrastructure. The Trump budget proposals for the 2017 and 2018 fiscal years requested deep cuts in nondefense discretionary spending. Congressional Republicans quietly buried them and delivered bills both years that increased nondefense spending. Such “negative” agenda-setting leaves little trace; without a vote, it becomes difficult for opponents or voters to identify or understand what happened. President Trump’s priorities weren’t voted down in the House or the Senate; they were just never considered. Agenda-setting also provides congressional leaders “positive” power to set legislative priorities. Mr. Trump has famously shown little interest in the details of policy, and Republican leaders in Washington easily convinced him to accept as his priorities the party’s orthodox issues of Affordable Care Act repeal and tax cuts during his first year in office. By setting the agenda and having the president sign on, Republican legislators controlled policy while sharing the position of the president. When Republicans held a White House celebration after passing tax legislation, Mr. Trump claimed credit, and legislators publicly praised the “Trump” tax bill, and the president himself. This trade-off, in which orthodox Republicans get policy control and Mr. Trump gets the glory, is also apparent in the nominations of judges and executive branch officials. The president was quite successful in having judicial nominees confirmed. But virtually all of his confirmed judges have been standard conservatives; likewise, his successful executive branch appointments much more reflect Republican priorities than his own. By privately influencing Mr. Trump to nominate people who reflect Republican priorities, congressional leaders not only win substantively, but the president gets to show off a perfect record of confirmations on the Senate floor, and a high rate of Republican support for his nominees. Despite this, Mr. Trump has had an unusually large number of nominees rejected by the Senate, many of whom were put forth without previous input from congressional leaders. But this, too, has been done less visibly, with candidates withdrawing or being defeated in committee rather than being rejected in actual votes on the Senate floor. The logic of agenda-setting also explains the reticence of congressional Republicans to conduct meaningful oversight of Mr. Trump or his administration. Full-scale legitimate investigations require visible agenda-setting. They cannot be accomplished by omission or in private. Negative and positive agenda-setting served the Republican policy agenda well during the first two years of the Trump administration. In December, however, in backing out of a Republican-constructed Senate deal that would have kept the government open, the president forcefully asserted his own legislative agenda-setting. Given the power of the veto as a presidential tool of negative agenda-setting, exasperated Republican senators had little choice but to allow Mr. Trump to take control of the border wall negotiations. Congressional leaders, however, continued to use subtle agenda-setting tactics. The majority leader, Mitch McConnell, became largely absent from the public debate, declining to take part in post-negotiation news conferences at the White House and flatly declaring he would not bring legislation to the Senate floor until the president and Democratic leaders had reached a deal that could pass — and Republicans would not have to visibly cross the president in difficult public votes. These tactics yielded impressive results. While a majority of Americans blamed Mr. Trump for the partial government shutdown, very few blamed congressional Republicans. The G.O.P. leaders have managed to not get the blame for the shutdown or get blamed by the base for abandoning the president. Now that Democrats control the House, Republican leaders may find it more difficult to limit the president’s legislative role. Mr. Trump will be less likely to accept a mostly theatric role in interparty negotiations and, as shown in the shutdown, may be more interested than congressional Republicans in public confrontation. This bodes poorly for legislative prospects in the new Congress. In our current partisan environment, the visible engagement of the president in the legislative process tends to polarize debate on even seemingly nonpartisan issues. Republican leaders know they’ve lost much of their policymaking capacity. They may soon realize they also can no longer mask the weakness of Mr. Trump. Matthew Glassman (@MattGlassman312) is a senior fellow at the Government Affairs Institute at Georgetown. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported by G.O.P. congressional leaders used tactics to minimize the president’s influence and maximize their own control over public policy. By Matthew Glassman Mr. Glassman is a senior fellow at the Government Affairs Institute at Georgetown. Donald Trump has a Congress problem. He can’t get Republicans to promote his policies. And when he forces the issue — as with his border wall — he can’t win their support. But most Americans don’t know that. After all, Republican legislators voted with the president well over 90 percent of the time during the 115th Congress. Record numbers of appellate judges were confirmed, and the president signed major tax legislation. Many observers have concluded that Mr. Trump dominates the Republican Party, and his loyal base holds congressional Republicans tautly in line. But discerning legislative influence is more difficult than it appears. Throughout the first two years of the Trump presidency, Republican leaders in Congress skillfully used a variety of tactics to minimize the president’s influence and maximize their own control over public policy. Critically, congressional Republicans have adopted strategies that make the public — and more important, his conservative base — think Mr. Trump is in command. To casual followers of political news, the visible evidence from congressional votes and news releases suggests a powerful president leading a loyal congressional party. In reality, Republican legislators have hidden their influence, purposefully disguising a weak president with little clout on Capitol Hill while also preserving party unity. In his 1960 book, “Presidential Power and the Modern Presidents,” the political scientist Richard Neustadt argued that presidential power is “the power to persuade.” Strong presidents have significant influence over public policy because they wield informal power, developing a reputation for getting their way and punishing those who impede their progress. Weak presidents — like Mr. Trump — fail to persuade, allowing competing political actors in Washington to block their goals and assert their own influence. Mr. Neustadt identified a second resource that aids in presidential persuasion: public prestige. Political actors in Washington may not fear the president, but they may think twice about standing in his way if they perceive the public response to doing so may hurt them. On this dimension, Mr. Trump appears to be stronger. His overall approval rating is very poor, but he is extremely popular among Republican voters. And his sizable conservative base is ready and willing to turn on elected Republicans in primary elections should they displease the president. The infrastructure of conservative media — Fox News, talk radio — strongly supports (and influences) Mr. Trump, augmenting this public power. Mr. Trump may not have much ability to sway Democrats, but Republican officials credibly fear crossing him. Nevertheless, congressional Republicans have found a solution to this challenge: agenda-setting. Political power is not simply the ability to influence the positions citizens or lawmakers take on issues, but also the ability to control what issues are discussed and voted on. Throughout the last Congress, Republican leaders simply declined to take up legislation that reflected the priority of the president but not their own. There were no votes on immigration restrictions or funding for a border wall, protectionist trade legislation or infrastructure. The Trump budget proposals for the 2017 and 2018 fiscal years requested deep cuts in nondefense discretionary spending. Congressional Republicans quietly buried them and delivered bills both years that increased nondefense spending. Such “negative” agenda-setting leaves little trace; without a vote, it becomes difficult for opponents or voters to identify or understand what happened. President Trump’s priorities weren’t voted down in the House or the Senate; they were just never considered. Agenda-setting also provides congressional leaders “positive” power to set legislative priorities. Mr. Trump has famously shown little interest in the details of policy, and Republican leaders in Washington easily convinced him to accept as his priorities the party’s orthodox issues of Affordable Care Act repeal and tax cuts during his first year in office. By setting the agenda and having the president sign on, Republican legislators controlled policy while sharing the position of the president. When Republicans held a White House celebration after passing tax legislation, Mr. Trump claimed credit, and legislators publicly praised the “Trump” tax bill, and the president himself. This trade-off, in which orthodox Republicans get policy control and Mr. Trump gets the glory, is also apparent in the nominations of judges and executive branch officials. The president was quite successful in having judicial nominees confirmed. But virtually all of his confirmed judges have been standard conservatives; likewise, his successful executive branch appointments much more reflect Republican priorities than his own. By privately influencing Mr. Trump to nominate people who reflect Republican priorities, congressional leaders not only win substantively, but the president gets to show off a perfect record of confirmations on the Senate floor, and a high rate of Republican support for his nominees. Despite this, Mr. Trump has had an unusually large number of nominees rejected by the Senate, many of whom were put forth without previous input from congressional leaders. But this, too, has been done less visibly, with candidates withdrawing or being defeated in committee rather than being rejected in actual votes on the Senate floor. The logic of agenda-setting also explains the reticence of congressional Republicans to conduct meaningful oversight of Mr. Trump or his administration. Full-scale legitimate investigations require visible agenda-setting. They cannot be accomplished by omission or in private. Negative and positive agenda-setting served the Republican policy agenda well during the first two years of the Trump administration. In December, however, in backing out of a Republican-constructed Senate deal that would have kept the government open, the president forcefully asserted his own legislative agenda-setting. Given the power of the veto as a presidential tool of negative agenda-setting, exasperated Republican senators had little choice but to allow Mr. Trump to take control of the border wall negotiations. Congressional leaders, however, continued to use subtle agenda-setting tactics. The majority leader, Mitch McConnell, became largely absent from the public debate, declining to take part in post-negotiation news conferences at the White House and flatly declaring he would not bring legislation to the Senate floor until the president and Democratic leaders had reached a deal that could pass — and Republicans would not have to visibly cross the president in difficult public votes. These tactics yielded impressive results. While a majority of Americans blamed Mr. Trump for the partial government shutdown, very few blamed congressional Republicans. The G.O.P. leaders have managed to not get the blame for the shutdown or get blamed by the base for abandoning the president. Now that Democrats control the House, Republican leaders may find it more difficult to limit the president’s legislative role. Mr. Trump will be less likely to accept a mostly theatric role in interparty negotiations and, as shown in the shutdown, may be more interested than congressional Republicans in public confrontation. This bodes poorly for legislative prospects in the new Congress. In our current partisan environment, the visible engagement of the president in the legislative process tends to polarize debate on even seemingly nonpartisan issues. Republican leaders know they’ve lost much of their policymaking capacity. They may soon realize they also can no longer mask the weakness of Mr. Trump. Matthew Glassman (@MattGlassman312) is a senior fellow at the Government Affairs Institute at Georgetown. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Supported by letters Readers fault the president for accepting Kim Jong-un’s claim of ignorance in the Otto Warmbier case. To the Editor: Re “Grief Turns to Rage Over Trump’s Trust of Kim” (front page, March 2): The family of Otto Warmbier is rightly appalled at President Trump’s acceptance of Kim Jong-un’s claimed ignorance of the young man’s case. Mr. Warmbier died upon his return to the United States in 2017 after being held in brutal conditions in a North Korean prison for stealing a poster. Why does President Trump put complete faith in the words of dictators alleged to have sanctioned murder, whether they are in Russia, Saudi Arabia or North Korea? Could it be that these men, unlike the men and women serving in our national intelligence agencies, feel like kindred spirits? Their word is final, regardless of fact.  They possess the power, savor the privileges and exercise the rights of unchallenged autocrats, free from any democratic constraints. They demand, and get, total deference and respect based on fear and intimidation. This clearly seems to be the model that has guided President Trump as a businessman and now as a political leader.  It is clearly time for members of his party to come forward to defend democracy itself from a leader who does not value it. Bill NicholsSan Francisco To the Editor: Fred and Cindy Warmbier are finding out just how bad it feels to be pawns of Donald Trump. They were proudly on display at the 2018 State of the Union address. Now they have been thrown under the bus at the summit in Hanoi with Kim Jong-un.  The Warmbiers’ unimaginable grief over the gruesome loss of their son was compounded by the president. This is only the latest in the litany of despicable actions taken by Mr. Trump.  It’s time to wake up, America: Your country and its values are being hijacked. Maris Thatcher MeyersonBerkeley, Calif.

Supported by letters Readers fault the president for accepting Kim Jong-un’s claim of ignorance in the Otto Warmbier case. To the Editor: Re “Grief Turns to Rage Over Trump’s Trust of Kim” (front page, March 2): The family of Otto Warmbier is rightly appalled at President Trump’s acceptance of Kim Jong-un’s claimed ignorance of the young man’s case. Mr. Warmbier died upon his return to the United States in 2017 after being held in brutal conditions in a North Korean prison for stealing a poster. Why does President Trump put complete faith in the words of dictators alleged to have sanctioned murder, whether they are in Russia, Saudi Arabia or North Korea? Could it be that these men, unlike the men and women serving in our national intelligence agencies, feel like kindred spirits? Their word is final, regardless of fact.  They possess the power, savor the privileges and exercise the rights of unchallenged autocrats, free from any democratic constraints. They demand, and get, total deference and respect based on fear and intimidation. This clearly seems to be the model that has guided President Trump as a businessman and now as a political leader.  It is clearly time for members of his party to come forward to defend democracy itself from a leader who does not value it. Bill NicholsSan Francisco To the Editor: Fred and Cindy Warmbier are finding out just how bad it feels to be pawns of Donald Trump. They were proudly on display at the 2018 State of the Union address. Now they have been thrown under the bus at the summit in Hanoi with Kim Jong-un.  The Warmbiers’ unimaginable grief over the gruesome loss of their son was compounded by the president. This is only the latest in the litany of despicable actions taken by Mr. Trump.  It’s time to wake up, America: Your country and its values are being hijacked. Maris Thatcher MeyersonBerkeley, Calif.Supported by By The Associated Press ADDIS ABABA, Ethiopia — Far from the din of Washington, Ivanka Trump toured businesses run by women in Ethiopia on Sunday while promoting a White House global economic program for women. President Donald Trump's daughter and senior adviser visited a coffee shop and textile company in Addis Ababa. It was her first stop in Africa on a four-day trip to Ethiopia and Ivory Coast on behalf of a White House project intended to boost 50 million women in developing countries by 2025. Aiming to offer assistance and learn about the struggles of women in business, she took part in a traditional coffee ceremony, visited with weavers and announced new financial support for businesses. "Investing in women is smart development policy and it's smart business," Trump said, sitting in Dumerso Coffee, a dimly lighted space with a woven ceiling, tile floor and colorful paintings. Alongside were women who work in the industry. "It's also in our security interest, because women, when we're empowered, foster peace and stability," she said. This is Ivanka Trump's first visit to Africa since the president launched the Women's Global Development and Prosperity Initiative. It's a program she hopes will outlast an administration better known for "America First" isolationism. She has drawn praise for taking on this project and for making the trip. But thousands of miles from Washington, she is sure to be shadowed by her father's efforts to cut international aid, as well as his past disparaging comments about Africa. Ivanka Trump arrived in Ethiopia early Sunday, flying commercial. She first visited the coffee shop and then went to the textile and craft manufacturer Muya, where she was greeted by dancers and chatted with women seated at colorful looms. She took a seat at one herself. She also noted that she was in the country with Africa's second-highest population. "Ethiopia's success is Africa's success," she said. "We learned today that the quality of the coffee is second to none. You shared with me that Ethiopian cotton rivals cotton anywhere in the world. And then of course the skills and the craftsmanship of the Ethiopian people. We hope more people realize their full potential." Ivanka Trump was accompanied by Mark Green, administrator of the U.S. Agency for International Development, and David Bohigian, the acting president of the Overseas Private Investment Corp., which provides loans, loan guarantees and political risk insurance, funding projects that stretch across continents and industries. OPIC, working with Ivanka Trump, last year announced a project geared at women. At the coffee shop they announced a loan, issued by a local women-focused bank and backed by USAID, for a coffee business owned by women. At Muya, they announced additional OPIC financing. Later in the trip, she plans to meet with Ethiopian President Sahle-Work Zewde and Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed. In Ivory Coast, she will visit a cocoa farm and participate in a meeting on economic opportunities for women in West Africa. That gathering is part of the World Bank's Women Entrepreneurs Finance Initiative, a program that Ivanka Trump pushed the bank to introduce. She will be joined in Ivory Coast by a U.S. congressional delegation that will include U.S. Sen. Lindsey Graham, a close ally of the White House. Reaction to the visit reflected the contradictions of Ivanka Trump's role. Activist Marakie Tesfaye, who founded a group in Ethiopia for women, welcomed the attention. "I think she's coming genuinely to empower women and it's good that she's coming because she will push forward our agenda," she said. Ethiopian journalist Sisay Woubshet was more skeptical, citing Donald Trump's past comments. "I don't think people will have a good feeling about his daughter's visit this time around to promote her global initiative towards women." For Ivanka Trump, those challenges come with the territory. She has spent two years promoting a family-friendly agenda in an administration focused on hard-line immigration tactics and protectionist trade policies. To questions about international aid spending, she has said the administration strives to be generous in a "fiscally responsible way," and has argued that investing in her project, which builds on previous White House efforts, is a way to promote security in developing countries. The new global women's initiative involves the U.S. State Department, the U.S. National Security Council and other American agencies. It aims to assist women in developing countries with job training, financial support and legal or regulatory reforms. Money for the effort will come through USAID, which initially set up a $50 million fund using dollars already budgeted. The president's 2020 budget proposal requests an additional $100 million for the initiative, which will also be supported by programs across the government as well as private investment. Experts praised the government-wide approach, which will incorporate new and existing programs, though some stressed that it was early in the process. The investment comes as the president is proposing cuts to foreign aid, and as the administration is expanding a ban on U.S. aid to groups that promote or provide abortions. "The part of the proposal which is around looking at laws — that is a good thing to focus on," said Charles Kenny, a senior fellow at the Center for Global Development, referencing the initiative's support for changing laws, regulations and customs that create barriers preventing women from fully participating in the workforce. But he said the abortion-related ban could have a negative economic impact. "I think one of the most powerful tools for women's economic empowerment is the ability to choose when and how many children they have," Kenny said. Daniel Runde of the Center for Strategic and International Studies said Ivanka Trump was strategically building on the work of past administrations. He called her an effective "goodwill ambassador" for the issues and a smart emissary to send to Africa. Hillary Clinton, as U.S. secretary of state, "provided high-level attention to these issues," said Runde, who previously worked for USAID and is an informal adviser to the administration on development policy. "Ivanka Trump is playing a similar role to the role that Secretary Clinton played." ___ Associated Press writers Elias Meseret in Addis Ababa, and Alexis Adele in Abidjan, Ivory Coast, contributed to this report.

Supported by By The Associated Press ADDIS ABABA, Ethiopia — Far from the din of Washington, Ivanka Trump toured businesses run by women in Ethiopia on Sunday while promoting a White House global economic program for women. President Donald Trump's daughter and senior adviser visited a coffee shop and textile company in Addis Ababa. It was her first stop in Africa on a four-day trip to Ethiopia and Ivory Coast on behalf of a White House project intended to boost 50 million women in developing countries by 2025. Aiming to offer assistance and learn about the struggles of women in business, she took part in a traditional coffee ceremony, visited with weavers and announced new financial support for businesses. "Investing in women is smart development policy and it's smart business," Trump said, sitting in Dumerso Coffee, a dimly lighted space with a woven ceiling, tile floor and colorful paintings. Alongside were women who work in the industry. "It's also in our security interest, because women, when we're empowered, foster peace and stability," she said. This is Ivanka Trump's first visit to Africa since the president launched the Women's Global Development and Prosperity Initiative. It's a program she hopes will outlast an administration better known for "America First" isolationism. She has drawn praise for taking on this project and for making the trip. But thousands of miles from Washington, she is sure to be shadowed by her father's efforts to cut international aid, as well as his past disparaging comments about Africa. Ivanka Trump arrived in Ethiopia early Sunday, flying commercial. She first visited the coffee shop and then went to the textile and craft manufacturer Muya, where she was greeted by dancers and chatted with women seated at colorful looms. She took a seat at one herself. She also noted that she was in the country with Africa's second-highest population. "Ethiopia's success is Africa's success," she said. "We learned today that the quality of the coffee is second to none. You shared with me that Ethiopian cotton rivals cotton anywhere in the world. And then of course the skills and the craftsmanship of the Ethiopian people. We hope more people realize their full potential." Ivanka Trump was accompanied by Mark Green, administrator of the U.S. Agency for International Development, and David Bohigian, the acting president of the Overseas Private Investment Corp., which provides loans, loan guarantees and political risk insurance, funding projects that stretch across continents and industries. OPIC, working with Ivanka Trump, last year announced a project geared at women. At the coffee shop they announced a loan, issued by a local women-focused bank and backed by USAID, for a coffee business owned by women. At Muya, they announced additional OPIC financing. Later in the trip, she plans to meet with Ethiopian President Sahle-Work Zewde and Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed. In Ivory Coast, she will visit a cocoa farm and participate in a meeting on economic opportunities for women in West Africa. That gathering is part of the World Bank's Women Entrepreneurs Finance Initiative, a program that Ivanka Trump pushed the bank to introduce. She will be joined in Ivory Coast by a U.S. congressional delegation that will include U.S. Sen. Lindsey Graham, a close ally of the White House. Reaction to the visit reflected the contradictions of Ivanka Trump's role. Activist Marakie Tesfaye, who founded a group in Ethiopia for women, welcomed the attention. "I think she's coming genuinely to empower women and it's good that she's coming because she will push forward our agenda," she said. Ethiopian journalist Sisay Woubshet was more skeptical, citing Donald Trump's past comments. "I don't think people will have a good feeling about his daughter's visit this time around to promote her global initiative towards women." For Ivanka Trump, those challenges come with the territory. She has spent two years promoting a family-friendly agenda in an administration focused on hard-line immigration tactics and protectionist trade policies. To questions about international aid spending, she has said the administration strives to be generous in a "fiscally responsible way," and has argued that investing in her project, which builds on previous White House efforts, is a way to promote security in developing countries. The new global women's initiative involves the U.S. State Department, the U.S. National Security Council and other American agencies. It aims to assist women in developing countries with job training, financial support and legal or regulatory reforms. Money for the effort will come through USAID, which initially set up a $50 million fund using dollars already budgeted. The president's 2020 budget proposal requests an additional $100 million for the initiative, which will also be supported by programs across the government as well as private investment. Experts praised the government-wide approach, which will incorporate new and existing programs, though some stressed that it was early in the process. The investment comes as the president is proposing cuts to foreign aid, and as the administration is expanding a ban on U.S. aid to groups that promote or provide abortions. "The part of the proposal which is around looking at laws — that is a good thing to focus on," said Charles Kenny, a senior fellow at the Center for Global Development, referencing the initiative's support for changing laws, regulations and customs that create barriers preventing women from fully participating in the workforce. But he said the abortion-related ban could have a negative economic impact. "I think one of the most powerful tools for women's economic empowerment is the ability to choose when and how many children they have," Kenny said. Daniel Runde of the Center for Strategic and International Studies said Ivanka Trump was strategically building on the work of past administrations. He called her an effective "goodwill ambassador" for the issues and a smart emissary to send to Africa. Hillary Clinton, as U.S. secretary of state, "provided high-level attention to these issues," said Runde, who previously worked for USAID and is an informal adviser to the administration on development policy. "Ivanka Trump is playing a similar role to the role that Secretary Clinton played." ___ Associated Press writers Elias Meseret in Addis Ababa, and Alexis Adele in Abidjan, Ivory Coast, contributed to this report.Supported by letter A former agency official praises Andrew Wheeler, a career employee, for his qualifications and character. To the Editor: Re “This Coal Lobbyist Should Not Run the E.P.A.,” by Dominique Browning (Op-Ed, nytimes.com, Jan. 14) regarding President Trump’s nominee to lead the Environmental Protection Agency: Unlike the first E.P.A. administrator in the Trump administration, Andrew Wheeler has decades of experience working on environmental issues as a career E.P.A. employee and as the Senate Environment Committee’s staff director. Senators and congressional staffers, both Republicans and Democrats, know him well from his long tenure, and while they may disagree with him, all like and respect him because of his knowledge, experience and approach. Since becoming acting administrator, Mr. Wheeler has been an effective leader at the agency. He is committed to protecting the environment and has the respect of the career staff, but he is also committed to correcting the regulatory overreach that occurred under the previous administration. Mr. Wheeler understands how the regulatory process works and the type of effort that is required to develop effective and legally defensible regulatory reforms. Opponents can certainly challenge the administration’s approach to environmental issues, but attacks on Mr. Wheeler’s character and qualifications are beyond the pale. Jeff HolmsteadWashingtonThe writer served as the Environmental Protection Agency’s air administrator from 2001 to 2005. 

Supported by letter A former agency official praises Andrew Wheeler, a career employee, for his qualifications and character. To the Editor: Re “This Coal Lobbyist Should Not Run the E.P.A.,” by Dominique Browning (Op-Ed, nytimes.com, Jan. 14) regarding President Trump’s nominee to lead the Environmental Protection Agency: Unlike the first E.P.A. administrator in the Trump administration, Andrew Wheeler has decades of experience working on environmental issues as a career E.P.A. employee and as the Senate Environment Committee’s staff director. Senators and congressional staffers, both Republicans and Democrats, know him well from his long tenure, and while they may disagree with him, all like and respect him because of his knowledge, experience and approach. Since becoming acting administrator, Mr. Wheeler has been an effective leader at the agency. He is committed to protecting the environment and has the respect of the career staff, but he is also committed to correcting the regulatory overreach that occurred under the previous administration. Mr. Wheeler understands how the regulatory process works and the type of effort that is required to develop effective and legally defensible regulatory reforms. Opponents can certainly challenge the administration’s approach to environmental issues, but attacks on Mr. Wheeler’s character and qualifications are beyond the pale. Jeff HolmsteadWashingtonThe writer served as the Environmental Protection Agency’s air administrator from 2001 to 2005. Supported by letter There is a time limit on President Trump’s tenure, but Brexit has no “recall date,” a reader says. To the Editor: Re “E.U. Pushes Back Britain’s Exit Date, but Chaos Still Looms” (news article, March 22): We should appreciate that Brexit is Britain’s equivalent of our electing Donald Trump, only much worse. In both instances, a hard core of frustrated, resentful but highly motivated voters used their vote to “send a message” to what they regarded as out-of-touch elites in Washington, London or Brussels. In the United States, dangerous and deplorable as the result has been, there is an automatic “recall” date on the package of hopefully 2020, and, at worst, 2024. With Brexit, there is no recall date, and the result will likely be the ultimate diminution of Britain as a world political and economic power. Steven BavariaNorwalk, Conn.

Supported by letter There is a time limit on President Trump’s tenure, but Brexit has no “recall date,” a reader says. To the Editor: Re “E.U. Pushes Back Britain’s Exit Date, but Chaos Still Looms” (news article, March 22): We should appreciate that Brexit is Britain’s equivalent of our electing Donald Trump, only much worse. In both instances, a hard core of frustrated, resentful but highly motivated voters used their vote to “send a message” to what they regarded as out-of-touch elites in Washington, London or Brussels. In the United States, dangerous and deplorable as the result has been, there is an automatic “recall” date on the package of hopefully 2020, and, at worst, 2024. With Brexit, there is no recall date, and the result will likely be the ultimate diminution of Britain as a world political and economic power. Steven BavariaNorwalk, Conn.Supported by By The Associated Press NEW YORK — Days after the FBI raided Michael Cohen's home and office last year, President Donald Trump called his longtime fixer and urged him to "stay strong" and "hang in there" in the face of the intensifying investigation. That call was among several assurances Cohen says he received that the White House would have his back so long as he "stayed on message," special counsel Robert Mueller said in his long-awaited report on his Trump investigation. The redacted 448-page document was made public Thursday. Mueller's team said it found evidence to suggest that the president intended to discourage Cohen from cooperating with federal authorities, noting among other things that after Cohen flipped on his boss, Trump branded him a "rat" and publicly suggested Cohen's family members had committed crimes. Ultimately, however, the special counsel reached no conclusion on whether Trump obstructed justice. And last month, upon receiving Mueller's report, Attorney General William Barr decided Trump shouldn't be prosecuted. Cohen, 52, is set to report to prison next month to begin serving a three-year sentence after pleading guilty to crimes that included lying to Congress about a Trump Tower project in Moscow and arranging the payment of hush money to a porn star and a Playboy centerfold who claimed to have had affairs with Trump. The Mueller report, though blacked out in places, offers a window into the quiet support Cohen received from Trump before he turned on his longtime boss and began cooperating with federal prosecutors. In the months after the April 2018 raid against Cohen by the FBI, Trump associates sought to assure him that the president intended to take care of him. Someone associated with the Trump Organization — whose name is blacked out of the report — told Cohen that "everyone knows the boss has your back." Another time, a friend of the president's reached out to tell Cohen that he was with "the Boss" at Mar-a-Lago and that Trump said "he loves you" and not to worry, according to the report. Cohen "believed he needed the power of the President to take care of him," he told Mueller's team, noting his legal fees were still being paid at the time by the Trump Organization. But Cohen grew increasingly worried and asked one Trump attorney "what was in it for him," the report says. Cohen "discussed pardons with the President's personal counsel and believed that if he stayed on message he would be taken care of." By June 2018, however, he had broken with the president, saying in an interview that he needed to put family and country ahead of his loyalty to Trump. Trump reacted by lashing out at him and later, in what Cohen regarded as a threat, accused Cohen family members of illegal acts. "The evidence concerning this sequence of events," the Mueller report says, "could support an inference that the President used inducements in the form of positive messages in an effort to get Cohen not to cooperate, and then turned to attacks and intimidation to deter the provision of information or undermine Cohen's credibility once Cohen began cooperating." Some of Cohen's statements to Mueller's team were blacked out of the report. But Cohen attorney and spokesman Lanny Davis tweeted Thursday that Cohen has "7 days, 70 hours, + 100 pages of what #TeamMueller knows and can fill in the bulk of the redactions." Cohen himself tweeted: "Soon I will be ready to address the American people again ... tell it all ... and tell it myself!" It wasn't clear how or when he would do that.

Supported by By The Associated Press NEW YORK — Days after the FBI raided Michael Cohen's home and office last year, President Donald Trump called his longtime fixer and urged him to "stay strong" and "hang in there" in the face of the intensifying investigation. That call was among several assurances Cohen says he received that the White House would have his back so long as he "stayed on message," special counsel Robert Mueller said in his long-awaited report on his Trump investigation. The redacted 448-page document was made public Thursday. Mueller's team said it found evidence to suggest that the president intended to discourage Cohen from cooperating with federal authorities, noting among other things that after Cohen flipped on his boss, Trump branded him a "rat" and publicly suggested Cohen's family members had committed crimes. Ultimately, however, the special counsel reached no conclusion on whether Trump obstructed justice. And last month, upon receiving Mueller's report, Attorney General William Barr decided Trump shouldn't be prosecuted. Cohen, 52, is set to report to prison next month to begin serving a three-year sentence after pleading guilty to crimes that included lying to Congress about a Trump Tower project in Moscow and arranging the payment of hush money to a porn star and a Playboy centerfold who claimed to have had affairs with Trump. The Mueller report, though blacked out in places, offers a window into the quiet support Cohen received from Trump before he turned on his longtime boss and began cooperating with federal prosecutors. In the months after the April 2018 raid against Cohen by the FBI, Trump associates sought to assure him that the president intended to take care of him. Someone associated with the Trump Organization — whose name is blacked out of the report — told Cohen that "everyone knows the boss has your back." Another time, a friend of the president's reached out to tell Cohen that he was with "the Boss" at Mar-a-Lago and that Trump said "he loves you" and not to worry, according to the report. Cohen "believed he needed the power of the President to take care of him," he told Mueller's team, noting his legal fees were still being paid at the time by the Trump Organization. But Cohen grew increasingly worried and asked one Trump attorney "what was in it for him," the report says. Cohen "discussed pardons with the President's personal counsel and believed that if he stayed on message he would be taken care of." By June 2018, however, he had broken with the president, saying in an interview that he needed to put family and country ahead of his loyalty to Trump. Trump reacted by lashing out at him and later, in what Cohen regarded as a threat, accused Cohen family members of illegal acts. "The evidence concerning this sequence of events," the Mueller report says, "could support an inference that the President used inducements in the form of positive messages in an effort to get Cohen not to cooperate, and then turned to attacks and intimidation to deter the provision of information or undermine Cohen's credibility once Cohen began cooperating." Some of Cohen's statements to Mueller's team were blacked out of the report. But Cohen attorney and spokesman Lanny Davis tweeted Thursday that Cohen has "7 days, 70 hours, + 100 pages of what #TeamMueller knows and can fill in the bulk of the redactions." Cohen himself tweeted: "Soon I will be ready to address the American people again ... tell it all ... and tell it myself!" It wasn't clear how or when he would do that.Supported by By Maggie Haberman and Sheryl Gay Stolberg WASHINGTON — President Trump has often seen the political benefits of stigmatizing Muslims. During the 2016 campaign, he would not rule out creating a registry of Muslims in the United States. He claimed to have seen “thousands” of Muslims cheering on rooftops in New Jersey after Sept. 11, a statement that was widely debunked. And after the deadly attacks in Paris and California, Mr. Trump called for a moratorium on Muslims traveling to the United States. “I think Islam hates us,” Mr. Trump told Anderson Cooper, the CNN host. Now, with 19 months until the 2020 election, Mr. Trump is seeking to rally his base by sounding that theme again. And this time, he has a specific target: Representative Ilhan Omar, Democrat of Minnesota and one of the first Muslim women elected to Congress. In Ms. Omar, a Somali refugee whose family received asylum in the United States when she was a teenager, Mr. Trump has found a perfect foil: a progressive whose embrace of the boycott-Israel movement and attacks on supporters of the Jewish state have already made her a divisive figure within her own party. As the first woman to wear a hijab on the House floor — she pushed for a rules change to allow it — she is also a powerful, and visible symbol for Muslims and refugees. Mr. Trump and his team are trying to make Ms. Omar, who is relatively unknown in national politics, a household name, to be seen as the most prominent voice of the Democratic Party, regardless of her actual position. In February, the president pounced when Ms. Omar unleashed a firestorm with her comments on Israel, rejecting her subsequent apology and calling for her to resign. “Congressman Omar is terrible, what she said,” Mr. Trump told reporters. Ms. Omar, said Sam Nunberg, a 2016 campaign aide to Mr. Trump, “is the perfect embodiment of the sharp contrast President Trump wants to paint for 2020,” one he thinks “gives the president a chance to expand his support closer to 50 percent.” And the contrast the president drew in a video he tweeted out on Friday was not subtle. Against the backdrop of graphic images of the World Trade Center during the Sept. 11 attacks, the video repeatedly quotes a portion of a speech Ms. Omar gave at an event hosted by the Council on American-Islamic Relations, describing how the group was founded after the attacks “because they recognized that some people did something and that all of us were starting to lose access to our civil liberties.” (The group was actually founded in 1994.) The video focused only on the words “some people did something,” implying that Ms. Omar was playing down what had happened. Juxtaposed was Mr. Trump’s comment in capital letters: “WE WILL NEVER FORGET.” Mr. Trump’s electoral success in 2016 was based partly on culture wars and the fears among an older, white voting base that the country it knew was slipping away. Like his hard line on immigration, his Muslim bashing proved polarizing among the wider electorate, but helped him keep a tight grip on his most enthusiastic voters. In the South Carolina Republican primary in February 2016, exit polls showed that 75 percent of voters favored his proposed Muslim ban. Mr. Trump has privately said his language about Muslims has been received well among his base. His advisers and friends acknowledge that, in effect, he is trying to recreate some of the same conditions of the 2016 campaign. He is betting the issue can deliver for him again. It is a strategy that will provoke criticism that he is playing on a xenophobic strain in American society, a point that Ms. Omar made in a statement Sunday evening. “Since the president’s tweet Friday evening, I have experienced an increase in direct threats on my life — many directly referencing or replying to the president’s video,” Ms. Omar said. “This is endangering lives. It has to stop.” Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, denied that Mr. Trump meant any harm by the video. “Certainly the president is wishing no ill will and certainly not violence toward anyone,” she said. But Democrats across the philosophical spectrum — including members of the Congressional Black Caucus and centrists like Representative Josh Gottheimer of New Jersey, one of Ms. Omar’s most vocal critics — expressed alarm at the way Ms. Omar was singled out. “Since Ilhan came to national attention and throughout her tenure in Congress she has been a target of these right-wing extremists; that’s why we’re standing up for her,” said Representative Bennie Thompson, Democrat of Mississippi and the chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee. “This isn’t the first time that President Trump has targeted her and people like her.” Representative Jerrold Nadler, Democrat of New York, who has also been critical of Ms. Omar, singled out Mr. Trump’s own reaction to the events of Sept 11. “He has no moral authority to be talking about 9/11 at all,” he said, noting that Mr. Trump’s real estate company applied for and received grants after the attacks that were intended for small businesses affected by the devastation. Geoff Garin, a veteran Democratic strategist, predicted that Mr. Trump’s use of such graphic images from one of the nation’s darkest days would backfire for the president. “Voters are turned off by the use of 9/11 for political purposes, and my guess is that moderate voters are going to see Trump’s use of that as both ugly and extreme,” Mr. Garin said. “I think his over-the-top exploitation of 9/11 is going to turn more voters off than he wins over by attacking the Democrats on this.” In a tweet Monday morning, Mr. Trump accused Ms. Omar of making “anti-Semitic, anti-Israel and ungrateful U.S. HATE statements.” But on a trip in the afternoon to Ms. Omar’s home state of Minnesota for an economic round table at a trucking company, the president made no mention of her. Outside, however, the debate over Ms. Omar was raucous. The president’s supporters, in trademark red hats on one side of the road, chanted “Trump 2020” and “Omar divides” with the occasional “CAIR is Hamas” sign, in reference to the Council on American-Islamic Relations. Across the street, chanting “This is what Democracy looks like” and singing “This Little Light of Mine,” protesters waved “I stand with Ilhan” signs and banners. Emily Cochrane contributed reporting from Burnsville, Minn.

Supported by By Maggie Haberman and Sheryl Gay Stolberg WASHINGTON — President Trump has often seen the political benefits of stigmatizing Muslims. During the 2016 campaign, he would not rule out creating a registry of Muslims in the United States. He claimed to have seen “thousands” of Muslims cheering on rooftops in New Jersey after Sept. 11, a statement that was widely debunked. And after the deadly attacks in Paris and California, Mr. Trump called for a moratorium on Muslims traveling to the United States. “I think Islam hates us,” Mr. Trump told Anderson Cooper, the CNN host. Now, with 19 months until the 2020 election, Mr. Trump is seeking to rally his base by sounding that theme again. And this time, he has a specific target: Representative Ilhan Omar, Democrat of Minnesota and one of the first Muslim women elected to Congress. In Ms. Omar, a Somali refugee whose family received asylum in the United States when she was a teenager, Mr. Trump has found a perfect foil: a progressive whose embrace of the boycott-Israel movement and attacks on supporters of the Jewish state have already made her a divisive figure within her own party. As the first woman to wear a hijab on the House floor — she pushed for a rules change to allow it — she is also a powerful, and visible symbol for Muslims and refugees. Mr. Trump and his team are trying to make Ms. Omar, who is relatively unknown in national politics, a household name, to be seen as the most prominent voice of the Democratic Party, regardless of her actual position. In February, the president pounced when Ms. Omar unleashed a firestorm with her comments on Israel, rejecting her subsequent apology and calling for her to resign. “Congressman Omar is terrible, what she said,” Mr. Trump told reporters. Ms. Omar, said Sam Nunberg, a 2016 campaign aide to Mr. Trump, “is the perfect embodiment of the sharp contrast President Trump wants to paint for 2020,” one he thinks “gives the president a chance to expand his support closer to 50 percent.” And the contrast the president drew in a video he tweeted out on Friday was not subtle. Against the backdrop of graphic images of the World Trade Center during the Sept. 11 attacks, the video repeatedly quotes a portion of a speech Ms. Omar gave at an event hosted by the Council on American-Islamic Relations, describing how the group was founded after the attacks “because they recognized that some people did something and that all of us were starting to lose access to our civil liberties.” (The group was actually founded in 1994.) The video focused only on the words “some people did something,” implying that Ms. Omar was playing down what had happened. Juxtaposed was Mr. Trump’s comment in capital letters: “WE WILL NEVER FORGET.” Mr. Trump’s electoral success in 2016 was based partly on culture wars and the fears among an older, white voting base that the country it knew was slipping away. Like his hard line on immigration, his Muslim bashing proved polarizing among the wider electorate, but helped him keep a tight grip on his most enthusiastic voters. In the South Carolina Republican primary in February 2016, exit polls showed that 75 percent of voters favored his proposed Muslim ban. Mr. Trump has privately said his language about Muslims has been received well among his base. His advisers and friends acknowledge that, in effect, he is trying to recreate some of the same conditions of the 2016 campaign. He is betting the issue can deliver for him again. It is a strategy that will provoke criticism that he is playing on a xenophobic strain in American society, a point that Ms. Omar made in a statement Sunday evening. “Since the president’s tweet Friday evening, I have experienced an increase in direct threats on my life — many directly referencing or replying to the president’s video,” Ms. Omar said. “This is endangering lives. It has to stop.” Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, denied that Mr. Trump meant any harm by the video. “Certainly the president is wishing no ill will and certainly not violence toward anyone,” she said. But Democrats across the philosophical spectrum — including members of the Congressional Black Caucus and centrists like Representative Josh Gottheimer of New Jersey, one of Ms. Omar’s most vocal critics — expressed alarm at the way Ms. Omar was singled out. “Since Ilhan came to national attention and throughout her tenure in Congress she has been a target of these right-wing extremists; that’s why we’re standing up for her,” said Representative Bennie Thompson, Democrat of Mississippi and the chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee. “This isn’t the first time that President Trump has targeted her and people like her.” Representative Jerrold Nadler, Democrat of New York, who has also been critical of Ms. Omar, singled out Mr. Trump’s own reaction to the events of Sept 11. “He has no moral authority to be talking about 9/11 at all,” he said, noting that Mr. Trump’s real estate company applied for and received grants after the attacks that were intended for small businesses affected by the devastation. Geoff Garin, a veteran Democratic strategist, predicted that Mr. Trump’s use of such graphic images from one of the nation’s darkest days would backfire for the president. “Voters are turned off by the use of 9/11 for political purposes, and my guess is that moderate voters are going to see Trump’s use of that as both ugly and extreme,” Mr. Garin said. “I think his over-the-top exploitation of 9/11 is going to turn more voters off than he wins over by attacking the Democrats on this.” In a tweet Monday morning, Mr. Trump accused Ms. Omar of making “anti-Semitic, anti-Israel and ungrateful U.S. HATE statements.” But on a trip in the afternoon to Ms. Omar’s home state of Minnesota for an economic round table at a trucking company, the president made no mention of her. Outside, however, the debate over Ms. Omar was raucous. The president’s supporters, in trademark red hats on one side of the road, chanted “Trump 2020” and “Omar divides” with the occasional “CAIR is Hamas” sign, in reference to the Council on American-Islamic Relations. Across the street, chanting “This is what Democracy looks like” and singing “This Little Light of Mine,” protesters waved “I stand with Ilhan” signs and banners. Emily Cochrane contributed reporting from Burnsville, Minn.Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — The Trump administration on Wednesday proposed new regulations aimed at making it easier for investors to take advantage of tax breaks for investing in "Opportunity Zones" in low-income areas. The proposed regulations issued by the Treasury Department seek to clear up questions that were keeping some investors from using the tax incentives. President Donald Trump, speaking at a White House conference to promote the program, said governors in all 50 states and U.S. territories had designated 8,700 neighborhoods as Opportunity Zones, making these economically depressed areas eligible to be used for the federal tax incentives. The program was included in the $1.5 trillion tax cut legislation that Trump pushed through Congress in 2017. The new Opportunity Zones were set up to enable private investors to re-invest profits into designated areas. The investor can get a tax benefit by deferring their capital gains taxes invested in the zones until 2026. They also get a discount of up to 15% on the capital gains profits invested in the zones and pay no capital gains taxes on investments in the zones held for at least 10 years. However, the government found that use of these benefits was being limited because of concerns over how the tax rules would be interpreted. The proposed regulations unveiled Wednesday are designed to clear up the confusion. Trump said the tax had been lowered "all the way down to a very big, fat, beautiful number of zero." Industry analysts said the new rules should help generate increased interest in the program. Governors were allowed to choose up to a quarter of their states' low-income census tracts as Opportunity Zones.

Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — The Trump administration on Wednesday proposed new regulations aimed at making it easier for investors to take advantage of tax breaks for investing in "Opportunity Zones" in low-income areas. The proposed regulations issued by the Treasury Department seek to clear up questions that were keeping some investors from using the tax incentives. President Donald Trump, speaking at a White House conference to promote the program, said governors in all 50 states and U.S. territories had designated 8,700 neighborhoods as Opportunity Zones, making these economically depressed areas eligible to be used for the federal tax incentives. The program was included in the $1.5 trillion tax cut legislation that Trump pushed through Congress in 2017. The new Opportunity Zones were set up to enable private investors to re-invest profits into designated areas. The investor can get a tax benefit by deferring their capital gains taxes invested in the zones until 2026. They also get a discount of up to 15% on the capital gains profits invested in the zones and pay no capital gains taxes on investments in the zones held for at least 10 years. However, the government found that use of these benefits was being limited because of concerns over how the tax rules would be interpreted. The proposed regulations unveiled Wednesday are designed to clear up the confusion. Trump said the tax had been lowered "all the way down to a very big, fat, beautiful number of zero." Industry analysts said the new rules should help generate increased interest in the program. Governors were allowed to choose up to a quarter of their states' low-income census tracts as Opportunity Zones.            Paul Manafort’s Trail of Scandals My Dead Dad’s Porno Tapes Ten Meter Tower Between Sound and Silence Coal Miner to Trump: “Coal Mining Isn’t Coming Back” House Tour | Cary Leibowitz Sanctuary City Hotline 2011: Arab Spring ‘Can The President Be Impeached?’ We Answer Your Questions Calving Season

            Paul Manafort’s Trail of Scandals My Dead Dad’s Porno Tapes Ten Meter Tower Between Sound and Silence Coal Miner to Trump: “Coal Mining Isn’t Coming Back” House Tour | Cary Leibowitz Sanctuary City Hotline 2011: Arab Spring ‘Can The President Be Impeached?’ We Answer Your Questions Calving SeasonSupported by The parallels between the Mafia and the Trump Organization are striking, and Giuliani perfected the template for prosecuting organized crime. By Garrett M. Graff Mr. Graff is the author of “The Threat Matrix: Inside Robert Mueller’s F.B.I. and the War on Global Terror.”  Any onetime Mafia investigator who listened to the Trump “fixer” Michael Cohen testify Wednesday would have immediately recognized the congressional hearing’s historical analogue — what America witnessed on Capitol Hill wasn’t so much John Dean turning on President Richard Nixon, circa 1973; it was the mobster Joseph Valachi turning on the Cosa Nostra, circa 1963. The Valachi hearings, led by Senator John McClellan of Arkansas, opened the country’s eyes for the first time to the Mafia, as the witness broke “omertà” — the code of silence — to speak in public about “this thing of ours,” Cosa Nostra. He explained just how “organized” organized crime actually was — with soldiers, capos, godfathers and even the “Commission,” the governing body of the various Mafia families. Fighting the Mafia posed a uniquely hard challenge for investigators. Mafia families were involved in numerous distinct crimes and schemes, over yearslong periods, all for the clear benefit of its leadership, but those very leaders were tough to prosecute because they were rarely involved in the day-to-day crime. They spoke in their own code, rarely directly ordering a lieutenant to do something illegal, but instead offering oblique instructions or expressing general wishes that their lieutenants simply knew how to translate into action. Those explosive — and arresting — hearings led to the 1970 passage of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act, better known as RICO, a law designed to allow prosecutors to go after enterprises that engaged in extended, organized criminality. RICO laid out certain “predicate” crimes — those that prosecutors could use to stitch together evidence of a corrupt organization and then go after everyone involved in the organization as part of an organized conspiracy. While the headline-grabbing RICO “predicates” were violent crimes like murder, kidnapping, arson and robbery, the statute also focused on crimes like fraud, obstruction of justice, money laundering and even aiding or abetting illegal immigration. It took prosecutors a while to figure out how to use RICO effectively, but by the mid-1980s, federal investigators in the Southern District of New York were hitting their stride under none other than the crusading United States attorney Rudy Giuliani, who as the head of the Southern District brought charges in 1985 against the heads of the city’s five dominant Mafia families. Ever since, S.D.N.Y. prosecutors and F.B.I. agents have been the nation’s gold standard in RICO prosecutions — a fact that makes clear precisely why, after Mr. Cohen’s testimony, President Trump’s greatest legal jeopardy may not be in the investigation by the special counsel, Robert Mueller. What lawmakers heard Wednesday sounded a lot like a racketeering enterprise: an organization with a few key players and numerous overlapping crimes — not just one conspiracy, but many. Even leaving aside any questions about the Mueller investigation and the 2016 campaign, Mr. Cohen leveled allegations that sounded like bank fraud, charity fraud and tax fraud, as well as hints of insurance fraud, obstruction of justice and suborning perjury.  The parallels between the Mafia and the Trump Organization are more than we might like to admit: After all, Mr. Cohen was labeled a “rat” by President Trump last year for agreeing to cooperate with investigators; interestingly, in the language of crime, “rats” generally aren’t seen as liars. They’re “rats” precisely because they turn state’s evidence and tell the truth, spilling the secrets of a criminal organization. Mr. Cohen was clear about the rot at the center of his former employer: “Everybody’s job at the Trump Organization is to protect Mr. Trump. Every day most of us knew we were coming and we were going to lie for him about something. That became the norm.” RICO was precisely designed to catch the godfathers and bosses at the top of these crime syndicates — people a step or two removed from the actual crimes committed, those whose will is made real, even without a direct order. Exactly, it appears, as Mr. Trump did at the top of his family business: “Mr. Trump did not directly tell me to lie to Congress. That’s not how he operates,” Mr. Cohen said. Mr. Trump, Mr. Cohen said, “doesn’t give orders. He speaks in code. And I understand that code.” What’s notable about Mr. Cohen’s comments is how they paint a consistent (and credible) pattern of Mr. Trump’s behavior: The former F.B.I. director James Comey, in testimony nearly two years ago in the wake of his firing, made almost exactly the same point and used almost exactly the same language. Mr. Trump never directly ordered him to drop the Flynn investigation, Mr. Comey said, but he made it all too clear what he wanted — the president isolated Mr. Comey, with no other ears around, and then said he hoped Mr. Comey “can let this go.” As Mr. Comey said, “I took it as, this is what he wants me to do.” He cited in his testimony then the famous example of King Henry II’s saying, “Will no one rid me of this turbulent priest?,” a question that resulted in the murder of that very meddlesome priest, Thomas Becket. The sheer number and breadth of the investigations into Mr. Trump’s orbit these days indicates how vulnerable the president’s family business would be to just this type of prosecution. In December, I counted 17, and since then, investigators have started an inquiry into undocumented workers at Mr. Trump’s New Jersey golf course, another crime that could be a RICO predicate; Mr. Cohen’s public testimony itself, where he certainly laid out enough evidence and bread crumbs for prosecutors to verify his allegations, mentioned enough criminal activity to build a racketeering case. Moreover, RICO allows prosecutors to wrap 10 years of racketeering activity into a single set of charges, which is to say, almost precisely the length of time — a decade — that Michael Cohen would have unparalleled insight into Mr. Trump’s operations. Similarly, many Mafia cases end up being built on wiretaps — just like, for instance, the perhaps 100 recordings Mr. Cohen says he made of people during his tenure working for Mr. Trump, recordings that federal investigators are surely poring over as part of the 290,000 documents and files they seized in their April raid last year. Indicting the whole Trump Organization as a “corrupt enterprise” could also help prosecutors address the thorny question of whether the president can be indicted in office; they could lay out a whole pattern of criminal activity, indict numerous players — including perhaps Trump family members — and leave the president himself as a named, unindicted co-conspirator. Such an action would allow investigators to make public all the known activity for Congress and the public to consider as part of impeachment hearings or re-election. It would also activate powerful forfeiture tools for prosecutors that could allow them to seize the Trump Organization’s assets and cut off its income streams. The irony will be that if federal prosecutors decide to move against President Trump’s empire and family together, he’ll have one man’s model to thank: his own TV lawyer, Rudy Giuliani, who perfected the template to tackle precisely that type of criminal enterprise. Garrett M. Graff (@vermontgmg) is a journalist, historian and the author of “The Threat Matrix: Inside Robert Mueller’s F.B.I. and the War on Global Terror.”  The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported by The parallels between the Mafia and the Trump Organization are striking, and Giuliani perfected the template for prosecuting organized crime. By Garrett M. Graff Mr. Graff is the author of “The Threat Matrix: Inside Robert Mueller’s F.B.I. and the War on Global Terror.”  Any onetime Mafia investigator who listened to the Trump “fixer” Michael Cohen testify Wednesday would have immediately recognized the congressional hearing’s historical analogue — what America witnessed on Capitol Hill wasn’t so much John Dean turning on President Richard Nixon, circa 1973; it was the mobster Joseph Valachi turning on the Cosa Nostra, circa 1963. The Valachi hearings, led by Senator John McClellan of Arkansas, opened the country’s eyes for the first time to the Mafia, as the witness broke “omertà” — the code of silence — to speak in public about “this thing of ours,” Cosa Nostra. He explained just how “organized” organized crime actually was — with soldiers, capos, godfathers and even the “Commission,” the governing body of the various Mafia families. Fighting the Mafia posed a uniquely hard challenge for investigators. Mafia families were involved in numerous distinct crimes and schemes, over yearslong periods, all for the clear benefit of its leadership, but those very leaders were tough to prosecute because they were rarely involved in the day-to-day crime. They spoke in their own code, rarely directly ordering a lieutenant to do something illegal, but instead offering oblique instructions or expressing general wishes that their lieutenants simply knew how to translate into action. Those explosive — and arresting — hearings led to the 1970 passage of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act, better known as RICO, a law designed to allow prosecutors to go after enterprises that engaged in extended, organized criminality. RICO laid out certain “predicate” crimes — those that prosecutors could use to stitch together evidence of a corrupt organization and then go after everyone involved in the organization as part of an organized conspiracy. While the headline-grabbing RICO “predicates” were violent crimes like murder, kidnapping, arson and robbery, the statute also focused on crimes like fraud, obstruction of justice, money laundering and even aiding or abetting illegal immigration. It took prosecutors a while to figure out how to use RICO effectively, but by the mid-1980s, federal investigators in the Southern District of New York were hitting their stride under none other than the crusading United States attorney Rudy Giuliani, who as the head of the Southern District brought charges in 1985 against the heads of the city’s five dominant Mafia families. Ever since, S.D.N.Y. prosecutors and F.B.I. agents have been the nation’s gold standard in RICO prosecutions — a fact that makes clear precisely why, after Mr. Cohen’s testimony, President Trump’s greatest legal jeopardy may not be in the investigation by the special counsel, Robert Mueller. What lawmakers heard Wednesday sounded a lot like a racketeering enterprise: an organization with a few key players and numerous overlapping crimes — not just one conspiracy, but many. Even leaving aside any questions about the Mueller investigation and the 2016 campaign, Mr. Cohen leveled allegations that sounded like bank fraud, charity fraud and tax fraud, as well as hints of insurance fraud, obstruction of justice and suborning perjury.  The parallels between the Mafia and the Trump Organization are more than we might like to admit: After all, Mr. Cohen was labeled a “rat” by President Trump last year for agreeing to cooperate with investigators; interestingly, in the language of crime, “rats” generally aren’t seen as liars. They’re “rats” precisely because they turn state’s evidence and tell the truth, spilling the secrets of a criminal organization. Mr. Cohen was clear about the rot at the center of his former employer: “Everybody’s job at the Trump Organization is to protect Mr. Trump. Every day most of us knew we were coming and we were going to lie for him about something. That became the norm.” RICO was precisely designed to catch the godfathers and bosses at the top of these crime syndicates — people a step or two removed from the actual crimes committed, those whose will is made real, even without a direct order. Exactly, it appears, as Mr. Trump did at the top of his family business: “Mr. Trump did not directly tell me to lie to Congress. That’s not how he operates,” Mr. Cohen said. Mr. Trump, Mr. Cohen said, “doesn’t give orders. He speaks in code. And I understand that code.” What’s notable about Mr. Cohen’s comments is how they paint a consistent (and credible) pattern of Mr. Trump’s behavior: The former F.B.I. director James Comey, in testimony nearly two years ago in the wake of his firing, made almost exactly the same point and used almost exactly the same language. Mr. Trump never directly ordered him to drop the Flynn investigation, Mr. Comey said, but he made it all too clear what he wanted — the president isolated Mr. Comey, with no other ears around, and then said he hoped Mr. Comey “can let this go.” As Mr. Comey said, “I took it as, this is what he wants me to do.” He cited in his testimony then the famous example of King Henry II’s saying, “Will no one rid me of this turbulent priest?,” a question that resulted in the murder of that very meddlesome priest, Thomas Becket. The sheer number and breadth of the investigations into Mr. Trump’s orbit these days indicates how vulnerable the president’s family business would be to just this type of prosecution. In December, I counted 17, and since then, investigators have started an inquiry into undocumented workers at Mr. Trump’s New Jersey golf course, another crime that could be a RICO predicate; Mr. Cohen’s public testimony itself, where he certainly laid out enough evidence and bread crumbs for prosecutors to verify his allegations, mentioned enough criminal activity to build a racketeering case. Moreover, RICO allows prosecutors to wrap 10 years of racketeering activity into a single set of charges, which is to say, almost precisely the length of time — a decade — that Michael Cohen would have unparalleled insight into Mr. Trump’s operations. Similarly, many Mafia cases end up being built on wiretaps — just like, for instance, the perhaps 100 recordings Mr. Cohen says he made of people during his tenure working for Mr. Trump, recordings that federal investigators are surely poring over as part of the 290,000 documents and files they seized in their April raid last year. Indicting the whole Trump Organization as a “corrupt enterprise” could also help prosecutors address the thorny question of whether the president can be indicted in office; they could lay out a whole pattern of criminal activity, indict numerous players — including perhaps Trump family members — and leave the president himself as a named, unindicted co-conspirator. Such an action would allow investigators to make public all the known activity for Congress and the public to consider as part of impeachment hearings or re-election. It would also activate powerful forfeiture tools for prosecutors that could allow them to seize the Trump Organization’s assets and cut off its income streams. The irony will be that if federal prosecutors decide to move against President Trump’s empire and family together, he’ll have one man’s model to thank: his own TV lawyer, Rudy Giuliani, who perfected the template to tackle precisely that type of criminal enterprise. Garrett M. Graff (@vermontgmg) is a journalist, historian and the author of “The Threat Matrix: Inside Robert Mueller’s F.B.I. and the War on Global Terror.”  The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Supported by The parallels between the Mafia and the Trump Organization are striking, and Giuliani perfected the template for prosecuting organized crime. By Garrett M. Graff Mr. Graff is the author of “The Threat Matrix: Inside Robert Mueller’s F.B.I. and the War on Global Terror.”  Any onetime Mafia investigator who listened to the Trump “fixer” Michael Cohen testify Wednesday would have immediately recognized the congressional hearing’s historical analogue — what America witnessed on Capitol Hill wasn’t so much John Dean turning on President Richard Nixon, circa 1973; it was the mobster Joseph Valachi turning on the Cosa Nostra, circa 1963. The Valachi hearings, led by Senator John McClellan of Arkansas, opened the country’s eyes for the first time to the Mafia, as the witness broke “omertà” — the code of silence — to speak in public about “this thing of ours,” Cosa Nostra. He explained just how “organized” organized crime actually was — with soldiers, capos, godfathers and even the “Commission,” the governing body of the various Mafia families. Fighting the Mafia posed a uniquely hard challenge for investigators. Mafia families were involved in numerous distinct crimes and schemes, over yearslong periods, all for the clear benefit of its leadership, but those very leaders were tough to prosecute because they were rarely involved in the day-to-day crime. They spoke in their own code, rarely directly ordering a lieutenant to do something illegal, but instead offering oblique instructions or expressing general wishes that their lieutenants simply knew how to translate into action. Those explosive — and arresting — hearings led to the 1970 passage of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act, better known as RICO, a law designed to allow prosecutors to go after enterprises that engaged in extended, organized criminality. RICO laid out certain “predicate” crimes — those that prosecutors could use to stitch together evidence of a corrupt organization and then go after everyone involved in the organization as part of an organized conspiracy. While the headline-grabbing RICO “predicates” were violent crimes like murder, kidnapping, arson and robbery, the statute also focused on crimes like fraud, obstruction of justice, money laundering and even aiding or abetting illegal immigration. It took prosecutors a while to figure out how to use RICO effectively, but by the mid-1980s, federal investigators in the Southern District of New York were hitting their stride under none other than the crusading United States attorney Rudy Giuliani, who as the head of the Southern District brought charges in 1985 against the heads of the city’s five dominant Mafia families. Ever since, S.D.N.Y. prosecutors and F.B.I. agents have been the nation’s gold standard in RICO prosecutions — a fact that makes clear precisely why, after Mr. Cohen’s testimony, President Trump’s greatest legal jeopardy may not be in the investigation by the special counsel, Robert Mueller. What lawmakers heard Wednesday sounded a lot like a racketeering enterprise: an organization with a few key players and numerous overlapping crimes — not just one conspiracy, but many. Even leaving aside any questions about the Mueller investigation and the 2016 campaign, Mr. Cohen leveled allegations that sounded like bank fraud, charity fraud and tax fraud, as well as hints of insurance fraud, obstruction of justice and suborning perjury.  The parallels between the Mafia and the Trump Organization are more than we might like to admit: After all, Mr. Cohen was labeled a “rat” by President Trump last year for agreeing to cooperate with investigators; interestingly, in the language of crime, “rats” generally aren’t seen as liars. They’re “rats” precisely because they turn state’s evidence and tell the truth, spilling the secrets of a criminal organization. Mr. Cohen was clear about the rot at the center of his former employer: “Everybody’s job at the Trump Organization is to protect Mr. Trump. Every day most of us knew we were coming and we were going to lie for him about something. That became the norm.” RICO was precisely designed to catch the godfathers and bosses at the top of these crime syndicates — people a step or two removed from the actual crimes committed, those whose will is made real, even without a direct order. Exactly, it appears, as Mr. Trump did at the top of his family business: “Mr. Trump did not directly tell me to lie to Congress. That’s not how he operates,” Mr. Cohen said. Mr. Trump, Mr. Cohen said, “doesn’t give orders. He speaks in code. And I understand that code.” What’s notable about Mr. Cohen’s comments is how they paint a consistent (and credible) pattern of Mr. Trump’s behavior: The former F.B.I. director James Comey, in testimony nearly two years ago in the wake of his firing, made almost exactly the same point and used almost exactly the same language. Mr. Trump never directly ordered him to drop the Flynn investigation, Mr. Comey said, but he made it all too clear what he wanted — the president isolated Mr. Comey, with no other ears around, and then said he hoped Mr. Comey “can let this go.” As Mr. Comey said, “I took it as, this is what he wants me to do.” He cited in his testimony then the famous example of King Henry II’s saying, “Will no one rid me of this turbulent priest?,” a question that resulted in the murder of that very meddlesome priest, Thomas Becket. The sheer number and breadth of the investigations into Mr. Trump’s orbit these days indicates how vulnerable the president’s family business would be to just this type of prosecution. In December, I counted 17, and since then, investigators have started an inquiry into undocumented workers at Mr. Trump’s New Jersey golf course, another crime that could be a RICO predicate; Mr. Cohen’s public testimony itself, where he certainly laid out enough evidence and bread crumbs for prosecutors to verify his allegations, mentioned enough criminal activity to build a racketeering case. Moreover, RICO allows prosecutors to wrap 10 years of racketeering activity into a single set of charges, which is to say, almost precisely the length of time — a decade — that Michael Cohen would have unparalleled insight into Mr. Trump’s operations. Similarly, many Mafia cases end up being built on wiretaps — just like, for instance, the perhaps 100 recordings Mr. Cohen says he made of people during his tenure working for Mr. Trump, recordings that federal investigators are surely poring over as part of the 290,000 documents and files they seized in their April raid last year. Indicting the whole Trump Organization as a “corrupt enterprise” could also help prosecutors address the thorny question of whether the president can be indicted in office; they could lay out a whole pattern of criminal activity, indict numerous players — including perhaps Trump family members — and leave the president himself as a named, unindicted co-conspirator. Such an action would allow investigators to make public all the known activity for Congress and the public to consider as part of impeachment hearings or re-election. It would also activate powerful forfeiture tools for prosecutors that could allow them to seize the Trump Organization’s assets and cut off its income streams. The irony will be that if federal prosecutors decide to move against President Trump’s empire and family together, he’ll have one man’s model to thank: his own TV lawyer, Rudy Giuliani, who perfected the template to tackle precisely that type of criminal enterprise. Garrett M. Graff (@vermontgmg) is a journalist, historian and the author of “The Threat Matrix: Inside Robert Mueller’s F.B.I. and the War on Global Terror.”  The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported by The parallels between the Mafia and the Trump Organization are striking, and Giuliani perfected the template for prosecuting organized crime. By Garrett M. Graff Mr. Graff is the author of “The Threat Matrix: Inside Robert Mueller’s F.B.I. and the War on Global Terror.”  Any onetime Mafia investigator who listened to the Trump “fixer” Michael Cohen testify Wednesday would have immediately recognized the congressional hearing’s historical analogue — what America witnessed on Capitol Hill wasn’t so much John Dean turning on President Richard Nixon, circa 1973; it was the mobster Joseph Valachi turning on the Cosa Nostra, circa 1963. The Valachi hearings, led by Senator John McClellan of Arkansas, opened the country’s eyes for the first time to the Mafia, as the witness broke “omertà” — the code of silence — to speak in public about “this thing of ours,” Cosa Nostra. He explained just how “organized” organized crime actually was — with soldiers, capos, godfathers and even the “Commission,” the governing body of the various Mafia families. Fighting the Mafia posed a uniquely hard challenge for investigators. Mafia families were involved in numerous distinct crimes and schemes, over yearslong periods, all for the clear benefit of its leadership, but those very leaders were tough to prosecute because they were rarely involved in the day-to-day crime. They spoke in their own code, rarely directly ordering a lieutenant to do something illegal, but instead offering oblique instructions or expressing general wishes that their lieutenants simply knew how to translate into action. Those explosive — and arresting — hearings led to the 1970 passage of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act, better known as RICO, a law designed to allow prosecutors to go after enterprises that engaged in extended, organized criminality. RICO laid out certain “predicate” crimes — those that prosecutors could use to stitch together evidence of a corrupt organization and then go after everyone involved in the organization as part of an organized conspiracy. While the headline-grabbing RICO “predicates” were violent crimes like murder, kidnapping, arson and robbery, the statute also focused on crimes like fraud, obstruction of justice, money laundering and even aiding or abetting illegal immigration. It took prosecutors a while to figure out how to use RICO effectively, but by the mid-1980s, federal investigators in the Southern District of New York were hitting their stride under none other than the crusading United States attorney Rudy Giuliani, who as the head of the Southern District brought charges in 1985 against the heads of the city’s five dominant Mafia families. Ever since, S.D.N.Y. prosecutors and F.B.I. agents have been the nation’s gold standard in RICO prosecutions — a fact that makes clear precisely why, after Mr. Cohen’s testimony, President Trump’s greatest legal jeopardy may not be in the investigation by the special counsel, Robert Mueller. What lawmakers heard Wednesday sounded a lot like a racketeering enterprise: an organization with a few key players and numerous overlapping crimes — not just one conspiracy, but many. Even leaving aside any questions about the Mueller investigation and the 2016 campaign, Mr. Cohen leveled allegations that sounded like bank fraud, charity fraud and tax fraud, as well as hints of insurance fraud, obstruction of justice and suborning perjury.  The parallels between the Mafia and the Trump Organization are more than we might like to admit: After all, Mr. Cohen was labeled a “rat” by President Trump last year for agreeing to cooperate with investigators; interestingly, in the language of crime, “rats” generally aren’t seen as liars. They’re “rats” precisely because they turn state’s evidence and tell the truth, spilling the secrets of a criminal organization. Mr. Cohen was clear about the rot at the center of his former employer: “Everybody’s job at the Trump Organization is to protect Mr. Trump. Every day most of us knew we were coming and we were going to lie for him about something. That became the norm.” RICO was precisely designed to catch the godfathers and bosses at the top of these crime syndicates — people a step or two removed from the actual crimes committed, those whose will is made real, even without a direct order. Exactly, it appears, as Mr. Trump did at the top of his family business: “Mr. Trump did not directly tell me to lie to Congress. That’s not how he operates,” Mr. Cohen said. Mr. Trump, Mr. Cohen said, “doesn’t give orders. He speaks in code. And I understand that code.” What’s notable about Mr. Cohen’s comments is how they paint a consistent (and credible) pattern of Mr. Trump’s behavior: The former F.B.I. director James Comey, in testimony nearly two years ago in the wake of his firing, made almost exactly the same point and used almost exactly the same language. Mr. Trump never directly ordered him to drop the Flynn investigation, Mr. Comey said, but he made it all too clear what he wanted — the president isolated Mr. Comey, with no other ears around, and then said he hoped Mr. Comey “can let this go.” As Mr. Comey said, “I took it as, this is what he wants me to do.” He cited in his testimony then the famous example of King Henry II’s saying, “Will no one rid me of this turbulent priest?,” a question that resulted in the murder of that very meddlesome priest, Thomas Becket. The sheer number and breadth of the investigations into Mr. Trump’s orbit these days indicates how vulnerable the president’s family business would be to just this type of prosecution. In December, I counted 17, and since then, investigators have started an inquiry into undocumented workers at Mr. Trump’s New Jersey golf course, another crime that could be a RICO predicate; Mr. Cohen’s public testimony itself, where he certainly laid out enough evidence and bread crumbs for prosecutors to verify his allegations, mentioned enough criminal activity to build a racketeering case. Moreover, RICO allows prosecutors to wrap 10 years of racketeering activity into a single set of charges, which is to say, almost precisely the length of time — a decade — that Michael Cohen would have unparalleled insight into Mr. Trump’s operations. Similarly, many Mafia cases end up being built on wiretaps — just like, for instance, the perhaps 100 recordings Mr. Cohen says he made of people during his tenure working for Mr. Trump, recordings that federal investigators are surely poring over as part of the 290,000 documents and files they seized in their April raid last year. Indicting the whole Trump Organization as a “corrupt enterprise” could also help prosecutors address the thorny question of whether the president can be indicted in office; they could lay out a whole pattern of criminal activity, indict numerous players — including perhaps Trump family members — and leave the president himself as a named, unindicted co-conspirator. Such an action would allow investigators to make public all the known activity for Congress and the public to consider as part of impeachment hearings or re-election. It would also activate powerful forfeiture tools for prosecutors that could allow them to seize the Trump Organization’s assets and cut off its income streams. The irony will be that if federal prosecutors decide to move against President Trump’s empire and family together, he’ll have one man’s model to thank: his own TV lawyer, Rudy Giuliani, who perfected the template to tackle precisely that type of criminal enterprise. Garrett M. Graff (@vermontgmg) is a journalist, historian and the author of “The Threat Matrix: Inside Robert Mueller’s F.B.I. and the War on Global Terror.”  The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Supported by By Maggie Haberman and Robert Pear WASHINGTON — The Trump administration’s surprise decision to press for a court-ordered demolition of the Affordable Care Act came after a heated meeting in the Oval Office on Monday, where the president’s acting chief of staff and others convinced him that he could do through the courts what he could not do through Congress: repeal his predecessor’s signature achievement. Mick Mulvaney, the acting White House chief of staff and former South Carolina congressman, had spent years in the House saying that the health law should be repealed, and his handpicked head of the Domestic Policy Council, Joe Grogan, supported the idea of joining a Republican attorneys general lawsuit to invalidate the entire Affordable Care Act. That suit, and the Justice Department, initially pressed to nullify only the part of the law that forces insurance companies to cover people with pre-existing medical conditions as well as a suite of health benefits deemed “essential,” such as pregnancy and maternal health, mental health and prescription drugs. But a district judge in Texas ruled that the entire law was rendered unconstitutional when President Trump’s tax law brought the tax penalty for not having health insurance to zero, and the administration faced a choice: stick with its more limited intervention or back the judge’s decision. Mr. Trump has declared that he has kept his promises, Mr. Mulvaney and Mr. Grogan argued, and as a candidate he campaigned on repealing the health law. His base of voters would love it. Besides, they argued, Democrats have been campaigning successfully on health care, and Republicans should try to claim the issue for themselves. This could force the matter. Among those with concerns was Pat Cipollone, the White House counsel, who shared that the new attorney general, William P. Barr, opposed such a move. Vice President Mike Pence was worried about the political ramifications of moving ahead without a strategy or a plan to handle the millions who could be left suddenly uninsured if the suit succeeded. The health and human services secretary, Alex M. Azar II, was on speakerphone during the meeting and also voiced concern about the move, people familiar with the call said. And Marc Short, Mr. Pence’s chief of staff, suggested that it was risky for Mr. Trump’s administration to be at odds with so many Republican attorneys general on such a key issue. But Mr. Trump had been sold, and on Monday night, the Justice Department issued a letter saying it supported the Texas judge’s decision. The blowback has been severe. Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the House Republican leader, who is close with Mr. Trump, had privately warned the president not to interrupt the “victory lap” he should be taking after the delivery of the report by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III. Mr. Mueller, according to a letter by Mr. Barr, found no criminal conspiracy between the Trump campaign and the Russian government. The reaction was even more intense in the Senate. Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, had planned to use the week to publicize his floor vote to force Democrats to take a stand on progressives’ Green New Deal — an important party-building exercise for Republicans after Mr. Trump’s decision to declare an emergency at the border sparked an insurrection in their ranks this month. Members of Mr. McConnell’s leadership team were incensed at Mr. Mulvaney and allies like the acting White House budget director, Russell Vought, for rekindling a fight that served Democrats so well in 2018 and could harm vulnerable incumbents in 2020, according to two senior aides with direct knowledge of the situation. The maneuver may make it much less likely that Mr. Vought, the chief of staff’s handpicked successor to head the Office of Management and Budget, will be confirmed by the Senate, the aides said. And Democrats pressed their advantage. “The equivalent of a nuclear bomb fell on our country when the president said what he said this week,” Representative Anna G. Eshoo, Democrat of California, said Wednesday as her House subcommittee began pushing through health care legislation. “This is deadly serious.” But Mr. Trump doubled down while talking to reporters in the Oval Office. He predicted that the Texas decision would be upheld by the appeals court, then go to the Supreme Court. “If the Supreme Court rules that Obamacare is out, we’ll have a plan that is far better than Obamacare,” he said. [What happens if Obamacare is struck down? Read more.] White House press aides did not immediately respond to a request for comment. And one official, who asked for anonymity to speak about the meetings, insisted that Mr. Mulvaney had simply been convening people with various views so that the president could make his own decision. But Mr. Mulvaney was described as leading the charge to back the suit, in an account of the two meetings that was described by a half-dozen people with knowledge of what took place. Politico first reported that Mr. Mulvaney pushed Mr. Trump to get involved in the suit. Mr. Barr did not favor the move but did not object to the White House decision once it had been made, people familiar with what took place said. And one White House official said the administration faced a deadline imposed by the court if it wanted to support the suit. But the decision to thrust Mr. Trump’s administration so directly into the lawsuit caught several people inside the White House by surprise, and took the focus off what was arguably the best weekend of the Trump presidency. Mr. Trump did not seem to care about shifting the political focus toward an issue that Democrats far preferred to the aftermath of the Mueller report. He charged ahead at a Senate Republican luncheon, telling reporters as he went in, “Let me just tell you exactly what my message is: The Republican Party will soon be known as the party of health care. You watch.” But Republicans in Congress have no obvious road forward on legislation to replace the Affordable Care Act that could pass the Democrat-controlled House. And House leaders have little political incentive to bow to Republican wishes on health care, an issue that they believe delivered their House majority and that they are eager to campaign on in 2020. The Trump administration has tried to minimize and contain the Affordable Care Act over time. The president has been in favor of previous efforts to end the law. And Mr. Mulvaney has over time built up his internal political capital, and grown his team of loyalists. Mr. Mulvaney is the first ideological purist who has served as Mr. Trump’s chief of staff. His critics inside the West Wing say he has tilted the voices Mr. Trump hears in favor of those who will back his own views. As Republicans pointed fingers, House Democrats began moving legislation on Wednesday to ensure safeguards for people with pre-existing conditions and to hold down the costs of health insurance and prescription drugs. Ms. Eshoo, the chairwoman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, said the bills were needed to counter what she described as “a monstrous attack” on the health law by the Trump administration. Several Republicans on the panel distanced themselves from the administration’s position. “I’m not with the president on eliminating pre-existing conditions,” said Representative John Shimkus, Republican of Illinois. Republicans, he said, believe in protecting people with pre-existing conditions. The subcommittee approved a bill that would provide $100 million a year for insurance counselors known as navigators who help consumers enroll in health insurance plans under the Affordable Care Act. The Trump administration “has slashed, practically eliminated, funding for the navigators,” said Representative Kathy Castor, Democrat of Florida. Several Republicans said insurance agents and brokers were enrolling more people at a lower cost than the navigators, so the additional money was not needed. The panel also approved bills to outlaw two practices that have been used by brand-name drug companies to stifle competition and delay the sale of lower-cost generic medications. One measure would prohibit makers of brand-name drugs from paying off generic companies to delay sale of the less expensive products. Banning such “pay for delay” arrangements could save consumers billions of dollars over a decade, economists say. Another bill approved by the House panel would require brand-name drug companies to provide samples of their products to generic drug makers. Generic drug developers need samples of brand-name drugs to show that a generic copy is equivalent to the original. Dr. Scott Gottlieb, the commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration, has called on the industry to “end the shenanigans” that prevent consumers from getting access to low-cost generic drugs. The House panel also approved on a party-line vote a bill to provide federal money to states to help pay the largest health insurance claims. Democrats said such “reinsurance” programs would lower premiums, as shown by the experience of Minnesota, Alaska, Maryland and several other states. Republicans said they worried that federal funds would go to health plans that covered abortion. Glenn Thrush contributed reporting. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter. OpinionNicholas Bagley  

Supported by By Maggie Haberman and Robert Pear WASHINGTON — The Trump administration’s surprise decision to press for a court-ordered demolition of the Affordable Care Act came after a heated meeting in the Oval Office on Monday, where the president’s acting chief of staff and others convinced him that he could do through the courts what he could not do through Congress: repeal his predecessor’s signature achievement. Mick Mulvaney, the acting White House chief of staff and former South Carolina congressman, had spent years in the House saying that the health law should be repealed, and his handpicked head of the Domestic Policy Council, Joe Grogan, supported the idea of joining a Republican attorneys general lawsuit to invalidate the entire Affordable Care Act. That suit, and the Justice Department, initially pressed to nullify only the part of the law that forces insurance companies to cover people with pre-existing medical conditions as well as a suite of health benefits deemed “essential,” such as pregnancy and maternal health, mental health and prescription drugs. But a district judge in Texas ruled that the entire law was rendered unconstitutional when President Trump’s tax law brought the tax penalty for not having health insurance to zero, and the administration faced a choice: stick with its more limited intervention or back the judge’s decision. Mr. Trump has declared that he has kept his promises, Mr. Mulvaney and Mr. Grogan argued, and as a candidate he campaigned on repealing the health law. His base of voters would love it. Besides, they argued, Democrats have been campaigning successfully on health care, and Republicans should try to claim the issue for themselves. This could force the matter. Among those with concerns was Pat Cipollone, the White House counsel, who shared that the new attorney general, William P. Barr, opposed such a move. Vice President Mike Pence was worried about the political ramifications of moving ahead without a strategy or a plan to handle the millions who could be left suddenly uninsured if the suit succeeded. The health and human services secretary, Alex M. Azar II, was on speakerphone during the meeting and also voiced concern about the move, people familiar with the call said. And Marc Short, Mr. Pence’s chief of staff, suggested that it was risky for Mr. Trump’s administration to be at odds with so many Republican attorneys general on such a key issue. But Mr. Trump had been sold, and on Monday night, the Justice Department issued a letter saying it supported the Texas judge’s decision. The blowback has been severe. Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the House Republican leader, who is close with Mr. Trump, had privately warned the president not to interrupt the “victory lap” he should be taking after the delivery of the report by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III. Mr. Mueller, according to a letter by Mr. Barr, found no criminal conspiracy between the Trump campaign and the Russian government. The reaction was even more intense in the Senate. Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, had planned to use the week to publicize his floor vote to force Democrats to take a stand on progressives’ Green New Deal — an important party-building exercise for Republicans after Mr. Trump’s decision to declare an emergency at the border sparked an insurrection in their ranks this month. Members of Mr. McConnell’s leadership team were incensed at Mr. Mulvaney and allies like the acting White House budget director, Russell Vought, for rekindling a fight that served Democrats so well in 2018 and could harm vulnerable incumbents in 2020, according to two senior aides with direct knowledge of the situation. The maneuver may make it much less likely that Mr. Vought, the chief of staff’s handpicked successor to head the Office of Management and Budget, will be confirmed by the Senate, the aides said. And Democrats pressed their advantage. “The equivalent of a nuclear bomb fell on our country when the president said what he said this week,” Representative Anna G. Eshoo, Democrat of California, said Wednesday as her House subcommittee began pushing through health care legislation. “This is deadly serious.” But Mr. Trump doubled down while talking to reporters in the Oval Office. He predicted that the Texas decision would be upheld by the appeals court, then go to the Supreme Court. “If the Supreme Court rules that Obamacare is out, we’ll have a plan that is far better than Obamacare,” he said. [What happens if Obamacare is struck down? Read more.] White House press aides did not immediately respond to a request for comment. And one official, who asked for anonymity to speak about the meetings, insisted that Mr. Mulvaney had simply been convening people with various views so that the president could make his own decision. But Mr. Mulvaney was described as leading the charge to back the suit, in an account of the two meetings that was described by a half-dozen people with knowledge of what took place. Politico first reported that Mr. Mulvaney pushed Mr. Trump to get involved in the suit. Mr. Barr did not favor the move but did not object to the White House decision once it had been made, people familiar with what took place said. And one White House official said the administration faced a deadline imposed by the court if it wanted to support the suit. But the decision to thrust Mr. Trump’s administration so directly into the lawsuit caught several people inside the White House by surprise, and took the focus off what was arguably the best weekend of the Trump presidency. Mr. Trump did not seem to care about shifting the political focus toward an issue that Democrats far preferred to the aftermath of the Mueller report. He charged ahead at a Senate Republican luncheon, telling reporters as he went in, “Let me just tell you exactly what my message is: The Republican Party will soon be known as the party of health care. You watch.” But Republicans in Congress have no obvious road forward on legislation to replace the Affordable Care Act that could pass the Democrat-controlled House. And House leaders have little political incentive to bow to Republican wishes on health care, an issue that they believe delivered their House majority and that they are eager to campaign on in 2020. The Trump administration has tried to minimize and contain the Affordable Care Act over time. The president has been in favor of previous efforts to end the law. And Mr. Mulvaney has over time built up his internal political capital, and grown his team of loyalists. Mr. Mulvaney is the first ideological purist who has served as Mr. Trump’s chief of staff. His critics inside the West Wing say he has tilted the voices Mr. Trump hears in favor of those who will back his own views. As Republicans pointed fingers, House Democrats began moving legislation on Wednesday to ensure safeguards for people with pre-existing conditions and to hold down the costs of health insurance and prescription drugs. Ms. Eshoo, the chairwoman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, said the bills were needed to counter what she described as “a monstrous attack” on the health law by the Trump administration. Several Republicans on the panel distanced themselves from the administration’s position. “I’m not with the president on eliminating pre-existing conditions,” said Representative John Shimkus, Republican of Illinois. Republicans, he said, believe in protecting people with pre-existing conditions. The subcommittee approved a bill that would provide $100 million a year for insurance counselors known as navigators who help consumers enroll in health insurance plans under the Affordable Care Act. The Trump administration “has slashed, practically eliminated, funding for the navigators,” said Representative Kathy Castor, Democrat of Florida. Several Republicans said insurance agents and brokers were enrolling more people at a lower cost than the navigators, so the additional money was not needed. The panel also approved bills to outlaw two practices that have been used by brand-name drug companies to stifle competition and delay the sale of lower-cost generic medications. One measure would prohibit makers of brand-name drugs from paying off generic companies to delay sale of the less expensive products. Banning such “pay for delay” arrangements could save consumers billions of dollars over a decade, economists say. Another bill approved by the House panel would require brand-name drug companies to provide samples of their products to generic drug makers. Generic drug developers need samples of brand-name drugs to show that a generic copy is equivalent to the original. Dr. Scott Gottlieb, the commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration, has called on the industry to “end the shenanigans” that prevent consumers from getting access to low-cost generic drugs. The House panel also approved on a party-line vote a bill to provide federal money to states to help pay the largest health insurance claims. Democrats said such “reinsurance” programs would lower premiums, as shown by the experience of Minnesota, Alaska, Maryland and several other states. Republicans said they worried that federal funds would go to health plans that covered abortion. Glenn Thrush contributed reporting. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter. OpinionNicholas Bagley  Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — U.S. President Donald Trump believed the appointment of a special counsel to take over the federal probe of Russian interference into the 2016 election would spell the end of his presidency, according to the report by Special Counsel Robert Mueller.  When then-Attorney General Jeff Sessions informed Trump of Mueller's appointment in May 2017, the report said, Trump slumped back in his chair and said: "Oh my God. This is terrible. This is the end of my presidency. I'm fucked." Trump then asked Sessions, whom he had berated for months for recusing himself from the Russia probe: "How could you let this happen, Jeff?" and told Sessions he had let him down. Details of Mueller's investigation were released on Thursday, showing Trump tried to impede the probe, raising questions of whether he committed the crime of obstruction of justice. Sessions, who resigned in November, recalled that Trump said to him, "you were supposed to protect me," the report said.  The Republican president had bristled at the investigation since taking office in January 2017, belittling Sessions and calling the probe a witch hunt and a hoax. "Everyone tells me if you get one of these independent counsels it ruins your presidency," Trump said, according to the report. "It takes years and years and I won't be able to do anything. This is the worst thing that ever happened to me." A month after the appointment, in June 2017, Trump tried to get rid of Mueller, according to the report. He called White House counsel Don McGahn at home twice and told him to call Acting Attorney General Rod Rosenstein and say Mueller should be removed because of conflicts of interest, the report said. "You gotta do this. You gotta call Rod," McGahn recalled Trump as saying.  "McGahn did not carry out the direction, however, deciding that he would resign rather than trigger what he regarded as a potential Saturday Night Massacre," Mueller's report said, referring to the Watergate-era firing of key law enforcement officials by President Richard Nixon. Two days later, the report said, "the President made another attempt to affect the course of the Russia investigation." He asked former campaign manager Corey Lewandowski to tell Sessions he should announce publicly that the investigation was "very unfair" to Trump, that Trump had done nothing wrong and that Mueller may "move forward with investigating election meddling for future elections."  (Reporting by Ginger Gibson, Doina Chiacu; editing by Bill Rigby)

Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — U.S. President Donald Trump believed the appointment of a special counsel to take over the federal probe of Russian interference into the 2016 election would spell the end of his presidency, according to the report by Special Counsel Robert Mueller.  When then-Attorney General Jeff Sessions informed Trump of Mueller's appointment in May 2017, the report said, Trump slumped back in his chair and said: "Oh my God. This is terrible. This is the end of my presidency. I'm fucked." Trump then asked Sessions, whom he had berated for months for recusing himself from the Russia probe: "How could you let this happen, Jeff?" and told Sessions he had let him down. Details of Mueller's investigation were released on Thursday, showing Trump tried to impede the probe, raising questions of whether he committed the crime of obstruction of justice. Sessions, who resigned in November, recalled that Trump said to him, "you were supposed to protect me," the report said.  The Republican president had bristled at the investigation since taking office in January 2017, belittling Sessions and calling the probe a witch hunt and a hoax. "Everyone tells me if you get one of these independent counsels it ruins your presidency," Trump said, according to the report. "It takes years and years and I won't be able to do anything. This is the worst thing that ever happened to me." A month after the appointment, in June 2017, Trump tried to get rid of Mueller, according to the report. He called White House counsel Don McGahn at home twice and told him to call Acting Attorney General Rod Rosenstein and say Mueller should be removed because of conflicts of interest, the report said. "You gotta do this. You gotta call Rod," McGahn recalled Trump as saying.  "McGahn did not carry out the direction, however, deciding that he would resign rather than trigger what he regarded as a potential Saturday Night Massacre," Mueller's report said, referring to the Watergate-era firing of key law enforcement officials by President Richard Nixon. Two days later, the report said, "the President made another attempt to affect the course of the Russia investigation." He asked former campaign manager Corey Lewandowski to tell Sessions he should announce publicly that the investigation was "very unfair" to Trump, that Trump had done nothing wrong and that Mueller may "move forward with investigating election meddling for future elections."  (Reporting by Ginger Gibson, Doina Chiacu; editing by Bill Rigby)Supported by News Analysis By Mark Landler WASHINGTON — Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s vow for Israel to annex parts of the West Bank would flout four decades of American policy, under both Republican and Democratic presidents. But nothing emboldened Mr. Netanyahu to take such a risk more than the support of his ally President Trump. From recognizing Israel’s sovereignty over the Golan Heights to moving the United States Embassy to Jerusalem, Mr. Trump has given Mr. Netanyahu the political cover and legal legitimacy to embrace a position that critics say would all but extinguish the dream of a viable Palestinian state. Mr. Trump’s moves are not merely temporary gestures, which a future president or Israeli leader could reverse. They are policy changes that experts say have permanently altered the contested landscape of the Middle East, making his own stated goal of a peace agreement between Israel and the Palestinians more unattainable than ever. “They talk about a peace plan, but we never see it,” said Martin S. Indyk, a former American ambassador to Israel who tried to negotiate a deal between Israel and the Palestinians during the Obama administration. “What we see are new facts on the ground that will make a two-state solution impossible.” The White House declined to comment on Monday on Mr. Netanyahu’s latest remarks. Partly, this reflected qualms about speaking out on a delicate diplomatic issue on the eve of an Israeli election. But it also revealed the extent to which Mr. Trump has become Mr. Netanyahu’s biggest enabler. For Mr. Trump, who has talked about brokering a “deal of the century” between Israel and the Palestinians, Mr. Netanyahu’s aggressive move could pose a long-term problem. There is no obvious alternative to a two-state solution, however bleak its prospects. If Mr. Netanyahu is re-elected and follows through on his promise to annex territory, it would force the United States to retire a diplomatic strategy that dates to President Richard M. Nixon. Mr. Trump continues to promote the idea of a peace accord, placing his hope in a blueprint drafted by three of his senior aides: Jared Kushner, his son-in-law and senior adviser; Jason D. Greenblatt, his special envoy for Middle East peace; and David M. Friedman, the American ambassador to Israel. The Trump administration, officials said, still intends to present the plan sometime after the Israeli election. “A big thing for me, and some of you won’t like this maybe, but I would love to see peace in the Middle East,” Mr. Trump said Saturday at a meeting of the Republican Jewish Coalition in Las Vegas. “If those three can’t do it, you’ll never have it done.” The setting captured the tension between Mr. Trump’s diplomatic ambitions and his domestic political imperatives. Acknowledging that the audience might not welcome a peacemaking effort that required compromises by Israel, he spent most of his time taking credit for decisions like the Jerusalem embassy and Golan Heights, which are popular with right-wing Jews and evangelical voters. In Israel, meanwhile, Mr. Netanyahu suggested that he had the tacit backing of Mr. Trump to annex Jewish settlements in the West Bank. The prime minister told Israeli news media over the weekend that the White House was aware of his plans and said that he hoped to “do it, if possible, with American support,” though he added that he would not change his position, regardless of how the United States reacted. There was little in Washington’s silence to indicate that Mr. Netanyahu would face pushback. At every step of the prime minister’s hard-fought campaign to stay in power, Mr. Trump has tried to help him. The president’s announcement on the Golan Heights last month came at a critical moment, when Mr. Netanyahu faced a rising opponent and damaging new disclosures in the corruption cases against him. Even Mr. Trump’s announcement on Monday that the State Department would designate the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps a foreign terrorist organization paid dividends for Mr. Netanyahu. On his Hebrew-language Twitter feed, Mr. Netanyahu thanked Mr. Trump for “keeping the world safe from Iran aggression and terrorism.” Mr. Trump has wrapped Mr. Netanyahu in a warm embrace from the beginning of his presidency, even as he has voiced mild support for a two-state solution. “That’s what I think works best,” he said last fall during a meeting with the prime minister at the United Nations General Assembly. While Mr. Trump’s moves have been unstintingly pro-Israel, some could also be interpreted as a way to pressure the Palestinians to come back to the bargaining table. The administration cut off aid to Palestinian groups, closed its diplomatic office in Washington and ended funding for a United Nations agency that helps Palestinian refugees. None of that persuaded the Palestinians to reopen a dialogue with the United States that was cut off after Mr. Trump announced the embassy move in late 2017. The threat of annexation, experts said, might be the last form of leverage the United States has over the Palestinians. Unless they agree to a peace deal, the United States could give Mr. Netanyahu a green light to claim territory. “The one issue that clearly opened a Pandora’s box was the Golan Heights announcement,” said Ghaith al-Omari, a former Palestinian negotiator. “Once they broke that particular taboo, they opened the door for all the annexationists in Israel to say, ‘Now go for the West Bank.’” Whatever his election-eve theatrics, some analysts argue that Mr. Netanyahu would be loath to take such a radical step. They say he is motivated less by a desire to upend decades of diplomacy than by his own political survival. Dangling the prospect of annexation is a way to nail down the support of smaller right-wing parties, which he will need to form a government. “He’s smart enough to realize that if he goes through with this, he is creating with his own hands a Bosnia on the Mediterranean,” said David Makovsky, a senior fellow at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy. But Mr. Makovsky acknowledged that if the Trump administration presented its plan and was rebuffed by the Palestinians — a scenario he and other veterans of peace negotiations view as likely — Mr. Netanyahu could use that as a pretext for selective annexation of large settlements. Mr. Trump’s aides have kept a tight lid on the details and timing of their plan. Some analysts speculated that they might introduce it after the election, but before the victor forms a government, so as to influence the makeup of the new coalition. That scenario now seems less likely, given Mr. Netanyahu’s weakened position, because he will probably have to reach out to right-wing parties to form a government — and none of those are interested in a Palestinian state. Some former diplomats argue that the intense focus on the peace plan misses the point: The Trump administration has utterly transformed the paradigm for American engagement in the Middle East. “What we’re watching in terms of American policy is a shell game,” said Daniel C. Kurtzer, a former American ambassador to Israel and Egypt. “They want you to watch the peace plan — it’s 40 pages long; it’s 60 pages long. What they don’t want you to watch is how they are trying extraordinarily hard, under cover of the plan, to change things on the ground.”

Supported by News Analysis By Mark Landler WASHINGTON — Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s vow for Israel to annex parts of the West Bank would flout four decades of American policy, under both Republican and Democratic presidents. But nothing emboldened Mr. Netanyahu to take such a risk more than the support of his ally President Trump. From recognizing Israel’s sovereignty over the Golan Heights to moving the United States Embassy to Jerusalem, Mr. Trump has given Mr. Netanyahu the political cover and legal legitimacy to embrace a position that critics say would all but extinguish the dream of a viable Palestinian state. Mr. Trump’s moves are not merely temporary gestures, which a future president or Israeli leader could reverse. They are policy changes that experts say have permanently altered the contested landscape of the Middle East, making his own stated goal of a peace agreement between Israel and the Palestinians more unattainable than ever. “They talk about a peace plan, but we never see it,” said Martin S. Indyk, a former American ambassador to Israel who tried to negotiate a deal between Israel and the Palestinians during the Obama administration. “What we see are new facts on the ground that will make a two-state solution impossible.” The White House declined to comment on Monday on Mr. Netanyahu’s latest remarks. Partly, this reflected qualms about speaking out on a delicate diplomatic issue on the eve of an Israeli election. But it also revealed the extent to which Mr. Trump has become Mr. Netanyahu’s biggest enabler. For Mr. Trump, who has talked about brokering a “deal of the century” between Israel and the Palestinians, Mr. Netanyahu’s aggressive move could pose a long-term problem. There is no obvious alternative to a two-state solution, however bleak its prospects. If Mr. Netanyahu is re-elected and follows through on his promise to annex territory, it would force the United States to retire a diplomatic strategy that dates to President Richard M. Nixon. Mr. Trump continues to promote the idea of a peace accord, placing his hope in a blueprint drafted by three of his senior aides: Jared Kushner, his son-in-law and senior adviser; Jason D. Greenblatt, his special envoy for Middle East peace; and David M. Friedman, the American ambassador to Israel. The Trump administration, officials said, still intends to present the plan sometime after the Israeli election. “A big thing for me, and some of you won’t like this maybe, but I would love to see peace in the Middle East,” Mr. Trump said Saturday at a meeting of the Republican Jewish Coalition in Las Vegas. “If those three can’t do it, you’ll never have it done.” The setting captured the tension between Mr. Trump’s diplomatic ambitions and his domestic political imperatives. Acknowledging that the audience might not welcome a peacemaking effort that required compromises by Israel, he spent most of his time taking credit for decisions like the Jerusalem embassy and Golan Heights, which are popular with right-wing Jews and evangelical voters. In Israel, meanwhile, Mr. Netanyahu suggested that he had the tacit backing of Mr. Trump to annex Jewish settlements in the West Bank. The prime minister told Israeli news media over the weekend that the White House was aware of his plans and said that he hoped to “do it, if possible, with American support,” though he added that he would not change his position, regardless of how the United States reacted. There was little in Washington’s silence to indicate that Mr. Netanyahu would face pushback. At every step of the prime minister’s hard-fought campaign to stay in power, Mr. Trump has tried to help him. The president’s announcement on the Golan Heights last month came at a critical moment, when Mr. Netanyahu faced a rising opponent and damaging new disclosures in the corruption cases against him. Even Mr. Trump’s announcement on Monday that the State Department would designate the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps a foreign terrorist organization paid dividends for Mr. Netanyahu. On his Hebrew-language Twitter feed, Mr. Netanyahu thanked Mr. Trump for “keeping the world safe from Iran aggression and terrorism.” Mr. Trump has wrapped Mr. Netanyahu in a warm embrace from the beginning of his presidency, even as he has voiced mild support for a two-state solution. “That’s what I think works best,” he said last fall during a meeting with the prime minister at the United Nations General Assembly. While Mr. Trump’s moves have been unstintingly pro-Israel, some could also be interpreted as a way to pressure the Palestinians to come back to the bargaining table. The administration cut off aid to Palestinian groups, closed its diplomatic office in Washington and ended funding for a United Nations agency that helps Palestinian refugees. None of that persuaded the Palestinians to reopen a dialogue with the United States that was cut off after Mr. Trump announced the embassy move in late 2017. The threat of annexation, experts said, might be the last form of leverage the United States has over the Palestinians. Unless they agree to a peace deal, the United States could give Mr. Netanyahu a green light to claim territory. “The one issue that clearly opened a Pandora’s box was the Golan Heights announcement,” said Ghaith al-Omari, a former Palestinian negotiator. “Once they broke that particular taboo, they opened the door for all the annexationists in Israel to say, ‘Now go for the West Bank.’” Whatever his election-eve theatrics, some analysts argue that Mr. Netanyahu would be loath to take such a radical step. They say he is motivated less by a desire to upend decades of diplomacy than by his own political survival. Dangling the prospect of annexation is a way to nail down the support of smaller right-wing parties, which he will need to form a government. “He’s smart enough to realize that if he goes through with this, he is creating with his own hands a Bosnia on the Mediterranean,” said David Makovsky, a senior fellow at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy. But Mr. Makovsky acknowledged that if the Trump administration presented its plan and was rebuffed by the Palestinians — a scenario he and other veterans of peace negotiations view as likely — Mr. Netanyahu could use that as a pretext for selective annexation of large settlements. Mr. Trump’s aides have kept a tight lid on the details and timing of their plan. Some analysts speculated that they might introduce it after the election, but before the victor forms a government, so as to influence the makeup of the new coalition. That scenario now seems less likely, given Mr. Netanyahu’s weakened position, because he will probably have to reach out to right-wing parties to form a government — and none of those are interested in a Palestinian state. Some former diplomats argue that the intense focus on the peace plan misses the point: The Trump administration has utterly transformed the paradigm for American engagement in the Middle East. “What we’re watching in terms of American policy is a shell game,” said Daniel C. Kurtzer, a former American ambassador to Israel and Egypt. “They want you to watch the peace plan — it’s 40 pages long; it’s 60 pages long. What they don’t want you to watch is how they are trying extraordinarily hard, under cover of the plan, to change things on the ground.”Supported by The president decides that fulfilling a campaign promise is more important than respecting the separation of powers.  By The Editorial Board The editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section. This editorial was updated. With his declaration of a national emergency at the southern border, President Trump takes executive overreach to dizzying new heights. The damage to American democracy threatens to linger long after his administration is no more than a dank memory. Cornered into accepting a budget deal that lacked the $5.7 billion in border-wall funding he demanded, the president could not handle being labeled a loser by conservative commentators like Laura Ingraham and Sean Hannity. His solution: Sign the bill while simultaneously declaring a national emergency that, at least in his mind, would allow him to shift funds and order the military to start building his wall. Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, announced the move on Thursday afternoon. “President Trump will sign the government funding bill, and as he has stated before, he will also take other executive action — including a national emergency — to ensure we stop the national security and humanitarian crisis at the border,” she said.  To repeat: The influx of migrant families at the southern border does not constitute a national security crisis, much less a bona fide emergency. There is, at this point, a worsening humanitarian crisis, actively fueled by the draconian policies of the administration. But the suffering on display requires thoughtful policy adjustments, not a steel monstrosity. Not that this is the end of this battle. Mr. Trump’s emergency declaration is destined to wind up in the courts, where it could get bogged down indefinitely.  This fit of presidential pique is about more than a wall. It constitutes a reordering of the power dynamic between the branches of government. Mr. Trump aims to usurp one of Congress’s most basic responsibilities, the power of the purse. Confronted with this power grab, every lawmaker should be bellowing in alarm. Until recently, the threat of an “imperial presidency” was of grave constitutional concern to Republicans, who spent much of President Barack Obama’s tenure accusing him of misusing executive authority on, among other matters, immigration, health care and the environment. To their credit, a few Republican lawmakers have been warning against an emergency declaration for weeks. “I believe the president does have the legal authority — if you read the statute. I also think it would be a poor use of that authority,” Representative David Schweikert, a member of the conservative House Freedom Caucus, told Politico in January. Senator Marco Rubio was more emphatic. “If today the national emergency is border security, tomorrow the national emergency might be climate change.” The reaction of the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, to Mr. Trump’s intentions will do nothing to calm Republican jitters. “Just think of what a president with different values can present to the American people,” she observed.  The poison cherry atop this sundae is that Mr. Trump is subverting American democracy for a cause opposed by a majority of the public. Polls show that most Americans do not want a wall at the southern border. And most definitely do not approve of Mr. Trump’s faking a national emergency to make an end run around Congress. Two recent polls showed that two-thirds of Americans opposed it. Not that any of this seems of interest to the president. “I have the absolute right to do national emergency if I want,” he insisted to reporters last month, sounding more like a huffy kindergartner than a world leader. This administration is forever coming up with creative new ways to disturb and dismay the nation. Mr. Trump’s eagerness to undermine the Constitution to serve his short-term political gain remains among the most outrageous. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported by The president decides that fulfilling a campaign promise is more important than respecting the separation of powers.  By The Editorial Board The editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section. This editorial was updated. With his declaration of a national emergency at the southern border, President Trump takes executive overreach to dizzying new heights. The damage to American democracy threatens to linger long after his administration is no more than a dank memory. Cornered into accepting a budget deal that lacked the $5.7 billion in border-wall funding he demanded, the president could not handle being labeled a loser by conservative commentators like Laura Ingraham and Sean Hannity. His solution: Sign the bill while simultaneously declaring a national emergency that, at least in his mind, would allow him to shift funds and order the military to start building his wall. Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, announced the move on Thursday afternoon. “President Trump will sign the government funding bill, and as he has stated before, he will also take other executive action — including a national emergency — to ensure we stop the national security and humanitarian crisis at the border,” she said.  To repeat: The influx of migrant families at the southern border does not constitute a national security crisis, much less a bona fide emergency. There is, at this point, a worsening humanitarian crisis, actively fueled by the draconian policies of the administration. But the suffering on display requires thoughtful policy adjustments, not a steel monstrosity. Not that this is the end of this battle. Mr. Trump’s emergency declaration is destined to wind up in the courts, where it could get bogged down indefinitely.  This fit of presidential pique is about more than a wall. It constitutes a reordering of the power dynamic between the branches of government. Mr. Trump aims to usurp one of Congress’s most basic responsibilities, the power of the purse. Confronted with this power grab, every lawmaker should be bellowing in alarm. Until recently, the threat of an “imperial presidency” was of grave constitutional concern to Republicans, who spent much of President Barack Obama’s tenure accusing him of misusing executive authority on, among other matters, immigration, health care and the environment. To their credit, a few Republican lawmakers have been warning against an emergency declaration for weeks. “I believe the president does have the legal authority — if you read the statute. I also think it would be a poor use of that authority,” Representative David Schweikert, a member of the conservative House Freedom Caucus, told Politico in January. Senator Marco Rubio was more emphatic. “If today the national emergency is border security, tomorrow the national emergency might be climate change.” The reaction of the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, to Mr. Trump’s intentions will do nothing to calm Republican jitters. “Just think of what a president with different values can present to the American people,” she observed.  The poison cherry atop this sundae is that Mr. Trump is subverting American democracy for a cause opposed by a majority of the public. Polls show that most Americans do not want a wall at the southern border. And most definitely do not approve of Mr. Trump’s faking a national emergency to make an end run around Congress. Two recent polls showed that two-thirds of Americans opposed it. Not that any of this seems of interest to the president. “I have the absolute right to do national emergency if I want,” he insisted to reporters last month, sounding more like a huffy kindergartner than a world leader. This administration is forever coming up with creative new ways to disturb and dismay the nation. Mr. Trump’s eagerness to undermine the Constitution to serve his short-term political gain remains among the most outrageous. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Supported by By Annie Karni and Maggie Haberman WASHINGTON — The case was closed for President Trump on March 24, the day Attorney General William P. Barr delivered to Congress his four-page summary of the special counsel’s 300-plus page report. “No Collusion, No Obstruction, Complete and Total EXONERATION,” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter that day. And in the weeks that followed, the president’s message of vindication and revenge on his political antagonists has only intensified, as he has expressed no interest in reading the full report and leveled charges of treason against Democratic lawmakers. Mr. Barr’s letter effectively emboldened Mr. Trump, aides said, even as they prepare for new details to emerge from a redacted version of the report — expected this week — that could renew questions about the president’s fitness for office, and even as some of them cringe at Mr. Trump’s choice of the word “exonerate.” (Privately, they admit, they would prefer he use the word “vindicate.”) But Mr. Trump’s mood has been lighter since the report was filed, people close to him said, even though neither he nor his White House lawyers have seen the full document, or at this point plan to do so before it is released to Congress and to the public. People close to Mr. Trump said they have noticed an increase in his confidence after he spent months feeling weighed down by a loss of control. “When they began to go after people he knew personally, who had worked for him for years, I think it gnawed at him, and I think he felt helpless,” said Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker and a confidant of Mr. Trump’s. But since Mr. Barr issued his letter, the president has felt liberated and has been testing his bounds. He has poked fun at Joseph R. Biden Jr., the former vice president considering a presidential run, for his handsy approach to politics, despite his own troubled history with women. He has floated the idea of a pardon for Kevin McAleenan, now his acting homeland security secretary, if he encountered any legal problems in shutting the southwestern border. And he has heightened his attacks on the press beyond his normal refrain of “fake news,” falsely claiming that journalists are “knowingly” bending the truth. Now, as Mr. Barr prepares to submit a redacted version of the report, Mr. Trump’s plan of attack, aides said, is to act as if the report itself is extraneous to Mr. Barr’s brief letter. “The bottom line: The result is no collusion, no obstruction, and that’s the way it is,” the president told reporters on Thursday. He said that Democrats “know it’s all a big scam, a big hoax” and that he believed what they were doing was “actually treason.” Days earlier, en route to Texas, Mr. Trump told reporters: “I don’t care about the Mueller report. I’ve been totally exonerated.” Mr. Trump is purposefully escalating his language, people who know him said, expressly to enliven his base of supporters and to enrage his political rivals and the news media. He has revived an idea that his administration rejected — sending immigrant detainees to so-called sanctuary cities — in part, people close to him said, to distract from the report. “The president clearly feels vindicated now that the Mueller report is completed,” said Eric Bolling, a former Fox News host, who recently taped a radio interview with Mr. Trump. “He will continue to remind the American people he was correct about there being no evidence of collusion with Russia.” Other outside surrogates have been echoing Mr. Trump’s line — that the narrative has already been established and it is too late for new facts to change that — even though members of the special counsel’s team have expressed concern that Mr. Barr’s letter did not accurately portray the contents of the report. “The facts are that there was no collusion between the 2016 Trump campaign and Russia, no obstruction of justice and President Trump has been fully vindicated,” said Boris Epshteyn, a former White House aide who now serves as the chief political commentator for Sinclair Broadcast Group. “No amount of spin by the opponents is going to change that.” But critics said the strategy is classic Trump — effective with a narrow audience, but ultimately self-limiting. “He will probably have succeeded in setting the narrative for his core supporters and hardening their attitudes, but at the expense of anyone else believing him when the report comes out and inevitably undermines what he’s been claiming,” said Matthew Miller, a Justice Department spokesman under former President Barack Obama. “The same things that solidify his base just prevent him from expanding beyond it at all.” Neal K. Katyal, who served as acting solicitor general in the Obama administration, said that such an approach could backfire. “Whatever Trump may have thought when he claimed total exoneration two weeks ago, subsequent events strongly suggest that claim will fall flat on its face,” he said. “And because Trump claimed total exoneration from the report, he created massive public pressure for the full report to be released.” Inside the White House, there is only a bare-bones plan in place for how to handle the release of the redacted report, people familiar with the matter said. Emmet T. Flood, the White House counsel, is expected to spend the day reading the report and to brief the president on its findings. The White House has not asked to read the report in advance, and aides are planning to speed read. They intend to all but skip the sections related to potential criminal conspiracy, and instead zoom in on two outstanding questions that Mr. Trump himself wants to ignore: why Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, was not able to conclude whether Mr. Trump obstructed justice, and what the attorney general meant when he wrote in his letter that “much” of the president’s conduct was public — meaning some of it was not. But many acknowledge they are still operating largely in the dark, with guesswork about what the report will reveal about Mr. Trump’s behavior in office. Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer, Jay Sekulow, would not disclose how the legal team plans to address the report, but he said it would be similar to how the White House responded after Mr. Barr sent his summary to Congress. “Our goal is to respond as quick as we can; given the length of the report, it may take some time to respond,” Mr. Sekulow said. “But we have a plan in place to respond in a professional manner as quickly and appropriately as possible.” Mr. Trump’s top aides and some relatives have also been eager for their own vindication. After months of being mocked by reporters for his seemingly off-script moments, Rudolph W. Giuliani, one of the president’s lawyers, recently texted an article in The Federalist titled “Rudy Giuliani Knew Exactly What He Was Doing” to a wide list of journalists. Jared Kushner, the president’s son-in-law and a senior White House adviser, who was believed to have been a focus of investigators, made a rare appearance on Fox News last week and insisted he never had any real concern. “I was never worried, because I never thought the notion that we did that,” Mr. Kushner said, referring to whether the campaign conspired with Russia to win the 2016 presidential election. “We ran a great campaign. The president had a great message, and that’s why we won.” Mr. Kushner, who faced difficulties getting a security clearance and was ultimately granted one on the president’s orders, added, “Over the last few years that I’ve been here, I’ve been accused of all different types of things, and all of those things have turned out to be false.” The White House press secretary, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, appearing on “Fox News Sunday,” reinforced the idea that Mr. Trump has been emboldened by Mr. Barr’s summary, pushing back when the show’s host, Chris Wallace, asked, “How are you going to deal with some evidence that’s going to come out in this report that clearly is going to be damaging to the president?” “I don’t think it is going to be damaging,” Ms. Sanders said. “We consider this to be case closed.” Annie Karni reported from Washington, and Maggie Haberman from New York. Chris Cameron contributed reporting from Washington. video 

Supported by By Annie Karni and Maggie Haberman WASHINGTON — The case was closed for President Trump on March 24, the day Attorney General William P. Barr delivered to Congress his four-page summary of the special counsel’s 300-plus page report. “No Collusion, No Obstruction, Complete and Total EXONERATION,” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter that day. And in the weeks that followed, the president’s message of vindication and revenge on his political antagonists has only intensified, as he has expressed no interest in reading the full report and leveled charges of treason against Democratic lawmakers. Mr. Barr’s letter effectively emboldened Mr. Trump, aides said, even as they prepare for new details to emerge from a redacted version of the report — expected this week — that could renew questions about the president’s fitness for office, and even as some of them cringe at Mr. Trump’s choice of the word “exonerate.” (Privately, they admit, they would prefer he use the word “vindicate.”) But Mr. Trump’s mood has been lighter since the report was filed, people close to him said, even though neither he nor his White House lawyers have seen the full document, or at this point plan to do so before it is released to Congress and to the public. People close to Mr. Trump said they have noticed an increase in his confidence after he spent months feeling weighed down by a loss of control. “When they began to go after people he knew personally, who had worked for him for years, I think it gnawed at him, and I think he felt helpless,” said Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker and a confidant of Mr. Trump’s. But since Mr. Barr issued his letter, the president has felt liberated and has been testing his bounds. He has poked fun at Joseph R. Biden Jr., the former vice president considering a presidential run, for his handsy approach to politics, despite his own troubled history with women. He has floated the idea of a pardon for Kevin McAleenan, now his acting homeland security secretary, if he encountered any legal problems in shutting the southwestern border. And he has heightened his attacks on the press beyond his normal refrain of “fake news,” falsely claiming that journalists are “knowingly” bending the truth. Now, as Mr. Barr prepares to submit a redacted version of the report, Mr. Trump’s plan of attack, aides said, is to act as if the report itself is extraneous to Mr. Barr’s brief letter. “The bottom line: The result is no collusion, no obstruction, and that’s the way it is,” the president told reporters on Thursday. He said that Democrats “know it’s all a big scam, a big hoax” and that he believed what they were doing was “actually treason.” Days earlier, en route to Texas, Mr. Trump told reporters: “I don’t care about the Mueller report. I’ve been totally exonerated.” Mr. Trump is purposefully escalating his language, people who know him said, expressly to enliven his base of supporters and to enrage his political rivals and the news media. He has revived an idea that his administration rejected — sending immigrant detainees to so-called sanctuary cities — in part, people close to him said, to distract from the report. “The president clearly feels vindicated now that the Mueller report is completed,” said Eric Bolling, a former Fox News host, who recently taped a radio interview with Mr. Trump. “He will continue to remind the American people he was correct about there being no evidence of collusion with Russia.” Other outside surrogates have been echoing Mr. Trump’s line — that the narrative has already been established and it is too late for new facts to change that — even though members of the special counsel’s team have expressed concern that Mr. Barr’s letter did not accurately portray the contents of the report. “The facts are that there was no collusion between the 2016 Trump campaign and Russia, no obstruction of justice and President Trump has been fully vindicated,” said Boris Epshteyn, a former White House aide who now serves as the chief political commentator for Sinclair Broadcast Group. “No amount of spin by the opponents is going to change that.” But critics said the strategy is classic Trump — effective with a narrow audience, but ultimately self-limiting. “He will probably have succeeded in setting the narrative for his core supporters and hardening their attitudes, but at the expense of anyone else believing him when the report comes out and inevitably undermines what he’s been claiming,” said Matthew Miller, a Justice Department spokesman under former President Barack Obama. “The same things that solidify his base just prevent him from expanding beyond it at all.” Neal K. Katyal, who served as acting solicitor general in the Obama administration, said that such an approach could backfire. “Whatever Trump may have thought when he claimed total exoneration two weeks ago, subsequent events strongly suggest that claim will fall flat on its face,” he said. “And because Trump claimed total exoneration from the report, he created massive public pressure for the full report to be released.” Inside the White House, there is only a bare-bones plan in place for how to handle the release of the redacted report, people familiar with the matter said. Emmet T. Flood, the White House counsel, is expected to spend the day reading the report and to brief the president on its findings. The White House has not asked to read the report in advance, and aides are planning to speed read. They intend to all but skip the sections related to potential criminal conspiracy, and instead zoom in on two outstanding questions that Mr. Trump himself wants to ignore: why Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, was not able to conclude whether Mr. Trump obstructed justice, and what the attorney general meant when he wrote in his letter that “much” of the president’s conduct was public — meaning some of it was not. But many acknowledge they are still operating largely in the dark, with guesswork about what the report will reveal about Mr. Trump’s behavior in office. Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer, Jay Sekulow, would not disclose how the legal team plans to address the report, but he said it would be similar to how the White House responded after Mr. Barr sent his summary to Congress. “Our goal is to respond as quick as we can; given the length of the report, it may take some time to respond,” Mr. Sekulow said. “But we have a plan in place to respond in a professional manner as quickly and appropriately as possible.” Mr. Trump’s top aides and some relatives have also been eager for their own vindication. After months of being mocked by reporters for his seemingly off-script moments, Rudolph W. Giuliani, one of the president’s lawyers, recently texted an article in The Federalist titled “Rudy Giuliani Knew Exactly What He Was Doing” to a wide list of journalists. Jared Kushner, the president’s son-in-law and a senior White House adviser, who was believed to have been a focus of investigators, made a rare appearance on Fox News last week and insisted he never had any real concern. “I was never worried, because I never thought the notion that we did that,” Mr. Kushner said, referring to whether the campaign conspired with Russia to win the 2016 presidential election. “We ran a great campaign. The president had a great message, and that’s why we won.” Mr. Kushner, who faced difficulties getting a security clearance and was ultimately granted one on the president’s orders, added, “Over the last few years that I’ve been here, I’ve been accused of all different types of things, and all of those things have turned out to be false.” The White House press secretary, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, appearing on “Fox News Sunday,” reinforced the idea that Mr. Trump has been emboldened by Mr. Barr’s summary, pushing back when the show’s host, Chris Wallace, asked, “How are you going to deal with some evidence that’s going to come out in this report that clearly is going to be damaging to the president?” “I don’t think it is going to be damaging,” Ms. Sanders said. “We consider this to be case closed.” Annie Karni reported from Washington, and Maggie Haberman from New York. Chris Cameron contributed reporting from Washington. video Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — It was a punt that will be examined for years, if not decades. Special counsel Robert Mueller found he couldn't exonerate President Donald Trump of obstruction of justice, but he wouldn't recommend charging him, either. In explaining the decision to eschew a "traditional prosecutorial judgment," Mueller said he faced not only having to untangle Trump's motivation for trying to curtail the Russia investigation but difficult issues of law. That included the Justice Department's position that a sitting president can't be indicted, the basic tenets of fairness in the American criminal justice system and whether some acts fell within the power of the presidency. Mueller found that Trump made numerous attempts to interfere with the investigation but he was largely foiled — and saved— by those around him, most notably former White House counsel Don McGahn. He and others either refused to follow Trump's orders or let them die quietly through inaction. But in examining a series of episodes, Mueller laid out a process that will almost certainly be questioned during any congressional testimony and be debated in law school classrooms and bars for years to come. From the outset, Mueller said he was bound by the Justice Department's opinion: He couldn't indict Trump. He also felt he couldn't recommend criminal charges even in a secret Justice Department memo or in a charging document filed under seal until after Trump left office. Mueller's team worried such moves could leak, leaving Trump in the position of having a prosecutor say he committed a crime without the ability to defend himself at a public trial. "The concerns about the fairness of such a determination would be heightened in the case of a sitting President, where a federal prosecutor's accusation of a crime, even in an internal report, could carry consequences that extend beyond the realm of criminal justice," Mueller wrote. Mueller said he recognized that any charging recommendation could "potentially pre-empt constitutional processes for addressing presidential misconduct," an apparent reference to Congress' impeachment powers. But Mueller rejected Trump's lawyers' broad interpretation of presidential authority. They argued that the president has expansive powers under the law, and the special counsel couldn't investigate Trump's decisions to fire an appointee, such as FBI Director James Comey, or to try to close a federal investigation. Mueller said he could investigate Trump and he thoroughly examined 10 episodes looking at whether there was an "obstructive act" and whether Trump had a corrupt intent. Ultimately, he laid out the facts, finding that while there wasn't an underlying crime of Russian collusion, Trump still took steps that "were capable of exerting undue influence over law enforcement investigations." "The President's efforts to influence the investigation were mostly unsuccessful," Mueller wrote, "but that is largely because the persons who surrounded the President declined to carry out orders or accede to his requests." Josh Blackman, a professor at the South Texas College of Law Houston, said to find that the president obstructed justice, Mueller needed much clearer evidence that the president acted solely with "corrupt intent." But Nick Akerman, a former federal prosecutor who served as a member of the Watergate prosecution team, said Attorney General William Barr, who cleared Trump of obstruction of justice, had "no business" doing so. "There's just so much here it's just impossible not to conclude that he was guilty of obstruction of justice," said Akerman, who had not yet gotten through all of the report. Still, he said Mueller was bound by the Justice Department's position that a sitting president can't be indicted. "He charged people he could charge," he said. "He couldn't charge Trump." ___ Associated Press writers Zeke Miller and Eric Tucker contributed to this report.

Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — It was a punt that will be examined for years, if not decades. Special counsel Robert Mueller found he couldn't exonerate President Donald Trump of obstruction of justice, but he wouldn't recommend charging him, either. In explaining the decision to eschew a "traditional prosecutorial judgment," Mueller said he faced not only having to untangle Trump's motivation for trying to curtail the Russia investigation but difficult issues of law. That included the Justice Department's position that a sitting president can't be indicted, the basic tenets of fairness in the American criminal justice system and whether some acts fell within the power of the presidency. Mueller found that Trump made numerous attempts to interfere with the investigation but he was largely foiled — and saved— by those around him, most notably former White House counsel Don McGahn. He and others either refused to follow Trump's orders or let them die quietly through inaction. But in examining a series of episodes, Mueller laid out a process that will almost certainly be questioned during any congressional testimony and be debated in law school classrooms and bars for years to come. From the outset, Mueller said he was bound by the Justice Department's opinion: He couldn't indict Trump. He also felt he couldn't recommend criminal charges even in a secret Justice Department memo or in a charging document filed under seal until after Trump left office. Mueller's team worried such moves could leak, leaving Trump in the position of having a prosecutor say he committed a crime without the ability to defend himself at a public trial. "The concerns about the fairness of such a determination would be heightened in the case of a sitting President, where a federal prosecutor's accusation of a crime, even in an internal report, could carry consequences that extend beyond the realm of criminal justice," Mueller wrote. Mueller said he recognized that any charging recommendation could "potentially pre-empt constitutional processes for addressing presidential misconduct," an apparent reference to Congress' impeachment powers. But Mueller rejected Trump's lawyers' broad interpretation of presidential authority. They argued that the president has expansive powers under the law, and the special counsel couldn't investigate Trump's decisions to fire an appointee, such as FBI Director James Comey, or to try to close a federal investigation. Mueller said he could investigate Trump and he thoroughly examined 10 episodes looking at whether there was an "obstructive act" and whether Trump had a corrupt intent. Ultimately, he laid out the facts, finding that while there wasn't an underlying crime of Russian collusion, Trump still took steps that "were capable of exerting undue influence over law enforcement investigations." "The President's efforts to influence the investigation were mostly unsuccessful," Mueller wrote, "but that is largely because the persons who surrounded the President declined to carry out orders or accede to his requests." Josh Blackman, a professor at the South Texas College of Law Houston, said to find that the president obstructed justice, Mueller needed much clearer evidence that the president acted solely with "corrupt intent." But Nick Akerman, a former federal prosecutor who served as a member of the Watergate prosecution team, said Attorney General William Barr, who cleared Trump of obstruction of justice, had "no business" doing so. "There's just so much here it's just impossible not to conclude that he was guilty of obstruction of justice," said Akerman, who had not yet gotten through all of the report. Still, he said Mueller was bound by the Justice Department's position that a sitting president can't be indicted. "He charged people he could charge," he said. "He couldn't charge Trump." ___ Associated Press writers Zeke Miller and Eric Tucker contributed to this report.Supported by The president’s announcement on the Golan Heights will finally free us from the “land for peace” formula that none of us believe in anyway.  By Shmuel Rosner Contributing Opinion Writer TEL AVIV — On Thursday evening here in Israel, after President Trump announced that “it is time for the United States to fully recognize Israel’s sovereignty over the Golan Heights” and our prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, thanked the president for his “historic” decision, I wanted to talk to someone I trusted on the issue, someone with perspective. So I contacted Zvi Hauser. Mr. Hauser was a cabinet secretary under Mr. Netanyahu and is running for the Knesset on behalf of the Kahol Lavan Party, which wants to unseat the prime minister in the April 9 general election. He is also a longtime proponent of America’s recognition of Israel’s sovereignty over the Golan Heights. With less than three weeks until Election Day, Mr. Hauser keeps his priorities straight. He knows that Mr. Netanyahu will get credit from the public for the United States’ recognition of Israel’s control of the Golan — something many Israelis have wanted for a long time. He understands that the president intervened to boost Mr. Netanyahu’s chances in a tight race. Still, Mr. Hauser was happy. He called the move “a turning point in the annals of the Middle East” and said he wanted to “thank President Trump and Prime Minister Netanyahu.” Mr. Hauser was not alone among Mr. Netanyahu’s rivals in praising Mr. Trump’s decision. Across the Israeli political spectrum (with some obvious exceptions), politicians are supportive of America recognizing Israel’s control of the Golan Heights. Indeed, Mr. Trump’s statement on Thursday was a major development. It is the final nail in the coffin of the 1967 line — the armistice line that separated Israel from its neighbors before the Six Days War. More than 50 years since this line was crossed by the Israeli military, we can finally kiss it goodbye. The part of the Golan Heights controlled by Israel is a 500-square-mile territory wedged between northeast Israel and southwest Syria. Syria ruled this area until 1967. Then Israel occupied it. Since then, there have been about 50 years of negotiations, with Syria demanding the territory back and Israel demanding a peace agreement. Many Israelis, though, knew that it never should — or would — be returned to Syria. The area was too important strategically and historically. In 1981, the Knesset passed a law essentially annexing the territory. And yet, negotiations continued, with successive prime ministers making overtures to the Syrians, until the Syrian civil war — and the takeover of much of Syria by Iran and its proxies — put an end to the charade. Israel had no choice but to give up on the idea of withdrawing from the Golan Heights. But this reality involves a complete overhaul of the way the international community thinks not just about the Golan Heights but also about all the lands Israel occupied in 1967. The “land for peace” formulation for the past five decades has been a basis of all peace processes between Israel and Egypt, Syria and the Palestinians. Mr. Trump seems to have accepted the position of Israel’s government and given up on the idea that Israel has to withdraw to a decades-old line to get peace. Withdrawal worked for Israel once, in 1979, when it signed a peace agreement with Egypt and left the Sinai Peninsula, which was also occupied in 1967. But that set a problematic precedent. President Anwar Sadat of Egypt insisted that Israel hand back the entire peninsula to the last inch. Israel decided that the reward was worth the price, as a major Arab country agreed to break with other Arab states and accept Israel’s legitimacy. But there was a hidden, unanticipated cost: Israel’s adversaries, in future negotiations, would demand the same kind of compensation. The 1967 line — what Israel controlled before the war — became the starting point for all Arab countries, including Syria. It became a sacred formula, worshiped by the international community. What Mr. Trump is doing extends far beyond the ability of Israel to control the Golan Heights, to settle it and invest in it. The American president is setting the clock back to before the peace deal with Egypt, to a time when Israel could argue that the reward for peace is peace — not land. Syria, of course, is unlikely to accept this. At least not in the short term. But maybe someday, a Syrian leader will come along who doesn’t entertain the thought that Israel might agree to return to the pre-1967 line and who will accept a different formula for achieving peace. In the meantime, the Golan Heights news is another clarifying moment in Israel’s election. Yes, there is a fierce fight between Mr. Netanyahu and his opponents. Yes, the stakes seem at times high. But Israelis agree on much more than many outside observers imagine. And one of the things they largely agree on is that the 1967 line is no longer relevant. Mr. Hauser started fighting for recognition of Israel’s sovereignty in the territory when he was an ally of Mr. Netanyahu. Now he is fighting for the same thing as the prime minister’s opponent. There is nothing unnatural or strange about this. On days like these, he told me, “politics is dwarfed amid the call of history.” The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Shmuel Rosner is the political editor at The Jewish Journal, a senior fellow at the Jewish People Policy Institute and a contributing opinion writer.  @rosnersdomain 

Supported by The president’s announcement on the Golan Heights will finally free us from the “land for peace” formula that none of us believe in anyway.  By Shmuel Rosner Contributing Opinion Writer TEL AVIV — On Thursday evening here in Israel, after President Trump announced that “it is time for the United States to fully recognize Israel’s sovereignty over the Golan Heights” and our prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, thanked the president for his “historic” decision, I wanted to talk to someone I trusted on the issue, someone with perspective. So I contacted Zvi Hauser. Mr. Hauser was a cabinet secretary under Mr. Netanyahu and is running for the Knesset on behalf of the Kahol Lavan Party, which wants to unseat the prime minister in the April 9 general election. He is also a longtime proponent of America’s recognition of Israel’s sovereignty over the Golan Heights. With less than three weeks until Election Day, Mr. Hauser keeps his priorities straight. He knows that Mr. Netanyahu will get credit from the public for the United States’ recognition of Israel’s control of the Golan — something many Israelis have wanted for a long time. He understands that the president intervened to boost Mr. Netanyahu’s chances in a tight race. Still, Mr. Hauser was happy. He called the move “a turning point in the annals of the Middle East” and said he wanted to “thank President Trump and Prime Minister Netanyahu.” Mr. Hauser was not alone among Mr. Netanyahu’s rivals in praising Mr. Trump’s decision. Across the Israeli political spectrum (with some obvious exceptions), politicians are supportive of America recognizing Israel’s control of the Golan Heights. Indeed, Mr. Trump’s statement on Thursday was a major development. It is the final nail in the coffin of the 1967 line — the armistice line that separated Israel from its neighbors before the Six Days War. More than 50 years since this line was crossed by the Israeli military, we can finally kiss it goodbye. The part of the Golan Heights controlled by Israel is a 500-square-mile territory wedged between northeast Israel and southwest Syria. Syria ruled this area until 1967. Then Israel occupied it. Since then, there have been about 50 years of negotiations, with Syria demanding the territory back and Israel demanding a peace agreement. Many Israelis, though, knew that it never should — or would — be returned to Syria. The area was too important strategically and historically. In 1981, the Knesset passed a law essentially annexing the territory. And yet, negotiations continued, with successive prime ministers making overtures to the Syrians, until the Syrian civil war — and the takeover of much of Syria by Iran and its proxies — put an end to the charade. Israel had no choice but to give up on the idea of withdrawing from the Golan Heights. But this reality involves a complete overhaul of the way the international community thinks not just about the Golan Heights but also about all the lands Israel occupied in 1967. The “land for peace” formulation for the past five decades has been a basis of all peace processes between Israel and Egypt, Syria and the Palestinians. Mr. Trump seems to have accepted the position of Israel’s government and given up on the idea that Israel has to withdraw to a decades-old line to get peace. Withdrawal worked for Israel once, in 1979, when it signed a peace agreement with Egypt and left the Sinai Peninsula, which was also occupied in 1967. But that set a problematic precedent. President Anwar Sadat of Egypt insisted that Israel hand back the entire peninsula to the last inch. Israel decided that the reward was worth the price, as a major Arab country agreed to break with other Arab states and accept Israel’s legitimacy. But there was a hidden, unanticipated cost: Israel’s adversaries, in future negotiations, would demand the same kind of compensation. The 1967 line — what Israel controlled before the war — became the starting point for all Arab countries, including Syria. It became a sacred formula, worshiped by the international community. What Mr. Trump is doing extends far beyond the ability of Israel to control the Golan Heights, to settle it and invest in it. The American president is setting the clock back to before the peace deal with Egypt, to a time when Israel could argue that the reward for peace is peace — not land. Syria, of course, is unlikely to accept this. At least not in the short term. But maybe someday, a Syrian leader will come along who doesn’t entertain the thought that Israel might agree to return to the pre-1967 line and who will accept a different formula for achieving peace. In the meantime, the Golan Heights news is another clarifying moment in Israel’s election. Yes, there is a fierce fight between Mr. Netanyahu and his opponents. Yes, the stakes seem at times high. But Israelis agree on much more than many outside observers imagine. And one of the things they largely agree on is that the 1967 line is no longer relevant. Mr. Hauser started fighting for recognition of Israel’s sovereignty in the territory when he was an ally of Mr. Netanyahu. Now he is fighting for the same thing as the prime minister’s opponent. There is nothing unnatural or strange about this. On days like these, he told me, “politics is dwarfed amid the call of history.” The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Shmuel Rosner is the political editor at The Jewish Journal, a senior fellow at the Jewish People Policy Institute and a contributing opinion writer.  @rosnersdomain Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump's reelection campaign is set to report that it raised more than $30 million in the first quarter of 2019, edging out his top two Democratic rivals combined, according to figures it provided to The Associated Press. The haul brings the campaign's cash on hand to $40.8 million, an unprecedented war chest for an incumbent president this early in a campaign. The Trump campaign said nearly 99% of its donations were of $200 or less, with an average donation of $34.26. Trump's fundraising ability was matched by the Republican National Committee, which brought in $45.8 million in the first quarter — its best non-election year total. Combined, the pro-Trump effort is reporting $82 million in the bank, with $40.8 million belonging to the campaign alone. Trump formally launched his reelection effort just hours after taking office in 2017, earlier than any incumbent has in prior years. By contrast, former President Barack Obama launched his 2012 effort in April 2011 and had under $2 million on hand at this point in the campaign. Obama went on to raise more than $720 million for his reelection. Trump's reelection effort has set a $1 billion target for 2020. Trump campaign manager Brad Parscale said in a statement that Trump "is in a vastly stronger position at this point than any previous incumbent president running for re-election, and only continues to build momentum." Trump's fundraising with the RNC is divided between two entities: Trump Victory, the joint account used for high-dollar gifts, and the Trump Make America Great Again Committee, the low-dollar digital fundraising operation known internally as "T-Magic." The campaign is set to launch a traditional "bundling" program — which it lacked in 2016 — in the coming weeks. Bundlers are mid-tier donors who bring in contributions from their associates. Together, the Trump entities have raised a combined $165.5 million since 2017. Trump is benefiting from the advantages of incumbency, like universal name recognition and his unrivaled position atop the Republican Party. Among Democrats, dollars are divided across a candidate field of well more than a dozen, while the Democratic National Committee remains in debt and has suffered from being dramatically outraised by the RNC in recent months. Bernie Sanders topped the Democratic field in the first quarter, raising slightly more than $18 million, followed by Kamala Harris with $12 million and Beto O'Rourke with $9.4 million. Trump is reporting a haul of $30.3 million. Republicans have trailed Democrats in online fundraising ever since the medium was invented roughly two decades ago. But Trump has closed the gap, driving small-dollar donors who make recurring donations to the GOP like the party has never seen before. According to RNC chairwoman Ronna McDaniel, Trump's campaign has already had eight seven-figure fundraising days this year, and has taken in money from more than 1 million new online donors since Trump's inauguration — including 100,000 this year. The Republican committee said it is planning on spending $30 million on maintaining and growing Trump's email list alone, recently expanded its headquarters space to an annex in Virginia and will soon invest in developing an app. In 2015, Trump swore off outside money, declaring in his opening speech: "I'm using my own money. I'm not using the lobbyists'. I'm not using donors'. I don't care. I'm really rich." He quickly reversed course on high-dollar donations after he won the GOP nomination, bowing to the financial pressures of running a general election campaign, and he'd already raised millions online through the sale of merchandise like his signature red Make America Great Again hats. Trump gave or loaned $66 million to his 2016 campaign, but has yet to spend any of his own cash for his reelection effort. Aides don't expect that to change.

Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump's reelection campaign is set to report that it raised more than $30 million in the first quarter of 2019, edging out his top two Democratic rivals combined, according to figures it provided to The Associated Press. The haul brings the campaign's cash on hand to $40.8 million, an unprecedented war chest for an incumbent president this early in a campaign. The Trump campaign said nearly 99% of its donations were of $200 or less, with an average donation of $34.26. Trump's fundraising ability was matched by the Republican National Committee, which brought in $45.8 million in the first quarter — its best non-election year total. Combined, the pro-Trump effort is reporting $82 million in the bank, with $40.8 million belonging to the campaign alone. Trump formally launched his reelection effort just hours after taking office in 2017, earlier than any incumbent has in prior years. By contrast, former President Barack Obama launched his 2012 effort in April 2011 and had under $2 million on hand at this point in the campaign. Obama went on to raise more than $720 million for his reelection. Trump's reelection effort has set a $1 billion target for 2020. Trump campaign manager Brad Parscale said in a statement that Trump "is in a vastly stronger position at this point than any previous incumbent president running for re-election, and only continues to build momentum." Trump's fundraising with the RNC is divided between two entities: Trump Victory, the joint account used for high-dollar gifts, and the Trump Make America Great Again Committee, the low-dollar digital fundraising operation known internally as "T-Magic." The campaign is set to launch a traditional "bundling" program — which it lacked in 2016 — in the coming weeks. Bundlers are mid-tier donors who bring in contributions from their associates. Together, the Trump entities have raised a combined $165.5 million since 2017. Trump is benefiting from the advantages of incumbency, like universal name recognition and his unrivaled position atop the Republican Party. Among Democrats, dollars are divided across a candidate field of well more than a dozen, while the Democratic National Committee remains in debt and has suffered from being dramatically outraised by the RNC in recent months. Bernie Sanders topped the Democratic field in the first quarter, raising slightly more than $18 million, followed by Kamala Harris with $12 million and Beto O'Rourke with $9.4 million. Trump is reporting a haul of $30.3 million. Republicans have trailed Democrats in online fundraising ever since the medium was invented roughly two decades ago. But Trump has closed the gap, driving small-dollar donors who make recurring donations to the GOP like the party has never seen before. According to RNC chairwoman Ronna McDaniel, Trump's campaign has already had eight seven-figure fundraising days this year, and has taken in money from more than 1 million new online donors since Trump's inauguration — including 100,000 this year. The Republican committee said it is planning on spending $30 million on maintaining and growing Trump's email list alone, recently expanded its headquarters space to an annex in Virginia and will soon invest in developing an app. In 2015, Trump swore off outside money, declaring in his opening speech: "I'm using my own money. I'm not using the lobbyists'. I'm not using donors'. I don't care. I'm really rich." He quickly reversed course on high-dollar donations after he won the GOP nomination, bowing to the financial pressures of running a general election campaign, and he'd already raised millions online through the sale of merchandise like his signature red Make America Great Again hats. Trump gave or loaned $66 million to his 2016 campaign, but has yet to spend any of his own cash for his reelection effort. Aides don't expect that to change.Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — Special Counsel Robert Mueller may not have found evidence of a criminal conspiracy between Donald Trump's 2016 campaign and Russia, but his report details extensive contacts between the campaign and Russian operatives who sought to influence the election.    Mueller said in his report released on Thursday that he found "numerous links" and that the Trump campaign "expected it would benefit" from Russia's effort to tilt the ballot in Trump's favor. Ultimately, Mueller determined the various contacts either didn't amount to criminal behavior or would be difficult to prove in court, even if people in Trump's orbit sometimes displayed a willingness to accept Russian help, the report showed.  Trump and his allies, who derided the Mueller probe as a political "witch hunt", portrayed the report as vindication. "No collusion. No obstruction. For all the haters and the radical left Democrats, game over," Trump tweeted on Thursday.  "The bottom line is the president is exonerated and the campaign is exonerated of collusion," said Michael Caputo, a former adviser to Trump's campaign. Some legal experts and political strategists were more circumspect, saying the report confirmed the Russian government was attempting to help Trump with the election.  "I think that's a pretty extraordinary finding of historical significance, whether or not there's a crime," said Matthew Jacobs, a former federal prosecutor who is now a San Francisco-based lawyer. Many of the contacts in the report were already known. They included former national security adviser Michael Flynn's conversations in late 2016 with Sergei Kislyak, Russia ambassador at the time, and former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort's interactions with Konstantin Kilimnik, a political consultant who the FBI has determined has ties to Russian intelligence. But the report contained fresh details on the range of official and unofficial dealings Trump campaign advisers and supporters had with Russians before and after the 2016 election.  For example, the report says that Manafort, shortly after he joined the campaign in the spring of 2016, directed his deputy to share internal polling data with Kilimnik with the understanding it would be passed on to Oleg Deripaska, a Russian oligarch known to have close ties to the Kremlin. Lawyers for Manafort did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Kilimnik did not reply to an email seeking comment. A Washington-based attorney for Deripsaka said he could not comment. In a statement to Reuters in January, representatives for Deripaska said he has never had any communication with Kilimnik. The report also says that Manafort told Kilimnik in August 2017 about the campaign's efforts to win the battleground states of Michigan, Pennsylvania, Wisconsin and Minnesota. Trump ended up winning three of those states in the November election. Mueller's investigation did not find a connection between Manafort's sharing of polling data and Russia's meddling in the U.S. election or that he otherwise coordinated with Russia. Frank Montoya, a former senior FBI official, said he was nonetheless bothered by the interactions between Manafort and Kilimnik, especially their talking about battleground states.  "As a longtime counterintelligence investigator it makes the hair stand on the back of my neck," Montoya said. The report detailed a meeting in December 2016 between Trump's son-in-law Jared Kushner and Sergei Gorkov, the head of a Russian state-owned bank under U.S. sanctions. Gorkov gave Kushner a painting and a bag of soil from the town in Belarus where Kushner's family is from, the report says. Mueller's team said it could not resolve a conflict in the accounts of Kushner, who said the meeting was diplomatic in nature, and Gorkov, who said it was business related. Kushner has said neither sanctions nor his business activities were discussed at the meeting. Kushner's lawyer did not respond to a request for comment on Mueller's report. The report also provided new details about a meeting that campaign advisers Donald Trump Jr., the president's oldest son, Kushner and Manafort held with a Russian lawyer at New York's Trump Tower in June 2016. The meeting was set up after the advisers were promised "dirt" on Hillary Clinton, Trump's Democratic challenger for president. Mueller's team considered whether the advisers violated laws barring election contributions from foreigners. But, the report says, they ultimately decided there was not enough evidence to show they "wilfully" broke the law and they might have had problems proving the information offered on Clinton was really valuable. When news of the Trump Tower meeting broke in July 2017, Trump Jr. issued a statement saying the meeting was set up to discuss adoption policy, not politics, before later admitting he had been expecting intelligence on Clinton.  Such interactions have broadly been referred to by Democratic congressional investigators as examples of possible "collusion". But because collusion is not a legal term, Mueller's team examined the Trump Tower meeting and other contacts through the lens of federal conspiracy law. Mueller said his investigation was unable to establish that such contacts with Russians met the bar of criminality which required that the contacts "amounted to an agreement to commit any substantive violation" of U.S. laws, including those governing campaign finance and foreign agent registration. Therefore, Mueller said his office "did not charge any individual associated with the Trump Campaign with conspiracy to commit a federal offense arising from Russia contacts."  (Reporting by Mark Hosenball, Nathan Layne, Sarah N. Lynch, Karen Freifeld and Andy Sullivan in Washington; Editing by Ross Colvin and Paul Thomasch)

Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — Special Counsel Robert Mueller may not have found evidence of a criminal conspiracy between Donald Trump's 2016 campaign and Russia, but his report details extensive contacts between the campaign and Russian operatives who sought to influence the election.    Mueller said in his report released on Thursday that he found "numerous links" and that the Trump campaign "expected it would benefit" from Russia's effort to tilt the ballot in Trump's favor. Ultimately, Mueller determined the various contacts either didn't amount to criminal behavior or would be difficult to prove in court, even if people in Trump's orbit sometimes displayed a willingness to accept Russian help, the report showed.  Trump and his allies, who derided the Mueller probe as a political "witch hunt", portrayed the report as vindication. "No collusion. No obstruction. For all the haters and the radical left Democrats, game over," Trump tweeted on Thursday.  "The bottom line is the president is exonerated and the campaign is exonerated of collusion," said Michael Caputo, a former adviser to Trump's campaign. Some legal experts and political strategists were more circumspect, saying the report confirmed the Russian government was attempting to help Trump with the election.  "I think that's a pretty extraordinary finding of historical significance, whether or not there's a crime," said Matthew Jacobs, a former federal prosecutor who is now a San Francisco-based lawyer. Many of the contacts in the report were already known. They included former national security adviser Michael Flynn's conversations in late 2016 with Sergei Kislyak, Russia ambassador at the time, and former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort's interactions with Konstantin Kilimnik, a political consultant who the FBI has determined has ties to Russian intelligence. But the report contained fresh details on the range of official and unofficial dealings Trump campaign advisers and supporters had with Russians before and after the 2016 election.  For example, the report says that Manafort, shortly after he joined the campaign in the spring of 2016, directed his deputy to share internal polling data with Kilimnik with the understanding it would be passed on to Oleg Deripaska, a Russian oligarch known to have close ties to the Kremlin. Lawyers for Manafort did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Kilimnik did not reply to an email seeking comment. A Washington-based attorney for Deripsaka said he could not comment. In a statement to Reuters in January, representatives for Deripaska said he has never had any communication with Kilimnik. The report also says that Manafort told Kilimnik in August 2017 about the campaign's efforts to win the battleground states of Michigan, Pennsylvania, Wisconsin and Minnesota. Trump ended up winning three of those states in the November election. Mueller's investigation did not find a connection between Manafort's sharing of polling data and Russia's meddling in the U.S. election or that he otherwise coordinated with Russia. Frank Montoya, a former senior FBI official, said he was nonetheless bothered by the interactions between Manafort and Kilimnik, especially their talking about battleground states.  "As a longtime counterintelligence investigator it makes the hair stand on the back of my neck," Montoya said. The report detailed a meeting in December 2016 between Trump's son-in-law Jared Kushner and Sergei Gorkov, the head of a Russian state-owned bank under U.S. sanctions. Gorkov gave Kushner a painting and a bag of soil from the town in Belarus where Kushner's family is from, the report says. Mueller's team said it could not resolve a conflict in the accounts of Kushner, who said the meeting was diplomatic in nature, and Gorkov, who said it was business related. Kushner has said neither sanctions nor his business activities were discussed at the meeting. Kushner's lawyer did not respond to a request for comment on Mueller's report. The report also provided new details about a meeting that campaign advisers Donald Trump Jr., the president's oldest son, Kushner and Manafort held with a Russian lawyer at New York's Trump Tower in June 2016. The meeting was set up after the advisers were promised "dirt" on Hillary Clinton, Trump's Democratic challenger for president. Mueller's team considered whether the advisers violated laws barring election contributions from foreigners. But, the report says, they ultimately decided there was not enough evidence to show they "wilfully" broke the law and they might have had problems proving the information offered on Clinton was really valuable. When news of the Trump Tower meeting broke in July 2017, Trump Jr. issued a statement saying the meeting was set up to discuss adoption policy, not politics, before later admitting he had been expecting intelligence on Clinton.  Such interactions have broadly been referred to by Democratic congressional investigators as examples of possible "collusion". But because collusion is not a legal term, Mueller's team examined the Trump Tower meeting and other contacts through the lens of federal conspiracy law. Mueller said his investigation was unable to establish that such contacts with Russians met the bar of criminality which required that the contacts "amounted to an agreement to commit any substantive violation" of U.S. laws, including those governing campaign finance and foreign agent registration. Therefore, Mueller said his office "did not charge any individual associated with the Trump Campaign with conspiracy to commit a federal offense arising from Russia contacts."  (Reporting by Mark Hosenball, Nathan Layne, Sarah N. Lynch, Karen Freifeld and Andy Sullivan in Washington; Editing by Ross Colvin and Paul Thomasch)Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — Special Counsel Robert Mueller may not have found evidence of a criminal conspiracy between Donald Trump's 2016 campaign and Russia, but his report details extensive contacts between the campaign and Russian operatives who sought to influence the election.    Mueller said in his report released on Thursday that he found "numerous links" and that the Trump campaign "expected it would benefit" from Russia's effort to tilt the ballot in Trump's favor. Ultimately, Mueller determined the various contacts either didn't amount to criminal behavior or would be difficult to prove in court, even if people in Trump's orbit sometimes displayed a willingness to accept Russian help, the report showed.  Trump and his allies, who derided the Mueller probe as a political "witch hunt", portrayed the report as vindication. "No collusion. No obstruction. For all the haters and the radical left Democrats, game over," Trump tweeted on Thursday.  "The bottom line is the president is exonerated and the campaign is exonerated of collusion," said Michael Caputo, a former adviser to Trump's campaign. Some legal experts and political strategists were more circumspect, saying the report confirmed the Russian government was attempting to help Trump with the election.  "I think that's a pretty extraordinary finding of historical significance, whether or not there's a crime," said Matthew Jacobs, a former federal prosecutor who is now a San Francisco-based lawyer. Many of the contacts in the report were already known. They included former national security adviser Michael Flynn's conversations in late 2016 with Sergei Kislyak, Russia ambassador at the time, and former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort's interactions with Konstantin Kilimnik, a political consultant who the FBI has determined has ties to Russian intelligence. But the report contained fresh details on the range of official and unofficial dealings Trump campaign advisers and supporters had with Russians before and after the 2016 election.  For example, the report says that Manafort, shortly after he joined the campaign in the spring of 2016, directed his deputy to share internal polling data with Kilimnik with the understanding it would be passed on to Oleg Deripaska, a Russian oligarch known to have close ties to the Kremlin. Lawyers for Manafort did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Kilimnik did not reply to an email seeking comment. A Washington-based attorney for Deripsaka said he could not comment. In a statement to Reuters in January, representatives for Deripaska said he has never had any communication with Kilimnik. The report also says that Manafort told Kilimnik in August 2017 about the campaign's efforts to win the battleground states of Michigan, Pennsylvania, Wisconsin and Minnesota. Trump ended up winning three of those states in the November election. Mueller's investigation did not find a connection between Manafort's sharing of polling data and Russia's meddling in the U.S. election or that he otherwise coordinated with Russia. Frank Montoya, a former senior FBI official, said he was nonetheless bothered by the interactions between Manafort and Kilimnik, especially their talking about battleground states.  "As a longtime counterintelligence investigator it makes the hair stand on the back of my neck," Montoya said. The report detailed a meeting in December 2016 between Trump's son-in-law Jared Kushner and Sergei Gorkov, the head of a Russian state-owned bank under U.S. sanctions. Gorkov gave Kushner a painting and a bag of soil from the town in Belarus where Kushner's family is from, the report says. Mueller's team said it could not resolve a conflict in the accounts of Kushner, who said the meeting was diplomatic in nature, and Gorkov, who said it was business related. Kushner has said neither sanctions nor his business activities were discussed at the meeting. Kushner's lawyer did not respond to a request for comment on Mueller's report. The report also provided new details about a meeting that campaign advisers Donald Trump Jr., the president's oldest son, Kushner and Manafort held with a Russian lawyer at New York's Trump Tower in June 2016. The meeting was set up after the advisers were promised "dirt" on Hillary Clinton, Trump's Democratic challenger for president. Mueller's team considered whether the advisers violated laws barring election contributions from foreigners. But, the report says, they ultimately decided there was not enough evidence to show they "wilfully" broke the law and they might have had problems proving the information offered on Clinton was really valuable. When news of the Trump Tower meeting broke in July 2017, Trump Jr. issued a statement saying the meeting was set up to discuss adoption policy, not politics, before later admitting he had been expecting intelligence on Clinton.  Such interactions have broadly been referred to by Democratic congressional investigators as examples of possible "collusion". But because collusion is not a legal term, Mueller's team examined the Trump Tower meeting and other contacts through the lens of federal conspiracy law. Mueller said his investigation was unable to establish that such contacts with Russians met the bar of criminality which required that the contacts "amounted to an agreement to commit any substantive violation" of U.S. laws, including those governing campaign finance and foreign agent registration. Therefore, Mueller said his office "did not charge any individual associated with the Trump Campaign with conspiracy to commit a federal offense arising from Russia contacts."  (Reporting by Mark Hosenball, Nathan Layne, Sarah N. Lynch, Karen Freifeld and Andy Sullivan in Washington; Editing by Ross Colvin and Paul Thomasch)

Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — Special Counsel Robert Mueller may not have found evidence of a criminal conspiracy between Donald Trump's 2016 campaign and Russia, but his report details extensive contacts between the campaign and Russian operatives who sought to influence the election.    Mueller said in his report released on Thursday that he found "numerous links" and that the Trump campaign "expected it would benefit" from Russia's effort to tilt the ballot in Trump's favor. Ultimately, Mueller determined the various contacts either didn't amount to criminal behavior or would be difficult to prove in court, even if people in Trump's orbit sometimes displayed a willingness to accept Russian help, the report showed.  Trump and his allies, who derided the Mueller probe as a political "witch hunt", portrayed the report as vindication. "No collusion. No obstruction. For all the haters and the radical left Democrats, game over," Trump tweeted on Thursday.  "The bottom line is the president is exonerated and the campaign is exonerated of collusion," said Michael Caputo, a former adviser to Trump's campaign. Some legal experts and political strategists were more circumspect, saying the report confirmed the Russian government was attempting to help Trump with the election.  "I think that's a pretty extraordinary finding of historical significance, whether or not there's a crime," said Matthew Jacobs, a former federal prosecutor who is now a San Francisco-based lawyer. Many of the contacts in the report were already known. They included former national security adviser Michael Flynn's conversations in late 2016 with Sergei Kislyak, Russia ambassador at the time, and former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort's interactions with Konstantin Kilimnik, a political consultant who the FBI has determined has ties to Russian intelligence. But the report contained fresh details on the range of official and unofficial dealings Trump campaign advisers and supporters had with Russians before and after the 2016 election.  For example, the report says that Manafort, shortly after he joined the campaign in the spring of 2016, directed his deputy to share internal polling data with Kilimnik with the understanding it would be passed on to Oleg Deripaska, a Russian oligarch known to have close ties to the Kremlin. Lawyers for Manafort did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Kilimnik did not reply to an email seeking comment. A Washington-based attorney for Deripsaka said he could not comment. In a statement to Reuters in January, representatives for Deripaska said he has never had any communication with Kilimnik. The report also says that Manafort told Kilimnik in August 2017 about the campaign's efforts to win the battleground states of Michigan, Pennsylvania, Wisconsin and Minnesota. Trump ended up winning three of those states in the November election. Mueller's investigation did not find a connection between Manafort's sharing of polling data and Russia's meddling in the U.S. election or that he otherwise coordinated with Russia. Frank Montoya, a former senior FBI official, said he was nonetheless bothered by the interactions between Manafort and Kilimnik, especially their talking about battleground states.  "As a longtime counterintelligence investigator it makes the hair stand on the back of my neck," Montoya said. The report detailed a meeting in December 2016 between Trump's son-in-law Jared Kushner and Sergei Gorkov, the head of a Russian state-owned bank under U.S. sanctions. Gorkov gave Kushner a painting and a bag of soil from the town in Belarus where Kushner's family is from, the report says. Mueller's team said it could not resolve a conflict in the accounts of Kushner, who said the meeting was diplomatic in nature, and Gorkov, who said it was business related. Kushner has said neither sanctions nor his business activities were discussed at the meeting. Kushner's lawyer did not respond to a request for comment on Mueller's report. The report also provided new details about a meeting that campaign advisers Donald Trump Jr., the president's oldest son, Kushner and Manafort held with a Russian lawyer at New York's Trump Tower in June 2016. The meeting was set up after the advisers were promised "dirt" on Hillary Clinton, Trump's Democratic challenger for president. Mueller's team considered whether the advisers violated laws barring election contributions from foreigners. But, the report says, they ultimately decided there was not enough evidence to show they "wilfully" broke the law and they might have had problems proving the information offered on Clinton was really valuable. When news of the Trump Tower meeting broke in July 2017, Trump Jr. issued a statement saying the meeting was set up to discuss adoption policy, not politics, before later admitting he had been expecting intelligence on Clinton.  Such interactions have broadly been referred to by Democratic congressional investigators as examples of possible "collusion". But because collusion is not a legal term, Mueller's team examined the Trump Tower meeting and other contacts through the lens of federal conspiracy law. Mueller said his investigation was unable to establish that such contacts with Russians met the bar of criminality which required that the contacts "amounted to an agreement to commit any substantive violation" of U.S. laws, including those governing campaign finance and foreign agent registration. Therefore, Mueller said his office "did not charge any individual associated with the Trump Campaign with conspiracy to commit a federal offense arising from Russia contacts."  (Reporting by Mark Hosenball, Nathan Layne, Sarah N. Lynch, Karen Freifeld and Andy Sullivan in Washington; Editing by Ross Colvin and Paul Thomasch)Supported by People say that the 1998 impeachment of Bill Clinton hurt Republicans. Did it really? By Philippe Reines Mr. Reines is a former senior adviser to Hillary Clinton. The impeachment of Bill Clinton backfired on Republicans. It’s a sentiment repeated daily without question on cable news, in Congress and probably inside the White House. But exactly how did impeachment backfire? With two decades of hindsight, it’s not clear the Republicans faced any lasting consequences — a perspective that should inform any Democrat considering whether to undertake the same effort against President Trump. The case for why impeachment hurt the Republicans is straightforward. Most obviously, it didn’t work: President Clinton was not convicted and removed from office. In fact, in early 1999, at the height of the impeachment process, he was more popular than at any other time of his presidency.  Furthermore, in the fall of 1998, at the first opportunity for voters to express their feelings at the ballot box after the House voted to begin an impeachment inquiry, the Democrats picked up five seats in the House of Representatives, an embarrassment that drove Newt Gingrich from the speaker’s office.  But consider what followed.  First, the Republicans went on to take or hold the White House in three of the next five presidential elections — including the 2016 race between Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton.  And while Democrats did gain a handful of House seats in midterm elections in 1998, the Republicans maintained control for eight more years, until disapproval of the Iraq war finally tipped Congress to the Democrats in 2006.  On the Senate side in 1998, the Republicans maintained their 55-45 majority. With the exception of a 17-month window in 2002 and 2003, Republicans controlled the Senate until 2006. In short, the Republican wave of 1994 endured for nearly a decade after the failed impeachment. It’s true that Mr. Clinton was not removed from office, but Republicans used the fact of his impeachment as a cudgel first against his vice president, Al Gore, and later against his wife. While its impact can’t be quantified, it sure didn’t help either in their election bids. Finally, and most important, the very myth that the 1998 impeachment hurt Republicans protects them today, when pressure to move against Mr. Trump is met with concerns about the political fallout. Clearly, we need to reconsider that myth. Basically, a high crime committed by a Republican won’t be prosecuted because a Democrat was persecuted over a misdemeanor. There are many reasons for Democrats to contemplate impeachment today that go beyond politics. Substantial evidence has already emerged showing that the president has abused his office to the detriment of the American public. That evidence deserves a thorough and transparent airing in Congress, arguably the only venue available for trying a sitting president. Still, as pundits never tire of saying, impeachment is a political process, not a legal one — and the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, and Senator Chuck Schumer are right to wonder whether it makes sense to seek impeachment, especially given the unlikelihood of enough Republicans breaking ranks in the Senate. On Monday, Ms. Pelosi said that, for now, Mr. Trump was “not worth” the cost of impeachment to the country. But impeachment is worth it, politically, and not just because of what history shows us. If anything, Democrats are in an even better position than Republicans were in 1998 to benefit, or at worst not suffer, politically. For one thing, 22 Republican senators are up for re-election in 2020, against just 12 Democrats. Especially if the public support for impeachment continues to grow, a Republican vote to acquit the president could tip at least a few vulnerable Republican seats. Also, one reason people think the Republicans suffered for 1998 is that everyone knew, then and later, that it was a crassly political move — Mr. Clinton’s lapses, however you judge them, were personal, not the sort of “high crimes and misdemeanors” that impeachment is intended to address.  Most voters today, whether they support Mr. Trump or not, will probably see a potential impeachment against him differently. Especially as the evidence mounts, reasonable people will more and more conclude that the Democrats are doing their civic duty by pursuing impeachment (and those who disagree probably wouldn’t vote Democratic anyway). There is also a mounting political cost to not impeaching Mr. Trump. He will hail it as exoneration and he will go into the 2020 campaign under the banner “I Told You So,” declaring that for all their talk of removing him from office, Democrats had merely been playing politics for three years. All this assumes that impeachment won’t happen. But the political case is so strong, and the evidence against Mr. Trump so persuasive, that however unlikely, it is not impossible that 20 Republican senators join the Democrats.  But perhaps the most persuasive political case for impeachment is the long view. Set aside what it would mean for the 2020 elections. Mr. Trump is a pernicious, divisive figure who is poisoning our politics, and hopes to do so for years to come. Should he lose in 2020, he has already laid the groundwork for an all-out assault against the media, the political establishment and the Democratic Party itself. Politically, we — the country, not just the Democratic Party — cannot accept that risk. Impeachment might be the only remedy we have. Philippe Reines was a senior adviser and spokesman for Hillary Clinton from 2002 to 2017. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported by People say that the 1998 impeachment of Bill Clinton hurt Republicans. Did it really? By Philippe Reines Mr. Reines is a former senior adviser to Hillary Clinton. The impeachment of Bill Clinton backfired on Republicans. It’s a sentiment repeated daily without question on cable news, in Congress and probably inside the White House. But exactly how did impeachment backfire? With two decades of hindsight, it’s not clear the Republicans faced any lasting consequences — a perspective that should inform any Democrat considering whether to undertake the same effort against President Trump. The case for why impeachment hurt the Republicans is straightforward. Most obviously, it didn’t work: President Clinton was not convicted and removed from office. In fact, in early 1999, at the height of the impeachment process, he was more popular than at any other time of his presidency.  Furthermore, in the fall of 1998, at the first opportunity for voters to express their feelings at the ballot box after the House voted to begin an impeachment inquiry, the Democrats picked up five seats in the House of Representatives, an embarrassment that drove Newt Gingrich from the speaker’s office.  But consider what followed.  First, the Republicans went on to take or hold the White House in three of the next five presidential elections — including the 2016 race between Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton.  And while Democrats did gain a handful of House seats in midterm elections in 1998, the Republicans maintained control for eight more years, until disapproval of the Iraq war finally tipped Congress to the Democrats in 2006.  On the Senate side in 1998, the Republicans maintained their 55-45 majority. With the exception of a 17-month window in 2002 and 2003, Republicans controlled the Senate until 2006. In short, the Republican wave of 1994 endured for nearly a decade after the failed impeachment. It’s true that Mr. Clinton was not removed from office, but Republicans used the fact of his impeachment as a cudgel first against his vice president, Al Gore, and later against his wife. While its impact can’t be quantified, it sure didn’t help either in their election bids. Finally, and most important, the very myth that the 1998 impeachment hurt Republicans protects them today, when pressure to move against Mr. Trump is met with concerns about the political fallout. Clearly, we need to reconsider that myth. Basically, a high crime committed by a Republican won’t be prosecuted because a Democrat was persecuted over a misdemeanor. There are many reasons for Democrats to contemplate impeachment today that go beyond politics. Substantial evidence has already emerged showing that the president has abused his office to the detriment of the American public. That evidence deserves a thorough and transparent airing in Congress, arguably the only venue available for trying a sitting president. Still, as pundits never tire of saying, impeachment is a political process, not a legal one — and the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, and Senator Chuck Schumer are right to wonder whether it makes sense to seek impeachment, especially given the unlikelihood of enough Republicans breaking ranks in the Senate. On Monday, Ms. Pelosi said that, for now, Mr. Trump was “not worth” the cost of impeachment to the country. But impeachment is worth it, politically, and not just because of what history shows us. If anything, Democrats are in an even better position than Republicans were in 1998 to benefit, or at worst not suffer, politically. For one thing, 22 Republican senators are up for re-election in 2020, against just 12 Democrats. Especially if the public support for impeachment continues to grow, a Republican vote to acquit the president could tip at least a few vulnerable Republican seats. Also, one reason people think the Republicans suffered for 1998 is that everyone knew, then and later, that it was a crassly political move — Mr. Clinton’s lapses, however you judge them, were personal, not the sort of “high crimes and misdemeanors” that impeachment is intended to address.  Most voters today, whether they support Mr. Trump or not, will probably see a potential impeachment against him differently. Especially as the evidence mounts, reasonable people will more and more conclude that the Democrats are doing their civic duty by pursuing impeachment (and those who disagree probably wouldn’t vote Democratic anyway). There is also a mounting political cost to not impeaching Mr. Trump. He will hail it as exoneration and he will go into the 2020 campaign under the banner “I Told You So,” declaring that for all their talk of removing him from office, Democrats had merely been playing politics for three years. All this assumes that impeachment won’t happen. But the political case is so strong, and the evidence against Mr. Trump so persuasive, that however unlikely, it is not impossible that 20 Republican senators join the Democrats.  But perhaps the most persuasive political case for impeachment is the long view. Set aside what it would mean for the 2020 elections. Mr. Trump is a pernicious, divisive figure who is poisoning our politics, and hopes to do so for years to come. Should he lose in 2020, he has already laid the groundwork for an all-out assault against the media, the political establishment and the Democratic Party itself. Politically, we — the country, not just the Democratic Party — cannot accept that risk. Impeachment might be the only remedy we have. Philippe Reines was a senior adviser and spokesman for Hillary Clinton from 2002 to 2017. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — The Latest on President Donald Trump and Rep. Ilhan Omar of Minnesota (all times local): 10 a.m. President Donald Trump is escalating his feud with Rep. Ilhan Omar, accusing her on Twitter of making "anti-Semitic, anti-Israel and ungrateful U.S. HATE statements." The comments come a day after the Minnesota Democrat said she's faced increased death threats since Trump spread a video that purports to show her being dismissive of the 9/11 terrorist attacks. She's accused Trump of fomenting right-wing extremism and urged him to stop. Trump is also going after House Speaker Nancy Pelosi. He's accusing her of having "lost all control of Congress" and "getting nothing done," and says, before she decides to "defend her leader, Rep. Omar," she should look at her past comments. He asserts, without evidence, that Omar is "out of control, except for her control of Nancy!" __ 12:22 a.m. Rep. Ilhan Omar says she's faced increased death threats since President Donald Trump spread around a video that purports to show her being dismissive of the 2001 terrorist attacks. "This is endangering lives," she said, accusing Trump of fomenting right-wing extremism. "It has to stop." Her statement late Sunday followed an announcement by House Speaker Nancy Pelosi that she has taken steps to ensure the safety of the Minnesota Democrat and the speaker's call for Trump to take down the video. Soon after Pelosi's statement, the video disappeared as a pinned tweet at the top of Trump's Twitter feed, but it was not deleted. White House press secretary Sarah Sanders defended Trump earlier Sunday, saying he wished no "ill will" upon the first-term lawmaker.

Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — The Latest on President Donald Trump and Rep. Ilhan Omar of Minnesota (all times local): 10 a.m. President Donald Trump is escalating his feud with Rep. Ilhan Omar, accusing her on Twitter of making "anti-Semitic, anti-Israel and ungrateful U.S. HATE statements." The comments come a day after the Minnesota Democrat said she's faced increased death threats since Trump spread a video that purports to show her being dismissive of the 9/11 terrorist attacks. She's accused Trump of fomenting right-wing extremism and urged him to stop. Trump is also going after House Speaker Nancy Pelosi. He's accusing her of having "lost all control of Congress" and "getting nothing done," and says, before she decides to "defend her leader, Rep. Omar," she should look at her past comments. He asserts, without evidence, that Omar is "out of control, except for her control of Nancy!" __ 12:22 a.m. Rep. Ilhan Omar says she's faced increased death threats since President Donald Trump spread around a video that purports to show her being dismissive of the 2001 terrorist attacks. "This is endangering lives," she said, accusing Trump of fomenting right-wing extremism. "It has to stop." Her statement late Sunday followed an announcement by House Speaker Nancy Pelosi that she has taken steps to ensure the safety of the Minnesota Democrat and the speaker's call for Trump to take down the video. Soon after Pelosi's statement, the video disappeared as a pinned tweet at the top of Trump's Twitter feed, but it was not deleted. White House press secretary Sarah Sanders defended Trump earlier Sunday, saying he wished no "ill will" upon the first-term lawmaker.Supported by By Maggie Haberman, Annie Karni and Eric Schmitt President Trump last week privately urged Kevin McAleenan, the border enforcement official he was about to name as acting secretary of homeland security, to close the southwestern border to migrants despite having just said publicly that he was delaying a decision on the step for a year, according to three people briefed about the conversation. It was not clear what Mr. Trump meant by his request or his additional comment to Mr. McAleenan that he would pardon him if he encountered any legal problems as a result of taking the action. Federal judges have already blocked the administration’s attempts to limit asylum seekers who illegally enter the country, and it is not likely that Mr. McAleenan would have ended up in jail if he had followed the president’s directive. One of the people briefed on the conversation said it was possible Mr. Trump had intended the comments to Mr. McAleenan as a joke. But the conversation, which took place during the president’s visit to the border town of Calexico, Calif., alarmed officials at the Department of Homeland Security who were told of it, according to the people familiar with the remarks. It was another instance of the president trying to undo a decision and to stretch the boundaries of his power, even when told there were legal issues at stake. The same situation played out on Friday, when Mr. Trump said he was considering releasing asylum seekers into so-called sanctuary cities after administration officials told reporters the proposal was rejected because of legal issues. The day before his conversation with Mr. McAleenan, Mr. Trump had retreated from his threat to close the border in a matter of days. Instead, he told reporters, he was issuing a “one-year warning” to Mexico to halt illegal immigration and drug trafficking. Privately, however, he was still pushing his aides to halt the flow of asylum seekers across the Mexican border. Besides Mr. McAleenan, who was then the commissioner of Customs and Border Protection, Mr. Trump was accompanied on the trip by Kirstjen Nielsen, the secretary of homeland security at the time. Ms. Nielsen had earlier refused to carry through with Mr. Trump’s desire to close the border, telling him it was illegal. But the president encouraged Mr. McAleenan to disregard Ms. Nielsen and enforce the move himself. Two days later, Ms. Nielsen submitted her resignation under pressure from Mr. Trump, and the president appointed Mr. McAleenan to her job on an acting basis. A White House spokesman declined to respond to requests for comment on the conversation between the president and Mr. McAleenan. Tyler Q. Houlton, a spokesman for the Department of Homeland Security, did not specifically address it. “At no time has the president indicated, asked, directed or pressured the acting secretary to do anything illegal,” Mr. Houlton said. “Nor would the acting secretary take actions that are not in accordance with our responsibility to enforce the law.” Mr. Trump’s desire to close the border, despite the legal impediments, was a factor in the forced resignation of Ms. Nielsen. It was one of a number of instances in which Ms. Nielsen believed she was being asked to engage in conduct that violated laws, according to several people with knowledge of those discussions. The president’s conversation with Mr. McAleenan came at a time when Mr. Trump was considering him as a successor to Ms. Nielsen, whom he was planning to remove from her job, according to officials familiar with his timing. It also came as the factions in the West Wing seeking to oversee immigration policy had been fighting for dominance, creating confusion for the department about whom to deal with or respond to. The discussion with Mr. McAleenan was one of the most acute examples of Mr. Trump’s desire to use any means to stem the tide of immigrants into the United States, and a reminder of what he would like to see as the unilateral powers of the presidency. Mr. Trump has been growing increasingly agitated about images of the border he has seen on television, and distressed by the number of immigrants entering the country from the border with Mexico. More undocumented immigrants were apprehended along the southern border in March than in any month since 2007, Customs and Border Protection reported this week. In response, the president has ramped up his messaging against not just illegal immigration but also legal immigration, mocking asylum seekers as fakes who are pretending to face difficult conditions to ease their passage across the border. While Mr. Trump has not publicly revisited closing the border, he has repeatedly excoriated Democrats over immigration policy and suggested that he will take more aggressive steps at the border. “I’m going to have to call up more military,” Mr. Trump told reporters during a visit to San Antonio this week. “Our military, don’t forget, can’t act like they would normally act because if they got a little rough, everybody would go crazy.” Mr. Trump’s insistence that he was still considering placing undocumented immigrants in sanctuary cities “due to the fact that Democrats are unwilling to change our very dangerous immigration laws” came in a tweet on Friday morning. That statement directly contradicted his own aides, who on Thursday had described the proposal as a “suggestion that was floated and rejected, which ended any further discussion.” But Mr. Trump was eager to continue the discussion. If Democrats did not agree to new immigration policies, Mr. Trump told reporters at the White House on Friday, “we might as well do what they always say they want.” “We’ll bring them to sanctuary city areas and let that particular area take care of it,” Mr. Trump continued, adding that California welcomed the idea of more people coming to the state. “We can give them a lot. We can give them an unlimited supply,” he said. After Mr. Trump’s comments, a White House spokesman indicated that the proposal was now back on the table, and that Democrats should work with the administration to welcome migrants into their districts. “Democrats say we must have open borders and that illegal immigrants have a right to be in this country at all costs,” the spokesman, Hogan Gidley said, “so they should be working with the administration to find the best ways to transport those illegal aliens that are already set for release, into communities in their districts and states.” Democratic lawmakers, however, are not advocating “open borders,” as the president has suggested. They favor enhancing border security, but do not support many of Mr. Trump’s hard-line immigration policy proposals, such as building a wall along the southern border. Last year, Trump administration officials had floated the idea of transporting migrants to sanctuary cities, which limit how local law enforcement can cooperate with federal immigration officers, as a way to address the influx of migrants crossing the border. One of the highest-profile sanctuary cities is San Francisco, home to Speaker Nancy Pelosi, one of the most effective opponents of the president’s efforts to change American immigration laws. The White House raised the proposal again in February, seeing it as a way to punish Democrats for their opposition. Ms. Pelosi’s office condemned the plan. “The extent of this administration’s cynicism and cruelty cannot be overstated,” said Ashley Etienne, a spokeswoman for Ms. Pelosi. “Using human beings — including little children — as pawns in their warped game to perpetuate fear and demonize immigrants is despicable, and in some cases, criminal.” Zolan Kanno-Youngs, Michael D. Shear and Eileen Sullivan contributed reporting.  

Supported by By Maggie Haberman, Annie Karni and Eric Schmitt President Trump last week privately urged Kevin McAleenan, the border enforcement official he was about to name as acting secretary of homeland security, to close the southwestern border to migrants despite having just said publicly that he was delaying a decision on the step for a year, according to three people briefed about the conversation. It was not clear what Mr. Trump meant by his request or his additional comment to Mr. McAleenan that he would pardon him if he encountered any legal problems as a result of taking the action. Federal judges have already blocked the administration’s attempts to limit asylum seekers who illegally enter the country, and it is not likely that Mr. McAleenan would have ended up in jail if he had followed the president’s directive. One of the people briefed on the conversation said it was possible Mr. Trump had intended the comments to Mr. McAleenan as a joke. But the conversation, which took place during the president’s visit to the border town of Calexico, Calif., alarmed officials at the Department of Homeland Security who were told of it, according to the people familiar with the remarks. It was another instance of the president trying to undo a decision and to stretch the boundaries of his power, even when told there were legal issues at stake. The same situation played out on Friday, when Mr. Trump said he was considering releasing asylum seekers into so-called sanctuary cities after administration officials told reporters the proposal was rejected because of legal issues. The day before his conversation with Mr. McAleenan, Mr. Trump had retreated from his threat to close the border in a matter of days. Instead, he told reporters, he was issuing a “one-year warning” to Mexico to halt illegal immigration and drug trafficking. Privately, however, he was still pushing his aides to halt the flow of asylum seekers across the Mexican border. Besides Mr. McAleenan, who was then the commissioner of Customs and Border Protection, Mr. Trump was accompanied on the trip by Kirstjen Nielsen, the secretary of homeland security at the time. Ms. Nielsen had earlier refused to carry through with Mr. Trump’s desire to close the border, telling him it was illegal. But the president encouraged Mr. McAleenan to disregard Ms. Nielsen and enforce the move himself. Two days later, Ms. Nielsen submitted her resignation under pressure from Mr. Trump, and the president appointed Mr. McAleenan to her job on an acting basis. A White House spokesman declined to respond to requests for comment on the conversation between the president and Mr. McAleenan. Tyler Q. Houlton, a spokesman for the Department of Homeland Security, did not specifically address it. “At no time has the president indicated, asked, directed or pressured the acting secretary to do anything illegal,” Mr. Houlton said. “Nor would the acting secretary take actions that are not in accordance with our responsibility to enforce the law.” Mr. Trump’s desire to close the border, despite the legal impediments, was a factor in the forced resignation of Ms. Nielsen. It was one of a number of instances in which Ms. Nielsen believed she was being asked to engage in conduct that violated laws, according to several people with knowledge of those discussions. The president’s conversation with Mr. McAleenan came at a time when Mr. Trump was considering him as a successor to Ms. Nielsen, whom he was planning to remove from her job, according to officials familiar with his timing. It also came as the factions in the West Wing seeking to oversee immigration policy had been fighting for dominance, creating confusion for the department about whom to deal with or respond to. The discussion with Mr. McAleenan was one of the most acute examples of Mr. Trump’s desire to use any means to stem the tide of immigrants into the United States, and a reminder of what he would like to see as the unilateral powers of the presidency. Mr. Trump has been growing increasingly agitated about images of the border he has seen on television, and distressed by the number of immigrants entering the country from the border with Mexico. More undocumented immigrants were apprehended along the southern border in March than in any month since 2007, Customs and Border Protection reported this week. In response, the president has ramped up his messaging against not just illegal immigration but also legal immigration, mocking asylum seekers as fakes who are pretending to face difficult conditions to ease their passage across the border. While Mr. Trump has not publicly revisited closing the border, he has repeatedly excoriated Democrats over immigration policy and suggested that he will take more aggressive steps at the border. “I’m going to have to call up more military,” Mr. Trump told reporters during a visit to San Antonio this week. “Our military, don’t forget, can’t act like they would normally act because if they got a little rough, everybody would go crazy.” Mr. Trump’s insistence that he was still considering placing undocumented immigrants in sanctuary cities “due to the fact that Democrats are unwilling to change our very dangerous immigration laws” came in a tweet on Friday morning. That statement directly contradicted his own aides, who on Thursday had described the proposal as a “suggestion that was floated and rejected, which ended any further discussion.” But Mr. Trump was eager to continue the discussion. If Democrats did not agree to new immigration policies, Mr. Trump told reporters at the White House on Friday, “we might as well do what they always say they want.” “We’ll bring them to sanctuary city areas and let that particular area take care of it,” Mr. Trump continued, adding that California welcomed the idea of more people coming to the state. “We can give them a lot. We can give them an unlimited supply,” he said. After Mr. Trump’s comments, a White House spokesman indicated that the proposal was now back on the table, and that Democrats should work with the administration to welcome migrants into their districts. “Democrats say we must have open borders and that illegal immigrants have a right to be in this country at all costs,” the spokesman, Hogan Gidley said, “so they should be working with the administration to find the best ways to transport those illegal aliens that are already set for release, into communities in their districts and states.” Democratic lawmakers, however, are not advocating “open borders,” as the president has suggested. They favor enhancing border security, but do not support many of Mr. Trump’s hard-line immigration policy proposals, such as building a wall along the southern border. Last year, Trump administration officials had floated the idea of transporting migrants to sanctuary cities, which limit how local law enforcement can cooperate with federal immigration officers, as a way to address the influx of migrants crossing the border. One of the highest-profile sanctuary cities is San Francisco, home to Speaker Nancy Pelosi, one of the most effective opponents of the president’s efforts to change American immigration laws. The White House raised the proposal again in February, seeing it as a way to punish Democrats for their opposition. Ms. Pelosi’s office condemned the plan. “The extent of this administration’s cynicism and cruelty cannot be overstated,” said Ashley Etienne, a spokeswoman for Ms. Pelosi. “Using human beings — including little children — as pawns in their warped game to perpetuate fear and demonize immigrants is despicable, and in some cases, criminal.” Zolan Kanno-Youngs, Michael D. Shear and Eileen Sullivan contributed reporting.  The president’s longtime fixer had, for months, sought “a little loving and respect.” Confidential emails and texts chronicle their momentous falling out. Michael D. Cohen, who once served as the president’s lawyer, testified in February that his former boss was a “con man.”CreditCreditT.J. Kirkpatrick for The New York Times Supported by By Ben Protess, William K. Rashbaum and Maggie Haberman Michael D. Cohen was at a breaking point. He told friends he was suicidal. He insisted to lawyers he would never go to jail. Most of all, he feared that President Trump, his longtime boss, had forsaken him. “Basically he needs a little loving and respect booster,” one of Mr. Cohen’s legal advisers at the time, Robert J. Costello, wrote in a text message to Rudolph W. Giuliani, the president’s lead lawyer. “He is not thinking clearly because he feels abandoned.” That was last June. The “booster” from Mr. Trump never arrived. And by August, Mr. Cohen’s relationship with him had gone from fraught to hostile, casting a shadow on the Trump presidency and helping drive multiple criminal investigations into the president’s inner circle, including some that continued after the special counsel’s work ended. In the biggest blow to the president personally, federal prosecutors in Manhattan effectively characterized Mr. Trump as an unindicted co-conspirator in a criminal case against Mr. Cohen involving hush money payments to a pornographic film actress. Mr. Cohen, and evidence gathered by prosecutors, implicated the president. Now, as Mr. Cohen prepares to head to prison in two weeks, dozens of previously unreported emails, text messages and other confidential documents reviewed by The New York Times suggest that his falling out with Mr. Trump may have been avoidable. Missed cues, clashing egos, veiled threats and unaddressed money worries all contributed to Mr. Cohen’s halting decision to turn on a man he had long idolized and even once vowed to take a bullet for, according to the documents and interviews with people close to the events. Some of the documents have been turned over to the prosecutors in Manhattan, and a small number were mentioned in the special counsel’s report released on Thursday, which dealt extensively with Mr. Cohen and referred to him more than 800 times. Mr. Cohen held out hope for a different outcome until the very end, when he pleaded guilty and confessed to paying the illegal hush money to avert a potential sex scandal during the presidential campaign. Just hours earlier, wracked with indecision, he was still seeking guidance, looking, as one informal adviser put it, “for another way out.” Mr. Cohen’s anxiety, on display in the documents, played a role in the undoing of his relationship with Mr. Trump, as did Mr. Costello’s lack of success in serving as a bridge to the White House. But also looming large were Mr. Giuliani’s and Mr. Trump’s failures to understand the threat that Mr. Cohen posed, and their inability — or unwillingness — to put his financial and emotional insecurities to rest. After the Federal Bureau of Investigation raided Mr. Cohen’s home, office and hotel room last April, two of Mr. Cohen’s advisers explored whether the president might be open to a pardon, but Mr. Giuliani offered no assurances. In June, Mr. Costello proposed that he and Mr. Giuliani, who have been friends for decades, meet urgently with Mr. Cohen to address his grievances and ease his anxieties. “Are we going to meet Thursday or Friday?” Mr. Costello texted Mr. Giuliani on a Monday. “I would like to get back to Michael with a response.” But Mr. Giuliani did not respond. And when Mr. Costello followed up, “Can I get a response on the possible meeting?” Mr. Giuliani hesitated, replying, “Not yet because haven’t talked to President,” who was out of the country. The next day, Mr. Cohen’s private admission to friends that he was open to cooperating with prosecutors suddenly appeared in the news. And Mr. Cohen relayed his growing displeasure with the Trump camp to Mr. Costello, sending the lawyer an article that suggested the president and his allies intended “to discredit Michael Cohen” and commenting in the email that “they are again on a bad path.” He also complained to Mr. Costello that the president had stopped covering his legal expenses. Mr. Costello, who spoke with The Times after Mr. Cohen waived attorney-client privilege in February, said that without Mr. Cohen’s team and the president’s lawyers in sync, it was impossible to navigate the tumultuous relationship. “What we had here was a failure to communicate,” said Mr. Costello, who was never formally retained by Mr. Cohen. “My mission was to get everyone tuned in to the same channel. My thought was a face-to-face meeting among all the lawyers together with Cohen would put everyone on the same channel. The meeting never happened, and the rest is history.” In an interview, Mr. Giuliani acknowledged that the Trump team had pulled back from Mr. Cohen, saying it did so because prosecutors might have viewed friendly overtures as witness tampering, and because Mr. Cohen’s legal problems extended beyond his relationship with the president. “It seemed like an unfortunate but sensible decision,” he said of the Trump team’s reticence toward Mr. Cohen. “The more I look back at it, the more I wonder if it was inevitable that Michael was going to crack.” Mr. Cohen declined to comment, but his spokesman, Lanny Davis, suggested that the Trump team had initially tried to keep Mr. Cohen in “the liar’s club” of people covering for the president. After pleading guilty in August, and hoping to reduce his three-year prison sentence, Mr. Cohen told federal prosecutors about Mr. Trump’s role in the hush-money scheme, as well as other aspects of the president’s company, where he had worked for a decade. He also suggested Mr. Trump’s team had dangled a pardon to keep him loyal, according to Mr. Davis, who described the effort as more an attempt “to keep Cohen in the tent of those lying and protecting Trump than anything else.” Mr. Giuliani denied that a pardon had been offered. Mr. Costello told prosecutors in a recent meeting that the pardon discussion had been initiated by Mr. Cohen and rejected by Mr. Giuliani. Unencumbered by the restraints on the investigation by Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, the prosecutors are now scrutinizing a wider swath of the president’s associates. About a dozen investigations are underway, including an inquiry into the Trump inaugural committee, which Mr. Cohen had assisted. Mr. Cohen also delivered congressional testimony that accused Mr. Trump of being a racist and a “con man.” The relationship between Mr. Cohen and Mr. Trump was looking up, at least for a brief period, last April. Just days after F.B.I. agents searched his hotel room on Park Avenue, Mr. Cohen received a phone call from the president. “Stay strong,” Mr. Trump told him, according to the Mueller report and a person with knowledge of the call. Mr. Cohen thanked Mr. Trump repeatedly, and later told people the message was clear: The president, who had a history of treating Mr. Cohen poorly, wanted to keep him on his team. As federal prosecutors in Manhattan built a criminal case against Mr. Cohen, he set out to find a lawyer who had experience with the Manhattan United States attorney’s office, known as the Southern District of New York. That’s when an acquaintance at a local law firm emailed him to pitch the services of his colleague Mr. Costello. The firm was eager to become associated with such a high-profile case, and quickly embraced Mr. Cohen. “I am really sorry to read about your troubles,” the acquaintance, Jeffrey Citron, wrote. “My partner Bob Costello was formerly the deputy chief of the criminal division of the U.S. Attorney’s office for the Southern District.” He said that if Mr. Cohen wanted to connect with Mr. Costello and obtain “his insight into your situation, it would be my pleasure to arrange.” Mr. Cohen jumped at the offer: “I do. Can you connect me to him?” Mr. Cohen met that day with Mr. Citron and Mr. Costello in a conference room at the Loews Regency Hotel, where he had been staying while his home underwent renovations. After drawing the curtains, Mr. Cohen revealed the depths of his despair. “I was up on the roof. I was thinking of jumping,” Mr. Cohen told the two men, according to Mr. Costello. Over the course of the two-hour meeting, Mr. Cohen and Mr. Costello discussed options for digging out of the mess, including possibly seeking immunity from prosecution in exchange for cooperation. They also talked about whether state prosecutors could charge Mr. Cohen even if the president pardoned him, Mr. Costello said. And they discussed, in passing, Mr. Costello’s friendship with Mr. Giuliani. When Mr. Giuliani was hired by the president a few days later, Mr. Costello emailed Mr. Cohen: “I told you my relationship with Rudy which could be very very useful for you.” “Great news,” Mr. Cohen replied. The next day, after speaking to Mr. Giuliani by phone, Mr. Costello wrote in an email to Mr. Citron that the president’s lead lawyer had been “thrilled that I reached out to him about Cohen.” He added that Mr. Giuliani was “calling the president tonight.” Mr. Costello also shared his upbeat assessment with Mr. Cohen. “I just spoke to Rudy Giuliani and told him I was on your team,” he wrote in an email sent late that night. “Rudy was thrilled and said this could not be a better situation for the president or you.” He continued, “He said thank you for opening this back channel of communication and asked me to keep in touch.” Mr. Trump praised Mr. Cohen on Twitter the next day, calling him “a fine person” and predicting he would not flip. After another conversation with Mr. Giuliani, Mr. Costello sent Mr. Cohen an update: “They are in our corner,” he wrote in an email. “You have friends in high places.” Mr. Cohen believed at the time that “he had the support of the White House if he continued to toe the party line,” according to the special counsel’s report. “He determined to stay on message and be part of the team.” The glow faded quickly, however, as a series of developments stoked Mr. Cohen’s suspicions about Mr. Trump’s intentions toward him. First, later in April, Mr. Giuliani rebuffed Mr. Costello’s question about whether Mr. Trump might entertain the idea of a pardon, according to Mr. Costello. Mr. Cohen also asked his Washington-based lawyer, Stephen Ryan, to make a similar inquiry, and Mr. Giuliani was noncommittal. Mr. Ryan had been working at the time with the president’s legal team to prevent prosecutors from reviewing materials seized in the F.B.I. raids that were protected by attorney-client privilege. Next, Mr. Trump called in to the television program “Fox & Friends” and tried to minimize the legal work that Mr. Cohen had performed for him — “a tiny, tiny little fraction,” he said. Those comments appeared to undermine Mr. Cohen’s argument that many of the seized materials might be privileged. A week after that, in early May, it was a television appearance by Mr. Giuliani that upset Mr. Cohen. Under an information-sharing agreement among the lawyers, Mr. Ryan had discussed with Mr. Giuliani that the Trumps had reimbursed Mr. Cohen for the hush money he paid to the pornographic film actress Stormy Daniels. Without notifying Mr. Cohen or his representatives, Mr. Giuliani then delivered the revelation on Fox News. Mr. Cohen became concerned that the Trump team was disseminating information about him gleaned from the agreement, and that it was being done with Mr. Trump’s knowledge. As the president’s lead lawyer continued to publicly discuss the hush-money scheme in the days and weeks that followed, Mr. Cohen told associates that Mr. Giuliani was “blowing this whole thing.” Days after Mr. Giuliani appeared on Fox News, Mr. Costello confided to Mr. Citron, his partner, about his mounting concerns that Mr. Cohen was stringing them along. “There are simply too many facts that he is not sharing with us to give me a level of comfort,” Mr. Costello wrote to Mr. Citron. He suggested that Mr. Cohen’s distrust of Mr. Giuliani was also a factor. “I do not think that Rudy doing his Press Tour is helping us in our relationship with Michael Cohen,” he wrote. Soon after, Mr. Cohen was dealt another blow when confidential financial records were leaked, showing that he had collected more than $1 million in consulting fees from major corporations and from a New York private equity firm tied to a Russian oligarch. With the special counsel investigating Russian interference in the 2016 election, Mr. Cohen was suddenly back in the discussion about Mr. Trump’s ties to Russia. Mr. Costello emailed him words of encouragement — “keep on punching” — but Mr. Cohen did not reply. Mr. Costello doubled down, later emailing Mr. Cohen in all caps that Mr. Mueller had “REACHED THE CONCLUSION THAT THERE IS NO RUSSIAN ANGLE TO THE MICHAEL COHEN INVESTIGATION OTHERWISE HE WOULD HAVE KEPT THE CASE FOR HIMSELF.” Mr. Costello made the same point in a text message to Mr. Giuliani, who “thought it was very important to get that message out there,” Mr. Costello recounted in an email to Mr. Citron. But, Mr. Costello said, Mr. Giuliani suggested he could not make that case himself, “because it will look like he is defending Michael Cohen.” The challenge, Mr. Costello continued, was “to get Cohen on the right page without giving him the appearance that we are following instructions from Giuliani or the president.” By mid-June, despite warning signs that Mr. Cohen might turn on the president, some members of Mr. Trump’s team concluded that he did not pose a real threat, interviews show. Mr. Giuliani never met with Mr. Cohen, though Mr. Costello had suggested it might help. And the same day that ABC News reported that Mr. Cohen was “likely to cooperate” with prosecutors, Mr. Giuliani appeared on Fox News and played down the possibility of Mr. Cohen’s flipping, saying he had “checked into this last night” and it was not true. The next day, Mr. Costello sent Mr. Cohen a link to Mr. Giuliani’s interview. And when Mr. Cohen asked, “Why send this to me?” Mr. Costello explained, “You are under the impression that Trump and Giuliani are trying to discredit you.” He continued, “I think you are wrong because you are believing the narrative promoted by the left-wing media.” Mr. Costello also texted Mr. Giuliani a note praising the interview, adding that he had sent a YouTube clip of it to Mr. Cohen in hopes that it would calm him down. But later that month, any good will dissipated when The Times reported that the F.B.I. had seized in its raid a tape recording of Mr. Cohen and Mr. Trump from 2016. The two men were discussing hush money paid to another woman, Karen McDougal, who claimed to have had an affair with Mr. Trump. Each side blamed the other for the explosive revelation, pushing the relationship to a near breaking point. Later in June, Vanity Fair reported that Mr. Cohen had hired a new lawyer — not Mr. Costello, but Guy Petrillo, a former federal prosecutor who had worked in the Southern District alongside James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director and a Trump foil. Mr. Costello raised concerns with Mr. Giuliani. “Does Cohen really want a friend of Comey as his lawyer?” he asked in a text message. At the same time, Mr. Cohen’s concerns about money were reaching a crisis, according to court records. Mr. Trump’s business and campaign had paid about $1.7 million of Mr. Cohen’s legal bills, but stopped paying in June, around the time Mr. Ryan finished reviewing the documents seized in the F.B.I. raid and withdrew from the case. An official with Mr. Ryan’s firm declined to comment. Mr. Cohen wanted the Trump Organization to also help pay Mr. Petrillo, which never happened. In the interview with The Times, Mr. Giuliani said that he was new to the issue of the legal fees at the time, having just been hired by Mr. Trump a couple of months earlier. He said that the decision was made by the Trump Organization to pay for legal work only if it was expressly connected to Mr. Trump or the company. A lawyer for the Trump Organization said Mr. Cohen’s criminal problems were of his own making. “He should quit lying and take responsibility for his actions,” said the lawyer, Marc L. Mukasey. “The idea that the Trump Organization should have paid his legal fees and expenses is a total crock.” Distrust between the two sides only grew in June when the comedian Tom Arnold tweeted a selfie with Mr. Cohen and later claimed that they were teaming up to take down the president. Mr. Giuliani, sounding alarmed, phoned Mr. Costello while he was having lunch at Bobby Van’s Steakhouse — the president wanted to know what this was about. After lunch, Mr. Costello tried to reach Mr. Cohen, who was slow to reply. “Is he totally nuts???” Mr. Costello wrote in frustration to his law partner. “He is playing with the most powerful man on the planet.” When Mr. Cohen finally sent along a clarification from Mr. Arnold, Mr. Costello texted Mr. Giuliani. “Make sure your client knows this,” he wrote. “He will sleep better.” Mr. Cohen then asked Mr. Costello to make things right with Mr. Giuliani, Mr. Costello recalled, and assure Mr. Trump that he remained loyal. So Mr. Costello had lunch in late June with Mr. Giuliani at the Grand Havana Room on the top floor of 666 Fifth Avenue. Afterward, he assured Mr. Cohen in an email that he had “conveyed all of your expressed concerns” to Mr. Giuliani “for transmission to his client” — the president. Mr. Cohen replied, thanking him for “speaking to your friend.” Still, Mr. Cohen heard nothing from the Trump legal team, and no additional legal fees were paid by the Trump Organization. By early July, Mr. Cohen was making overtly hostile moves toward the president. He appeared on ABC’s “Good Morning America” and declared, “My wife, my daughter and my son have my first loyalty and always will.” He deleted the line in his Twitter biography about working for Mr. Trump. And he hired Mr. Davis, a Democrat and a friend of the Clintons, as a spokesman. Mr. Davis said that he asked Mr. Cohen at the time why he wanted to hire him. “I now fear for my family and my country,” Mr. Davis recalled Mr. Cohen’s saying. “So I decided to turn and tell the truth — and ask you to announce I wouldn’t accept a pardon if I was offered one.” A person who was familiar with Mr. Cohen’s decision-making at the time said the moves might have been a cry for help, but Mr. Costello and others saw them as evidence that he had “chosen a different path,” as Mr. Costello wrote to Mr. Cohen in an email. “We will not be involved in that journey and therefore Jeff Citron asked me to let you know that he will be sending you a bill,” the email said. Within weeks, Mr. Giuliani, who had previously referred to Mr. Cohen as “an honest, honorable lawyer,” was instead casting him as a “pathological liar.” His bond with Mr. Trump all but broken, Mr. Cohen decided to cooperate with law enforcement officials. And so he traveled to Washington to meet on Aug. 7 with Mr. Mueller’s team for the first of many discussions. The next week, his lawyer, Mr. Petrillo, arranged to talk with prosecutors in Manhattan, interviews show. The prosecutors had been putting him off but suddenly agreed to meet a couple of days later, on Friday, an indication that criminal charges against Mr. Cohen were imminent. Mr. Petrillo asked for a deferred prosecution agreement relating to the hush money, a lighter punishment that might have spared Mr. Cohen from prison so long as he stayed out of trouble. That weekend the prosecutors signaled there would be no such deal, but they were willing to consider a guilty plea. Over the next day, Mr. Cohen and his wife huddled in Mr. Petrillo’s office debating their options. And throughout the day on Monday, his lawyers went back and forth with prosecutors over the details of the plea to campaign finance, banking and tax crimes. But that evening, Mr. Cohen was still unsure whether to plead guilty at all. He poured a glass of 12-year-old Glenlivet Scotch on the rocks and debated his future. Early on Tuesday, he was still having second thoughts, but ultimately stuck to the plan. Standing at the defense table, Mr. Cohen said he had worked with Mr. Trump to cover up two potential sex scandals, including the one involving Ms. Daniels. He confessed that he had arranged the hush money “in coordination with, and at the direction of, a candidate for federal office,” implicating the president publicly for the first time in a federal campaign finance crime. “Time and time again,” Mr. Cohen later told the judge at his sentencing, “I felt it was my duty to cover up his dirty deeds.” Matt Apuzzo contributed reporting.   

The president’s longtime fixer had, for months, sought “a little loving and respect.” Confidential emails and texts chronicle their momentous falling out. Michael D. Cohen, who once served as the president’s lawyer, testified in February that his former boss was a “con man.”CreditCreditT.J. Kirkpatrick for The New York Times Supported by By Ben Protess, William K. Rashbaum and Maggie Haberman Michael D. Cohen was at a breaking point. He told friends he was suicidal. He insisted to lawyers he would never go to jail. Most of all, he feared that President Trump, his longtime boss, had forsaken him. “Basically he needs a little loving and respect booster,” one of Mr. Cohen’s legal advisers at the time, Robert J. Costello, wrote in a text message to Rudolph W. Giuliani, the president’s lead lawyer. “He is not thinking clearly because he feels abandoned.” That was last June. The “booster” from Mr. Trump never arrived. And by August, Mr. Cohen’s relationship with him had gone from fraught to hostile, casting a shadow on the Trump presidency and helping drive multiple criminal investigations into the president’s inner circle, including some that continued after the special counsel’s work ended. In the biggest blow to the president personally, federal prosecutors in Manhattan effectively characterized Mr. Trump as an unindicted co-conspirator in a criminal case against Mr. Cohen involving hush money payments to a pornographic film actress. Mr. Cohen, and evidence gathered by prosecutors, implicated the president. Now, as Mr. Cohen prepares to head to prison in two weeks, dozens of previously unreported emails, text messages and other confidential documents reviewed by The New York Times suggest that his falling out with Mr. Trump may have been avoidable. Missed cues, clashing egos, veiled threats and unaddressed money worries all contributed to Mr. Cohen’s halting decision to turn on a man he had long idolized and even once vowed to take a bullet for, according to the documents and interviews with people close to the events. Some of the documents have been turned over to the prosecutors in Manhattan, and a small number were mentioned in the special counsel’s report released on Thursday, which dealt extensively with Mr. Cohen and referred to him more than 800 times. Mr. Cohen held out hope for a different outcome until the very end, when he pleaded guilty and confessed to paying the illegal hush money to avert a potential sex scandal during the presidential campaign. Just hours earlier, wracked with indecision, he was still seeking guidance, looking, as one informal adviser put it, “for another way out.” Mr. Cohen’s anxiety, on display in the documents, played a role in the undoing of his relationship with Mr. Trump, as did Mr. Costello’s lack of success in serving as a bridge to the White House. But also looming large were Mr. Giuliani’s and Mr. Trump’s failures to understand the threat that Mr. Cohen posed, and their inability — or unwillingness — to put his financial and emotional insecurities to rest. After the Federal Bureau of Investigation raided Mr. Cohen’s home, office and hotel room last April, two of Mr. Cohen’s advisers explored whether the president might be open to a pardon, but Mr. Giuliani offered no assurances. In June, Mr. Costello proposed that he and Mr. Giuliani, who have been friends for decades, meet urgently with Mr. Cohen to address his grievances and ease his anxieties. “Are we going to meet Thursday or Friday?” Mr. Costello texted Mr. Giuliani on a Monday. “I would like to get back to Michael with a response.” But Mr. Giuliani did not respond. And when Mr. Costello followed up, “Can I get a response on the possible meeting?” Mr. Giuliani hesitated, replying, “Not yet because haven’t talked to President,” who was out of the country. The next day, Mr. Cohen’s private admission to friends that he was open to cooperating with prosecutors suddenly appeared in the news. And Mr. Cohen relayed his growing displeasure with the Trump camp to Mr. Costello, sending the lawyer an article that suggested the president and his allies intended “to discredit Michael Cohen” and commenting in the email that “they are again on a bad path.” He also complained to Mr. Costello that the president had stopped covering his legal expenses. Mr. Costello, who spoke with The Times after Mr. Cohen waived attorney-client privilege in February, said that without Mr. Cohen’s team and the president’s lawyers in sync, it was impossible to navigate the tumultuous relationship. “What we had here was a failure to communicate,” said Mr. Costello, who was never formally retained by Mr. Cohen. “My mission was to get everyone tuned in to the same channel. My thought was a face-to-face meeting among all the lawyers together with Cohen would put everyone on the same channel. The meeting never happened, and the rest is history.” In an interview, Mr. Giuliani acknowledged that the Trump team had pulled back from Mr. Cohen, saying it did so because prosecutors might have viewed friendly overtures as witness tampering, and because Mr. Cohen’s legal problems extended beyond his relationship with the president. “It seemed like an unfortunate but sensible decision,” he said of the Trump team’s reticence toward Mr. Cohen. “The more I look back at it, the more I wonder if it was inevitable that Michael was going to crack.” Mr. Cohen declined to comment, but his spokesman, Lanny Davis, suggested that the Trump team had initially tried to keep Mr. Cohen in “the liar’s club” of people covering for the president. After pleading guilty in August, and hoping to reduce his three-year prison sentence, Mr. Cohen told federal prosecutors about Mr. Trump’s role in the hush-money scheme, as well as other aspects of the president’s company, where he had worked for a decade. He also suggested Mr. Trump’s team had dangled a pardon to keep him loyal, according to Mr. Davis, who described the effort as more an attempt “to keep Cohen in the tent of those lying and protecting Trump than anything else.” Mr. Giuliani denied that a pardon had been offered. Mr. Costello told prosecutors in a recent meeting that the pardon discussion had been initiated by Mr. Cohen and rejected by Mr. Giuliani. Unencumbered by the restraints on the investigation by Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, the prosecutors are now scrutinizing a wider swath of the president’s associates. About a dozen investigations are underway, including an inquiry into the Trump inaugural committee, which Mr. Cohen had assisted. Mr. Cohen also delivered congressional testimony that accused Mr. Trump of being a racist and a “con man.” The relationship between Mr. Cohen and Mr. Trump was looking up, at least for a brief period, last April. Just days after F.B.I. agents searched his hotel room on Park Avenue, Mr. Cohen received a phone call from the president. “Stay strong,” Mr. Trump told him, according to the Mueller report and a person with knowledge of the call. Mr. Cohen thanked Mr. Trump repeatedly, and later told people the message was clear: The president, who had a history of treating Mr. Cohen poorly, wanted to keep him on his team. As federal prosecutors in Manhattan built a criminal case against Mr. Cohen, he set out to find a lawyer who had experience with the Manhattan United States attorney’s office, known as the Southern District of New York. That’s when an acquaintance at a local law firm emailed him to pitch the services of his colleague Mr. Costello. The firm was eager to become associated with such a high-profile case, and quickly embraced Mr. Cohen. “I am really sorry to read about your troubles,” the acquaintance, Jeffrey Citron, wrote. “My partner Bob Costello was formerly the deputy chief of the criminal division of the U.S. Attorney’s office for the Southern District.” He said that if Mr. Cohen wanted to connect with Mr. Costello and obtain “his insight into your situation, it would be my pleasure to arrange.” Mr. Cohen jumped at the offer: “I do. Can you connect me to him?” Mr. Cohen met that day with Mr. Citron and Mr. Costello in a conference room at the Loews Regency Hotel, where he had been staying while his home underwent renovations. After drawing the curtains, Mr. Cohen revealed the depths of his despair. “I was up on the roof. I was thinking of jumping,” Mr. Cohen told the two men, according to Mr. Costello. Over the course of the two-hour meeting, Mr. Cohen and Mr. Costello discussed options for digging out of the mess, including possibly seeking immunity from prosecution in exchange for cooperation. They also talked about whether state prosecutors could charge Mr. Cohen even if the president pardoned him, Mr. Costello said. And they discussed, in passing, Mr. Costello’s friendship with Mr. Giuliani. When Mr. Giuliani was hired by the president a few days later, Mr. Costello emailed Mr. Cohen: “I told you my relationship with Rudy which could be very very useful for you.” “Great news,” Mr. Cohen replied. The next day, after speaking to Mr. Giuliani by phone, Mr. Costello wrote in an email to Mr. Citron that the president’s lead lawyer had been “thrilled that I reached out to him about Cohen.” He added that Mr. Giuliani was “calling the president tonight.” Mr. Costello also shared his upbeat assessment with Mr. Cohen. “I just spoke to Rudy Giuliani and told him I was on your team,” he wrote in an email sent late that night. “Rudy was thrilled and said this could not be a better situation for the president or you.” He continued, “He said thank you for opening this back channel of communication and asked me to keep in touch.” Mr. Trump praised Mr. Cohen on Twitter the next day, calling him “a fine person” and predicting he would not flip. After another conversation with Mr. Giuliani, Mr. Costello sent Mr. Cohen an update: “They are in our corner,” he wrote in an email. “You have friends in high places.” Mr. Cohen believed at the time that “he had the support of the White House if he continued to toe the party line,” according to the special counsel’s report. “He determined to stay on message and be part of the team.” The glow faded quickly, however, as a series of developments stoked Mr. Cohen’s suspicions about Mr. Trump’s intentions toward him. First, later in April, Mr. Giuliani rebuffed Mr. Costello’s question about whether Mr. Trump might entertain the idea of a pardon, according to Mr. Costello. Mr. Cohen also asked his Washington-based lawyer, Stephen Ryan, to make a similar inquiry, and Mr. Giuliani was noncommittal. Mr. Ryan had been working at the time with the president’s legal team to prevent prosecutors from reviewing materials seized in the F.B.I. raids that were protected by attorney-client privilege. Next, Mr. Trump called in to the television program “Fox & Friends” and tried to minimize the legal work that Mr. Cohen had performed for him — “a tiny, tiny little fraction,” he said. Those comments appeared to undermine Mr. Cohen’s argument that many of the seized materials might be privileged. A week after that, in early May, it was a television appearance by Mr. Giuliani that upset Mr. Cohen. Under an information-sharing agreement among the lawyers, Mr. Ryan had discussed with Mr. Giuliani that the Trumps had reimbursed Mr. Cohen for the hush money he paid to the pornographic film actress Stormy Daniels. Without notifying Mr. Cohen or his representatives, Mr. Giuliani then delivered the revelation on Fox News. Mr. Cohen became concerned that the Trump team was disseminating information about him gleaned from the agreement, and that it was being done with Mr. Trump’s knowledge. As the president’s lead lawyer continued to publicly discuss the hush-money scheme in the days and weeks that followed, Mr. Cohen told associates that Mr. Giuliani was “blowing this whole thing.” Days after Mr. Giuliani appeared on Fox News, Mr. Costello confided to Mr. Citron, his partner, about his mounting concerns that Mr. Cohen was stringing them along. “There are simply too many facts that he is not sharing with us to give me a level of comfort,” Mr. Costello wrote to Mr. Citron. He suggested that Mr. Cohen’s distrust of Mr. Giuliani was also a factor. “I do not think that Rudy doing his Press Tour is helping us in our relationship with Michael Cohen,” he wrote. Soon after, Mr. Cohen was dealt another blow when confidential financial records were leaked, showing that he had collected more than $1 million in consulting fees from major corporations and from a New York private equity firm tied to a Russian oligarch. With the special counsel investigating Russian interference in the 2016 election, Mr. Cohen was suddenly back in the discussion about Mr. Trump’s ties to Russia. Mr. Costello emailed him words of encouragement — “keep on punching” — but Mr. Cohen did not reply. Mr. Costello doubled down, later emailing Mr. Cohen in all caps that Mr. Mueller had “REACHED THE CONCLUSION THAT THERE IS NO RUSSIAN ANGLE TO THE MICHAEL COHEN INVESTIGATION OTHERWISE HE WOULD HAVE KEPT THE CASE FOR HIMSELF.” Mr. Costello made the same point in a text message to Mr. Giuliani, who “thought it was very important to get that message out there,” Mr. Costello recounted in an email to Mr. Citron. But, Mr. Costello said, Mr. Giuliani suggested he could not make that case himself, “because it will look like he is defending Michael Cohen.” The challenge, Mr. Costello continued, was “to get Cohen on the right page without giving him the appearance that we are following instructions from Giuliani or the president.” By mid-June, despite warning signs that Mr. Cohen might turn on the president, some members of Mr. Trump’s team concluded that he did not pose a real threat, interviews show. Mr. Giuliani never met with Mr. Cohen, though Mr. Costello had suggested it might help. And the same day that ABC News reported that Mr. Cohen was “likely to cooperate” with prosecutors, Mr. Giuliani appeared on Fox News and played down the possibility of Mr. Cohen’s flipping, saying he had “checked into this last night” and it was not true. The next day, Mr. Costello sent Mr. Cohen a link to Mr. Giuliani’s interview. And when Mr. Cohen asked, “Why send this to me?” Mr. Costello explained, “You are under the impression that Trump and Giuliani are trying to discredit you.” He continued, “I think you are wrong because you are believing the narrative promoted by the left-wing media.” Mr. Costello also texted Mr. Giuliani a note praising the interview, adding that he had sent a YouTube clip of it to Mr. Cohen in hopes that it would calm him down. But later that month, any good will dissipated when The Times reported that the F.B.I. had seized in its raid a tape recording of Mr. Cohen and Mr. Trump from 2016. The two men were discussing hush money paid to another woman, Karen McDougal, who claimed to have had an affair with Mr. Trump. Each side blamed the other for the explosive revelation, pushing the relationship to a near breaking point. Later in June, Vanity Fair reported that Mr. Cohen had hired a new lawyer — not Mr. Costello, but Guy Petrillo, a former federal prosecutor who had worked in the Southern District alongside James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director and a Trump foil. Mr. Costello raised concerns with Mr. Giuliani. “Does Cohen really want a friend of Comey as his lawyer?” he asked in a text message. At the same time, Mr. Cohen’s concerns about money were reaching a crisis, according to court records. Mr. Trump’s business and campaign had paid about $1.7 million of Mr. Cohen’s legal bills, but stopped paying in June, around the time Mr. Ryan finished reviewing the documents seized in the F.B.I. raid and withdrew from the case. An official with Mr. Ryan’s firm declined to comment. Mr. Cohen wanted the Trump Organization to also help pay Mr. Petrillo, which never happened. In the interview with The Times, Mr. Giuliani said that he was new to the issue of the legal fees at the time, having just been hired by Mr. Trump a couple of months earlier. He said that the decision was made by the Trump Organization to pay for legal work only if it was expressly connected to Mr. Trump or the company. A lawyer for the Trump Organization said Mr. Cohen’s criminal problems were of his own making. “He should quit lying and take responsibility for his actions,” said the lawyer, Marc L. Mukasey. “The idea that the Trump Organization should have paid his legal fees and expenses is a total crock.” Distrust between the two sides only grew in June when the comedian Tom Arnold tweeted a selfie with Mr. Cohen and later claimed that they were teaming up to take down the president. Mr. Giuliani, sounding alarmed, phoned Mr. Costello while he was having lunch at Bobby Van’s Steakhouse — the president wanted to know what this was about. After lunch, Mr. Costello tried to reach Mr. Cohen, who was slow to reply. “Is he totally nuts???” Mr. Costello wrote in frustration to his law partner. “He is playing with the most powerful man on the planet.” When Mr. Cohen finally sent along a clarification from Mr. Arnold, Mr. Costello texted Mr. Giuliani. “Make sure your client knows this,” he wrote. “He will sleep better.” Mr. Cohen then asked Mr. Costello to make things right with Mr. Giuliani, Mr. Costello recalled, and assure Mr. Trump that he remained loyal. So Mr. Costello had lunch in late June with Mr. Giuliani at the Grand Havana Room on the top floor of 666 Fifth Avenue. Afterward, he assured Mr. Cohen in an email that he had “conveyed all of your expressed concerns” to Mr. Giuliani “for transmission to his client” — the president. Mr. Cohen replied, thanking him for “speaking to your friend.” Still, Mr. Cohen heard nothing from the Trump legal team, and no additional legal fees were paid by the Trump Organization. By early July, Mr. Cohen was making overtly hostile moves toward the president. He appeared on ABC’s “Good Morning America” and declared, “My wife, my daughter and my son have my first loyalty and always will.” He deleted the line in his Twitter biography about working for Mr. Trump. And he hired Mr. Davis, a Democrat and a friend of the Clintons, as a spokesman. Mr. Davis said that he asked Mr. Cohen at the time why he wanted to hire him. “I now fear for my family and my country,” Mr. Davis recalled Mr. Cohen’s saying. “So I decided to turn and tell the truth — and ask you to announce I wouldn’t accept a pardon if I was offered one.” A person who was familiar with Mr. Cohen’s decision-making at the time said the moves might have been a cry for help, but Mr. Costello and others saw them as evidence that he had “chosen a different path,” as Mr. Costello wrote to Mr. Cohen in an email. “We will not be involved in that journey and therefore Jeff Citron asked me to let you know that he will be sending you a bill,” the email said. Within weeks, Mr. Giuliani, who had previously referred to Mr. Cohen as “an honest, honorable lawyer,” was instead casting him as a “pathological liar.” His bond with Mr. Trump all but broken, Mr. Cohen decided to cooperate with law enforcement officials. And so he traveled to Washington to meet on Aug. 7 with Mr. Mueller’s team for the first of many discussions. The next week, his lawyer, Mr. Petrillo, arranged to talk with prosecutors in Manhattan, interviews show. The prosecutors had been putting him off but suddenly agreed to meet a couple of days later, on Friday, an indication that criminal charges against Mr. Cohen were imminent. Mr. Petrillo asked for a deferred prosecution agreement relating to the hush money, a lighter punishment that might have spared Mr. Cohen from prison so long as he stayed out of trouble. That weekend the prosecutors signaled there would be no such deal, but they were willing to consider a guilty plea. Over the next day, Mr. Cohen and his wife huddled in Mr. Petrillo’s office debating their options. And throughout the day on Monday, his lawyers went back and forth with prosecutors over the details of the plea to campaign finance, banking and tax crimes. But that evening, Mr. Cohen was still unsure whether to plead guilty at all. He poured a glass of 12-year-old Glenlivet Scotch on the rocks and debated his future. Early on Tuesday, he was still having second thoughts, but ultimately stuck to the plan. Standing at the defense table, Mr. Cohen said he had worked with Mr. Trump to cover up two potential sex scandals, including the one involving Ms. Daniels. He confessed that he had arranged the hush money “in coordination with, and at the direction of, a candidate for federal office,” implicating the president publicly for the first time in a federal campaign finance crime. “Time and time again,” Mr. Cohen later told the judge at his sentencing, “I felt it was my duty to cover up his dirty deeds.” Matt Apuzzo contributed reporting.   Supported by The president, channeling his hero Andrew Jackson, continues to champion a particularly virulent form of reactionary white majoritarianism. By Jamelle Bouie Opinion Columnist On Saturday, after Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts formally announced her campaign to oust President Trump from the White House, he took aim at her on Twitter. “Today, Elizabeth Warren, sometimes referred to by me as Pocahontas, joined the race for President,” he said, making a strange, meta-textual reference to his previous tweets before launching into his usual mockery of Ms. Warren’s claims to Native heritage. “Will she run as our first Native American presidential candidate, or has she decided that after 32 years, this is not playing so well anymore? See you on the campaign TRAIL, Liz.” Most observers took “trail” as a deliberate reference to the “Trail of Tears,” the forced relocation throughout the 1830s of several southeastern Native American tribes from their ancestral lands to what would become northeastern Oklahoma. The strongest evidence for this reading is the reaction from supporters. One pro-Trump tweeter directly mentioned the “Native American genocide.” Trump’s oldest son shared similar comments, calling the jab “savage.” Lying behind all this is Trump’s fascination with Andrew Jackson. Jackson’s portrait hangs in the Oval Office. He seems to be a figure of admiration for a president who otherwise ignores history. “Inspirational visit, I have to tell you,” Trump said, when he visited Jackson’s mansion in Nashville. “I’m a fan.”  We don’t need further evidence of Trump’s cruelty or racism. But there are moments in his rhetorical flourishes when those qualities come into clear view. At those times it’s worth focusing on his comments, not as fodder for self-satisfied moral condemnation, but to have a better understanding of the ideas and pathologies he channels and brings to the surface of the national conversation. To that end, his expressions of anti-Native racism are worth a closer look. As an army general, Roxanne Dunbar-Ortiz writes in “An Indigenous Peoples’ History of the United States,” Jackson “led four wars of aggression” against Native tribes in Georgia and Florida. As president, he won passage of the 1830 Indian Removal Act and subsequently “engineered the expulsion of all Native peoples east of the Mississippi to the designated ‘Indian Territory,’” forcing some 70,000 people off their land. This isn’t the first time the president has made light of violence inflicted on Native peoples. “If Elizabeth Warren, often referred to by me as Pocahontas, did this commercial from Bighorn or Wounded Knee instead of her kitchen, with her husband dressed in full Indian garb, it would have been a smash!,” he said last month, attacking one of Warren’s videos on Instagram with another oddly self-referential tweet. It’s tempting to dismiss these comments as “Trump being Trump” — unworthy of additional attention or heightened scrutiny. But the substance of these particular references makes that calculus untenable. Wounded Knee Creek in South Dakota was, in December 1890, the site of one of the deadliest attacks on Native Americans by United States military forces. As many as 300 people were killed, in a massacre that continues to weigh on the memories of many American Indian communities. The Battle of Little Bighorn in 1876 was an attempted eviction of Native tribes in present-day Montana, led by Lt. Col. George Armstrong Custer. Outnumbered by Lakota and Cheyenne warriors, Custer and over 200 of his soldiers were killed in a battle that was memorialized as “Custer’s Last Stand.” The Trail of Tears began with white American settlers claiming Cherokee and other tribal lands as their own, federal officials coercing tribal leaders into ceding their territory and the United States Army removing the tribes by force. During the infamous forced march of Cherokee people in 1838, harsh winter weather and poor conditions in detention camps led to an estimated death toll of 4,000 people out of the 12,000 expelled from their homes. Other tribes suffered similar death rates in their forced deportations. When Trump jabs at Warren with “Pocahontas,” he’s using the name as an anti-Native caricature. But when he uses Wounded Knee or the Trail of Tears in his attacks, he’s grossly trivializing this nation’s history of genocidal violence against Native Americans, as if there aren’t still millions of indigenous people living in the United States facing continued discrimination and disadvantage. Like his attacks on prominent African-Americans or his xenophobic smears of Hispanic immigrants, the president’s jokes about these shameful moments in American history are both a performance of racial contempt and an atavistic expression of white supremacist ideology. It’s those comments — more so than his election night promise to represent “the forgotten man” — that forge whatever resemblance Trump has to Andrew Jackson. It was Jackson who first championed reactionary white majoritarianism, Jackson who shepherded this country toward a mass democracy so tied to chattel slavery, settler colonialism and white supremacy that we still struggle to disentangle ourselves from their legacies. Jackson, himself a frontier planter and slave owner, embodied these ideas as he carried them forward. The same is true for Trump, who similarly embodies the drive to preserve hierarchies of race, gender and national origin even as they degrade life for most Americans, including many who think they benefit from them. All of this gives additional meaning to the president’s much-invoked slogan. He will “make America great again” by reveling in its most shameful actions and miring it in its worst impulses. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Jamelle Bouie became a New York Times Opinion columnist in 2019. Before that he was the chief political correspondent for Slate magazine. He is based in Charlottesville, Va., and Washington.  @jbouie 

Supported by The president, channeling his hero Andrew Jackson, continues to champion a particularly virulent form of reactionary white majoritarianism. By Jamelle Bouie Opinion Columnist On Saturday, after Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts formally announced her campaign to oust President Trump from the White House, he took aim at her on Twitter. “Today, Elizabeth Warren, sometimes referred to by me as Pocahontas, joined the race for President,” he said, making a strange, meta-textual reference to his previous tweets before launching into his usual mockery of Ms. Warren’s claims to Native heritage. “Will she run as our first Native American presidential candidate, or has she decided that after 32 years, this is not playing so well anymore? See you on the campaign TRAIL, Liz.” Most observers took “trail” as a deliberate reference to the “Trail of Tears,” the forced relocation throughout the 1830s of several southeastern Native American tribes from their ancestral lands to what would become northeastern Oklahoma. The strongest evidence for this reading is the reaction from supporters. One pro-Trump tweeter directly mentioned the “Native American genocide.” Trump’s oldest son shared similar comments, calling the jab “savage.” Lying behind all this is Trump’s fascination with Andrew Jackson. Jackson’s portrait hangs in the Oval Office. He seems to be a figure of admiration for a president who otherwise ignores history. “Inspirational visit, I have to tell you,” Trump said, when he visited Jackson’s mansion in Nashville. “I’m a fan.”  We don’t need further evidence of Trump’s cruelty or racism. But there are moments in his rhetorical flourishes when those qualities come into clear view. At those times it’s worth focusing on his comments, not as fodder for self-satisfied moral condemnation, but to have a better understanding of the ideas and pathologies he channels and brings to the surface of the national conversation. To that end, his expressions of anti-Native racism are worth a closer look. As an army general, Roxanne Dunbar-Ortiz writes in “An Indigenous Peoples’ History of the United States,” Jackson “led four wars of aggression” against Native tribes in Georgia and Florida. As president, he won passage of the 1830 Indian Removal Act and subsequently “engineered the expulsion of all Native peoples east of the Mississippi to the designated ‘Indian Territory,’” forcing some 70,000 people off their land. This isn’t the first time the president has made light of violence inflicted on Native peoples. “If Elizabeth Warren, often referred to by me as Pocahontas, did this commercial from Bighorn or Wounded Knee instead of her kitchen, with her husband dressed in full Indian garb, it would have been a smash!,” he said last month, attacking one of Warren’s videos on Instagram with another oddly self-referential tweet. It’s tempting to dismiss these comments as “Trump being Trump” — unworthy of additional attention or heightened scrutiny. But the substance of these particular references makes that calculus untenable. Wounded Knee Creek in South Dakota was, in December 1890, the site of one of the deadliest attacks on Native Americans by United States military forces. As many as 300 people were killed, in a massacre that continues to weigh on the memories of many American Indian communities. The Battle of Little Bighorn in 1876 was an attempted eviction of Native tribes in present-day Montana, led by Lt. Col. George Armstrong Custer. Outnumbered by Lakota and Cheyenne warriors, Custer and over 200 of his soldiers were killed in a battle that was memorialized as “Custer’s Last Stand.” The Trail of Tears began with white American settlers claiming Cherokee and other tribal lands as their own, federal officials coercing tribal leaders into ceding their territory and the United States Army removing the tribes by force. During the infamous forced march of Cherokee people in 1838, harsh winter weather and poor conditions in detention camps led to an estimated death toll of 4,000 people out of the 12,000 expelled from their homes. Other tribes suffered similar death rates in their forced deportations. When Trump jabs at Warren with “Pocahontas,” he’s using the name as an anti-Native caricature. But when he uses Wounded Knee or the Trail of Tears in his attacks, he’s grossly trivializing this nation’s history of genocidal violence against Native Americans, as if there aren’t still millions of indigenous people living in the United States facing continued discrimination and disadvantage. Like his attacks on prominent African-Americans or his xenophobic smears of Hispanic immigrants, the president’s jokes about these shameful moments in American history are both a performance of racial contempt and an atavistic expression of white supremacist ideology. It’s those comments — more so than his election night promise to represent “the forgotten man” — that forge whatever resemblance Trump has to Andrew Jackson. It was Jackson who first championed reactionary white majoritarianism, Jackson who shepherded this country toward a mass democracy so tied to chattel slavery, settler colonialism and white supremacy that we still struggle to disentangle ourselves from their legacies. Jackson, himself a frontier planter and slave owner, embodied these ideas as he carried them forward. The same is true for Trump, who similarly embodies the drive to preserve hierarchies of race, gender and national origin even as they degrade life for most Americans, including many who think they benefit from them. All of this gives additional meaning to the president’s much-invoked slogan. He will “make America great again” by reveling in its most shameful actions and miring it in its worst impulses. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Jamelle Bouie became a New York Times Opinion columnist in 2019. Before that he was the chief political correspondent for Slate magazine. He is based in Charlottesville, Va., and Washington.  @jbouie Supported by The logic seems to go that everyone is better off, even minorities, when white people are calling the shots.  By Charles M. Blow Opinion Columnist Donald Trump’s lie-filled rage tweets about Puerto Rico this week over disaster aid continue a Trump pattern that mirrors a method that white supremacists have used throughout American history. Particularly present since Reconstruction, this method involves proclaiming that minorities lack the character and capacity to create effective government, and therefore minority-led jurisdictions are a hopeless drain on resources. He tweeted that Puerto Rico’s government “can’t do anything right” and that the island’s politicians are “incompetent or corrupt” and only “complain and ask for more money,” which they spend “foolishly or corruptly, & only take from USA.” He specifically called the mayor of San Juan “crazed and incompetent.” Point of fact: Puerto Rico is part of the United States. It is a territory. Its citizens are U.S. citizens. The structure of Trump’s comments leaves open the possibility that he doesn’t know that, or conversely, knows it but doesn’t fully accept it or care about it. If this were a one-off spat with politicians opposed to his conduct, one might reasonably write Trump’s comments off as politics as usual. Instead, this questioning of the competence of black and brown leaders is not anomaly but motif. Trump has spent nearly a decade now trying to paint Barack Obama as not only an illegitimate president, but also as an inept, lazy, embarrassing one. He has called him a “sick,” “weak,” “incompetent leader” with a “horrible attitude” who “looks and sounds so ridiculous,” “has disastrous judgment,” is “a total failure” and was “perhaps the worst president in the history of the United States!” Worse than the white supremacist Andrew Johnson, who did his best to obstruct Reconstruction, opposed the 14th Amendment and was impeached? Worse than Trump’s slave-owning hero Andrew Jackson, whose Indian Removal Act led to the Trail of Tears? Worse than slave-owning John Tyler, who during his time in Congress argued against the Missouri Compromise, which would restrain the spread of the “peculiar institution”? Worse than Millard Fillmore, who backed the protection of Southern slavery in the Compromise of 1850, which delayed Southern secession? Worse than Richard Nixon, who was forced from office? Worse than George W. Bush, who lied this country into the war in Iraq? Worse than Trump himself? Let’s submit that Trump has in some ways been an equal opportunity offender and gone after all his political opponents to some degree — he incessantly called Hillary Clinton “crooked” and Bernie Sanders “crazy.” Still, that doesn’t fully account for the particular consistency with which he attacks minority leaders and minority-led entities as inadequate, ineffective and incompetent. According to Trump, former Georgia gubernatorial candidate Stacey Abrams was “totally unqualified” and would “destroy” the state of Georgia. Abrams is a star, and the way that state’s election was handled will do more to destroy it than Abrams ever could. According to Trump, former Florida gubernatorial candidate Andrew Gillum was “a Dem who is a thief and who is Mayor of poorly run Tallahassee, said to be one of the most corrupt cities in the Country!” There is no evidence of theft by Gillum, and Tallahassee isn’t the most corrupt city. According to Trump, legendary Congressman John Lewis’s district “is in horrible shape and falling apart.” It is not. PolitiFact rated Trump’s claim “mostly false.” Even majority-black and majority-brown countries around the globe have been condemned and dismissed by Trump in this way. Haiti, El Salvador and African countries are “shithole countries.” Mexico has a “totally corrupt gov’t,” and it is sending “animals” and “rapists” across the border. Yet he has lobbed praise at strongmen — mostly in Europe and Asia — for being great leaders. Think Russia and North Korea. (Western nations have also piqued his anger when they have not been sufficiently ruthless with their minority populations. He said that Britain was “trying hard to disguise their massive Muslim problem,” and Germany “is going through massive attacks to its people by the migrants allowed to enter the country.” But Trump still maintains “a great feeling for Germany.” That feeling is apparently so great that he keeps lying that his father, Fred Trump, was born there, like he did again this week. Fred Trump was born in New York.) To me, this marking of minorities as incapable of good governance harkens back to the Reconstruction period, when white supremacists promoted racist caricatures of newly elected black legislators acting uncouth as a way to fuel an angry backlash. This shows up in newspaper illustrations and in the film “The Birth of a Nation,” in which black legislators — eating, drinking and some without shoes — are shown in a state of chaos. These white supremacists, many wealthy and powerful, used the threat of “black domination” to scare poorer whites into allegiance, warning them of race-mixing, miscegenation and the rape of white women and girls. They also warned about the crude attempt of black people to be civilized and judicious. This is very similar to what Trump tweeted this week, trying to pit suffering farmers in the Midwest against suffering Puerto Rican hurricane survivors. Trump tweeted that “Puerto Rico got 91 Billion Dollars for the hurricane, more money than has ever been gotten for a hurricane before.” That, of course, was just another lie. As The New York Times reported: In fact, FEMA and other agencies have so far distributed $11.2 billion in aid to Puerto Rico, according to the Office of Management and Budget. Some $41 billion in aid has been allocated, while $91 billion is the budget office’s estimate of how much the island could receive over the next two decades. The farmers are mostly old, white men. As Modern Farmer pointed out in 2014: More than 92 percent of the country’s 2.1 million farmers are non-Hispanic whites, and more than 86 percent of those farm operators are men. The average age of farmers, which has been rising for decades, continued to inch up. In 2012, the average farmer was 58.3 years old, up from 57.1 years in 2007. Puerto Rico is 99 percent Hispanic. Trump made his point clear: The mismanagement and incompetence of these brown people amount to stealing resources from these white people. As he tweeted: “Cannot continue to hurt our Farmers and States with these massive payments, and so little appreciation!” The brown people were supposed to be thankful that white daddy in “the States” was helping them at all. As Trump tweeted, “The best thing that ever happened to Puerto Rico is President Donald J. Trump.” This is the kind of paternalistic white supremacy that doesn’t even require open hostility, although plenty often accompanies it. The logic goes this way: Everyone is better off, even minorities, when white people are in charge and calling the shots. This is part of what drew so many white voters to Trump, whether they admit it or not: He promised to destroy, erase or replace everything President Obama had done, thereby fixing the glitch in the narrative that the only true and good leaders of America were white leaders. In the white supremacist imagination, even this horrendous white leader is better than the most educated, articulate and erudite black man. That logic also says to people like the Puerto Ricans that even in their suffering, minorities are better off being part of this country. This reminds me of a letter Robert E. Lee wrote to his wife in 1856 in which he said: “The blacks are immeasurably better off here than in Africa, morally, socially & physically. The painful discipline they are undergoing, is necessary for their instruction as a race, and I hope will prepare and lead them to better things. How long their subjugation may be necessary is known and ordered by a wise Merciful Providence.” For all minorities in America, the subjugation continues, particularly now that Trump wants to dictate who is worthy of assistance and who should be allowed to suffer. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and Instagram.  Charles Blow joined The Times in 1994 and became an Opinion columnist in 2008. He is also a television commentator and writes often about politics, social justice and vulnerable communities.  @CharlesMBlow • Facebook 

Supported by The logic seems to go that everyone is better off, even minorities, when white people are calling the shots.  By Charles M. Blow Opinion Columnist Donald Trump’s lie-filled rage tweets about Puerto Rico this week over disaster aid continue a Trump pattern that mirrors a method that white supremacists have used throughout American history. Particularly present since Reconstruction, this method involves proclaiming that minorities lack the character and capacity to create effective government, and therefore minority-led jurisdictions are a hopeless drain on resources. He tweeted that Puerto Rico’s government “can’t do anything right” and that the island’s politicians are “incompetent or corrupt” and only “complain and ask for more money,” which they spend “foolishly or corruptly, & only take from USA.” He specifically called the mayor of San Juan “crazed and incompetent.” Point of fact: Puerto Rico is part of the United States. It is a territory. Its citizens are U.S. citizens. The structure of Trump’s comments leaves open the possibility that he doesn’t know that, or conversely, knows it but doesn’t fully accept it or care about it. If this were a one-off spat with politicians opposed to his conduct, one might reasonably write Trump’s comments off as politics as usual. Instead, this questioning of the competence of black and brown leaders is not anomaly but motif. Trump has spent nearly a decade now trying to paint Barack Obama as not only an illegitimate president, but also as an inept, lazy, embarrassing one. He has called him a “sick,” “weak,” “incompetent leader” with a “horrible attitude” who “looks and sounds so ridiculous,” “has disastrous judgment,” is “a total failure” and was “perhaps the worst president in the history of the United States!” Worse than the white supremacist Andrew Johnson, who did his best to obstruct Reconstruction, opposed the 14th Amendment and was impeached? Worse than Trump’s slave-owning hero Andrew Jackson, whose Indian Removal Act led to the Trail of Tears? Worse than slave-owning John Tyler, who during his time in Congress argued against the Missouri Compromise, which would restrain the spread of the “peculiar institution”? Worse than Millard Fillmore, who backed the protection of Southern slavery in the Compromise of 1850, which delayed Southern secession? Worse than Richard Nixon, who was forced from office? Worse than George W. Bush, who lied this country into the war in Iraq? Worse than Trump himself? Let’s submit that Trump has in some ways been an equal opportunity offender and gone after all his political opponents to some degree — he incessantly called Hillary Clinton “crooked” and Bernie Sanders “crazy.” Still, that doesn’t fully account for the particular consistency with which he attacks minority leaders and minority-led entities as inadequate, ineffective and incompetent. According to Trump, former Georgia gubernatorial candidate Stacey Abrams was “totally unqualified” and would “destroy” the state of Georgia. Abrams is a star, and the way that state’s election was handled will do more to destroy it than Abrams ever could. According to Trump, former Florida gubernatorial candidate Andrew Gillum was “a Dem who is a thief and who is Mayor of poorly run Tallahassee, said to be one of the most corrupt cities in the Country!” There is no evidence of theft by Gillum, and Tallahassee isn’t the most corrupt city. According to Trump, legendary Congressman John Lewis’s district “is in horrible shape and falling apart.” It is not. PolitiFact rated Trump’s claim “mostly false.” Even majority-black and majority-brown countries around the globe have been condemned and dismissed by Trump in this way. Haiti, El Salvador and African countries are “shithole countries.” Mexico has a “totally corrupt gov’t,” and it is sending “animals” and “rapists” across the border. Yet he has lobbed praise at strongmen — mostly in Europe and Asia — for being great leaders. Think Russia and North Korea. (Western nations have also piqued his anger when they have not been sufficiently ruthless with their minority populations. He said that Britain was “trying hard to disguise their massive Muslim problem,” and Germany “is going through massive attacks to its people by the migrants allowed to enter the country.” But Trump still maintains “a great feeling for Germany.” That feeling is apparently so great that he keeps lying that his father, Fred Trump, was born there, like he did again this week. Fred Trump was born in New York.) To me, this marking of minorities as incapable of good governance harkens back to the Reconstruction period, when white supremacists promoted racist caricatures of newly elected black legislators acting uncouth as a way to fuel an angry backlash. This shows up in newspaper illustrations and in the film “The Birth of a Nation,” in which black legislators — eating, drinking and some without shoes — are shown in a state of chaos. These white supremacists, many wealthy and powerful, used the threat of “black domination” to scare poorer whites into allegiance, warning them of race-mixing, miscegenation and the rape of white women and girls. They also warned about the crude attempt of black people to be civilized and judicious. This is very similar to what Trump tweeted this week, trying to pit suffering farmers in the Midwest against suffering Puerto Rican hurricane survivors. Trump tweeted that “Puerto Rico got 91 Billion Dollars for the hurricane, more money than has ever been gotten for a hurricane before.” That, of course, was just another lie. As The New York Times reported: In fact, FEMA and other agencies have so far distributed $11.2 billion in aid to Puerto Rico, according to the Office of Management and Budget. Some $41 billion in aid has been allocated, while $91 billion is the budget office’s estimate of how much the island could receive over the next two decades. The farmers are mostly old, white men. As Modern Farmer pointed out in 2014: More than 92 percent of the country’s 2.1 million farmers are non-Hispanic whites, and more than 86 percent of those farm operators are men. The average age of farmers, which has been rising for decades, continued to inch up. In 2012, the average farmer was 58.3 years old, up from 57.1 years in 2007. Puerto Rico is 99 percent Hispanic. Trump made his point clear: The mismanagement and incompetence of these brown people amount to stealing resources from these white people. As he tweeted: “Cannot continue to hurt our Farmers and States with these massive payments, and so little appreciation!” The brown people were supposed to be thankful that white daddy in “the States” was helping them at all. As Trump tweeted, “The best thing that ever happened to Puerto Rico is President Donald J. Trump.” This is the kind of paternalistic white supremacy that doesn’t even require open hostility, although plenty often accompanies it. The logic goes this way: Everyone is better off, even minorities, when white people are in charge and calling the shots. This is part of what drew so many white voters to Trump, whether they admit it or not: He promised to destroy, erase or replace everything President Obama had done, thereby fixing the glitch in the narrative that the only true and good leaders of America were white leaders. In the white supremacist imagination, even this horrendous white leader is better than the most educated, articulate and erudite black man. That logic also says to people like the Puerto Ricans that even in their suffering, minorities are better off being part of this country. This reminds me of a letter Robert E. Lee wrote to his wife in 1856 in which he said: “The blacks are immeasurably better off here than in Africa, morally, socially & physically. The painful discipline they are undergoing, is necessary for their instruction as a race, and I hope will prepare and lead them to better things. How long their subjugation may be necessary is known and ordered by a wise Merciful Providence.” For all minorities in America, the subjugation continues, particularly now that Trump wants to dictate who is worthy of assistance and who should be allowed to suffer. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and Instagram.  Charles Blow joined The Times in 1994 and became an Opinion columnist in 2008. He is also a television commentator and writes often about politics, social justice and vulnerable communities.  @CharlesMBlow • Facebook Supported by There’s been a surge of migrant families at the southern border. The answer is not to close the border and cut off aid to Central American nations. By The Editorial Board The editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section. By threatening to close the border with Mexico and moving to cut off aid to El Salvador, Honduras and Guatemala — the so-called Northern Triangle countries, from which many migrants headed to the United States are coming — President Trump is effectively shooting America in the foot, to paraphrase one expert. Kevin McAleenan, the commissioner of United States Customs and Border Protection, noted last week that the near-record number of migrant families with children seeking asylum both at and in between official ports of entry on the southern border was stretching his agency to a “breaking point.”  This was made startlingly clear as photos of hundreds of migrants, including many small children, confined behind razor wire in a makeshift enclosure beneath a bridge in El Paso, spread quickly across the internet. The agency has since closed the holding area. C.B.P. and Immigration and Customs Enforcement, both of which operate under the Department of Homeland Security, have taken steps to grapple with the increased flow of migrants, a vast majority of them families with children seeking asylum. The agencies have diverted resources and personnel to process and care for the migrants, even agreeing to release some families to American cities far from the border. “We are doing everything we can to simply avoid a tragedy in a C.B.P. facility,” Mr. McAleenan said. “But with these numbers, with the types of illnesses we’re seeing at the border, I fear that it’s just a matter of time.” In an attempt to ease the problem, Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, signed a compact with officials from the Northern Triangle last week to help curb the complex drivers of irregular migration — including crime and gang violence in the region. Mr. Trump, less than a day later, announced he was ending aid to those countries.  Nonsensically, Mr. Trump has insisted that the real problem is Mexico, which he suggested is doing “nothing” to help stop the tide of migrants. That’s despite the efforts by Mexican leaders to intercept migrant groups, providing temporary visas to asylum seekers and allowing some making the trek north to remain in Mexico while they await court hearings in the United States. As with the president’s wall, which would do little to discourage unauthorized migration, let alone illegal drug trafficking, no one with a working knowledge of immigration policy believes that closing the border is a solution to the recent surge. The economic disruption for border communities and the impact on trade would be disastrous. Plus, closing the border won’t stop migrants from stepping onto United States soil and claiming asylum, as many of the groups surrendering to border agents in recent months have done in between ports of entry. What would help much more is action to address the root causes of the surge in border crossings, from reforming federal immigration laws to aid to improve economic conditions in Central America. And most urgently, Congress needs to come up with a more nimble legal framework to address the glut of asylum claims and more funding for log-jammed immigration courts to process them.  This moment calls for proactive measures — not incendiary policies that are destined to backfire. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported by There’s been a surge of migrant families at the southern border. The answer is not to close the border and cut off aid to Central American nations. By The Editorial Board The editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section. By threatening to close the border with Mexico and moving to cut off aid to El Salvador, Honduras and Guatemala — the so-called Northern Triangle countries, from which many migrants headed to the United States are coming — President Trump is effectively shooting America in the foot, to paraphrase one expert. Kevin McAleenan, the commissioner of United States Customs and Border Protection, noted last week that the near-record number of migrant families with children seeking asylum both at and in between official ports of entry on the southern border was stretching his agency to a “breaking point.”  This was made startlingly clear as photos of hundreds of migrants, including many small children, confined behind razor wire in a makeshift enclosure beneath a bridge in El Paso, spread quickly across the internet. The agency has since closed the holding area. C.B.P. and Immigration and Customs Enforcement, both of which operate under the Department of Homeland Security, have taken steps to grapple with the increased flow of migrants, a vast majority of them families with children seeking asylum. The agencies have diverted resources and personnel to process and care for the migrants, even agreeing to release some families to American cities far from the border. “We are doing everything we can to simply avoid a tragedy in a C.B.P. facility,” Mr. McAleenan said. “But with these numbers, with the types of illnesses we’re seeing at the border, I fear that it’s just a matter of time.” In an attempt to ease the problem, Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, signed a compact with officials from the Northern Triangle last week to help curb the complex drivers of irregular migration — including crime and gang violence in the region. Mr. Trump, less than a day later, announced he was ending aid to those countries.  Nonsensically, Mr. Trump has insisted that the real problem is Mexico, which he suggested is doing “nothing” to help stop the tide of migrants. That’s despite the efforts by Mexican leaders to intercept migrant groups, providing temporary visas to asylum seekers and allowing some making the trek north to remain in Mexico while they await court hearings in the United States. As with the president’s wall, which would do little to discourage unauthorized migration, let alone illegal drug trafficking, no one with a working knowledge of immigration policy believes that closing the border is a solution to the recent surge. The economic disruption for border communities and the impact on trade would be disastrous. Plus, closing the border won’t stop migrants from stepping onto United States soil and claiming asylum, as many of the groups surrendering to border agents in recent months have done in between ports of entry. What would help much more is action to address the root causes of the surge in border crossings, from reforming federal immigration laws to aid to improve economic conditions in Central America. And most urgently, Congress needs to come up with a more nimble legal framework to address the glut of asylum claims and more funding for log-jammed immigration courts to process them.  This moment calls for proactive measures — not incendiary policies that are destined to backfire. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Supported by By William K. Rashbaum and Danny Hakim [What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.] The New York attorney general’s office late on Monday issued subpoenas to Deutsche Bank and Investors Bank for records relating to the financing of four major Trump Organization projects and a failed effort to buy the Buffalo Bills of the National Football League in 2014, according to a person briefed on the subpoenas. The inquiry opens a new front in the scrutiny of Deutsche Bank, one of the few lenders willing to do business with Donald J. Trump in recent years. The bank is already the subject of two congressional investigations and was examined last year by New York banking regulators, who took no action. The new inquiry, by the office of the attorney general, Letitia James, was prompted by the congressional testimony last month of Michael D. Cohen, President Trump’s former lawyer and fixer, the person briefed on the subpoenas said. Mr. Cohen testified under oath that Mr. Trump had inflated his assets in financial statements, and Mr. Cohen provided copies of statements he said had been submitted to Deutsche Bank. The inquiry by Ms. James’s office is a civil investigation, not a criminal one, although its focus and scope were unclear. The attorney general has broad authority under state law to investigate fraud and can fine — or in extreme cases, go to court to try to dissolve — a business that is found to have engaged in repeated illegality. The request to Deutsche Bank sought loan applications, mortgages, lines of credit and other financing transactions in connection with the Trump International Hotel in Washington; the Trump National Doral outside Miami; and the Trump International Hotel and Tower in Chicago, the person said. Investigators also requested records connected to an unsuccessful effort to buy the Bills, the person said. Mr. Trump gave Deutsche Bank bare-bones personal financial statements in 2014 when he planned to make a bid for the team, The New York Times has reported. The deal fell through when the team was sold to a rival bidder for $1.4 billion. Mr. Trump worked with a small United States-based unit of Deutsche Bank that serves ultra-wealthy people. The unit lent Mr. Trump more than $100 million in 2012 to pay for the Doral golf resort and $170 million in 2015 to transform the Old Post Office Building in Washington into a luxury hotel. New Jersey-based Investors Bank was subpoenaed for records relating to Trump Park Avenue, a project it had backed. A spokeswoman for Deutsche Bank said on Tuesday that it had received the subpoena. Investors Bank declined to comment. The Trump Organization did not respond to requests for comment. The subpoenas are a culmination of months of threats from Ms. James that she would aggressively investigate Mr. Trump. In August, referring to the investigation by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, into Russian interference in the 2016 election, she said “the president of the United States has to worry about three things: Mueller, Cohen, and Tish James.” In her victory speech on the night she was elected in November, she said, “I will be shining a bright light into every dark corner of his real estate dealings, and every dealing, demanding truthfulness at every turn.” The next month, before taking office, she told NBC that “we will use every area of the law to investigate President Trump and his business transactions and that of his family.” Mr. Trump has a rich recent history of grievances against the New York attorney general’s office. Before former Attorney General Eric T. Schneiderman resigned amid allegations of assault and abuse against women, he pursued cases against the Trump Foundation and Trump University. Mr. Trump has referred to him as “sleazebag AG Eric Schneiderman” and “Shady Eric.” He also assailed Mr. Schneiderman’s temporary successor, Barbara D. Underwood, and has referred to Ms. James as “yet another AG” who “openly campaigned on a GET TRUMP agenda.” “Will never be treated fairly by these people — a total double standard of ‘justice,’” he added on Twitter. In Congress, the House Intelligence Committee has been exploring real estate transactions related to Russia and other foreign interests, including Deutsche Bank loans to the Trump Organization. Follow William Rashbaum on Twitter at @WRashbaum; follow Danny Hakim on Twitter at @dannyhakim. Jesse Drucker contributed reporting.   OpinionJed Handelsman Shugerman

Supported by By William K. Rashbaum and Danny Hakim [What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.] The New York attorney general’s office late on Monday issued subpoenas to Deutsche Bank and Investors Bank for records relating to the financing of four major Trump Organization projects and a failed effort to buy the Buffalo Bills of the National Football League in 2014, according to a person briefed on the subpoenas. The inquiry opens a new front in the scrutiny of Deutsche Bank, one of the few lenders willing to do business with Donald J. Trump in recent years. The bank is already the subject of two congressional investigations and was examined last year by New York banking regulators, who took no action. The new inquiry, by the office of the attorney general, Letitia James, was prompted by the congressional testimony last month of Michael D. Cohen, President Trump’s former lawyer and fixer, the person briefed on the subpoenas said. Mr. Cohen testified under oath that Mr. Trump had inflated his assets in financial statements, and Mr. Cohen provided copies of statements he said had been submitted to Deutsche Bank. The inquiry by Ms. James’s office is a civil investigation, not a criminal one, although its focus and scope were unclear. The attorney general has broad authority under state law to investigate fraud and can fine — or in extreme cases, go to court to try to dissolve — a business that is found to have engaged in repeated illegality. The request to Deutsche Bank sought loan applications, mortgages, lines of credit and other financing transactions in connection with the Trump International Hotel in Washington; the Trump National Doral outside Miami; and the Trump International Hotel and Tower in Chicago, the person said. Investigators also requested records connected to an unsuccessful effort to buy the Bills, the person said. Mr. Trump gave Deutsche Bank bare-bones personal financial statements in 2014 when he planned to make a bid for the team, The New York Times has reported. The deal fell through when the team was sold to a rival bidder for $1.4 billion. Mr. Trump worked with a small United States-based unit of Deutsche Bank that serves ultra-wealthy people. The unit lent Mr. Trump more than $100 million in 2012 to pay for the Doral golf resort and $170 million in 2015 to transform the Old Post Office Building in Washington into a luxury hotel. New Jersey-based Investors Bank was subpoenaed for records relating to Trump Park Avenue, a project it had backed. A spokeswoman for Deutsche Bank said on Tuesday that it had received the subpoena. Investors Bank declined to comment. The Trump Organization did not respond to requests for comment. The subpoenas are a culmination of months of threats from Ms. James that she would aggressively investigate Mr. Trump. In August, referring to the investigation by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, into Russian interference in the 2016 election, she said “the president of the United States has to worry about three things: Mueller, Cohen, and Tish James.” In her victory speech on the night she was elected in November, she said, “I will be shining a bright light into every dark corner of his real estate dealings, and every dealing, demanding truthfulness at every turn.” The next month, before taking office, she told NBC that “we will use every area of the law to investigate President Trump and his business transactions and that of his family.” Mr. Trump has a rich recent history of grievances against the New York attorney general’s office. Before former Attorney General Eric T. Schneiderman resigned amid allegations of assault and abuse against women, he pursued cases against the Trump Foundation and Trump University. Mr. Trump has referred to him as “sleazebag AG Eric Schneiderman” and “Shady Eric.” He also assailed Mr. Schneiderman’s temporary successor, Barbara D. Underwood, and has referred to Ms. James as “yet another AG” who “openly campaigned on a GET TRUMP agenda.” “Will never be treated fairly by these people — a total double standard of ‘justice,’” he added on Twitter. In Congress, the House Intelligence Committee has been exploring real estate transactions related to Russia and other foreign interests, including Deutsche Bank loans to the Trump Organization. Follow William Rashbaum on Twitter at @WRashbaum; follow Danny Hakim on Twitter at @dannyhakim. Jesse Drucker contributed reporting.   OpinionJed Handelsman ShugermanSupported by Recent data — and interviews with a dozen teenagers on the front lines of politics — show a decided leftward lean.  By Emily Badger and Claire Cain Miller Jaden Rams used to be on fire for Donald Trump. Shortly before the 2016 presidential election, when he was 13, he put on a red MAGA hat and matching tie and yelled his support at a rally in his hometown, Grand Junction, Colo. “I was getting politically charged around that time,” he said. “I was pretty passionate about a lot of the causes he was advocating for.” Today he calls the presidential campaign and its aftermath “a travesty for American unity.” He believes President Trump has fulfilled his campaign promises, but added that “I don’t feel largely those have been positive.” Two years closer to voting age, he now leans left, and said he would register as an independent. These are critical years for the voters of tomorrow. Political science research shows that a generation of voters is shaped for life by what happens during the teenage years and early 20s: whether the country is at war, how the economy is doing, whether the president is popular. Evidence in the Trump era so far shows young people coming of age now are tilting left.  Election data suggests that the youngest voters are supporting Democrats, and surveys of teenagers not yet old enough to vote reveal them to be anxious about the current state of the country and likely to embrace liberal views. Over all, 59 percent of people 18 to 24 say they’re Democrats, compared with 33 percent who say they’re Republicans, according to an Upshot analysis of Pew Research Center data over the last year. Even young people who self-identify as Republicans, another Pew survey found, say they hold more liberal views than older Republicans on a wide range of issues — including race relations, the causes of climate change and the involvement of government in people's lives. The youngest Republican voters who supported Mitt Romney in 2012 were the most likely to abandon Mr. Trump in 2016.  The youngest white voters are more evenly split between parties. About half of whites ages 18 to 24 say they’re Republicans. They favored Mr. Trump in the presidential election, but those who turned out in the midterm elections very narrowly backed Democrats, according to preliminary data from Catalist, a Democratic data firm. And only 39 percent of 18-to-24-year-old whites approve of Mr. Trump’s job performance, the Pew data shows.  Also, this next generation (those born after the mid-1990s, the so-called Generation Z) will be the first in which nearly half of the electorate is nonwhite — a group that overwhelmingly votes Democratic.  “Republicans are in trouble,” said Kristen Soltis Anderson, a Republican pollster who has written a book on millennial voters. Election results show millennials holding onto their Democratic views as they age, she said. “It would not surprise me if the problem is worse, not better, with Gen Z, given the moment we’re in.” As these young people age, it could take years before their influence is felt in the electorate, political scientists say, given that older voters turn out at much higher rates. And young Americans who connect to Mr. Trump could retain lasting ties to his party. It’s also possible that this generation will be exposed to very different influences — like an unpopular Democratic president, or an economic downturn — in just a few years.  To find out what kinds of voters they are or might become, we interviewed young people who had been on the front lines of politics over the last three years, at campaign rallies and political protests. Some, like Mr. Rams, have shifted their beliefs; others have deepened their loyalties. “I believe that we are very blessed to be growing up and living in a country that promotes free speech and the right to bear arms and that we have a Constitution that is for the people,” said Ricky Vincent, 15, a fire department volunteer who said he felt surrounded by others who shared those values when he attended a Trump rally in Michigan last year. Young people are receiving conflicting signals about the health of the country. Their formative years have been marked by both economic expansion and political discord. American teenagers are more stressed than adults about issues like mass shootings and the separation and deportation of immigrants, polling shows. They are coming of age at a time of relative peace, but their president speaks often of national crisis, and Congress agrees on little.  “We’re in one of the best times in history to be alive, but this divisive politics makes it feel like the world’s ending every day,” said Walker Haber, 15, a Trump supporter from Sioux Falls, S.D., who said his views were shaped by church and a wide variety of media, “from Vox to Fox.”  Mr. Rams’s political evolution happened on the high school debate team. “I got to be exposed to a lot of different points of view about how policy impacts people and what each side truly stands for, and that shifted me,” said Mr. Rams, now 16, who hopes to run for office someday. (His father, Ronald Rams, still a Trump supporter, said he and his son agree on a lot: “Jaden’s his own man. He’s smart enough to make his own decisions and I’m not going to force him to do anything because he’d probably do the opposite anyway.”)  Others spoke about adults in their communities furloughed by the government shutdown, or their fears that politicians weren’t responding to school shootings. Some said they believed the president did not have their interests in mind.  “I look at him, and it makes me sad that this is the leader that America has chosen to run this country,” said Alemitu Caldart, a 16-year-old from Shorewood, Wis., who said she had followed her mother’s example in activism. “I don’t think he’s a voice for all people.” Conventional wisdom suggests that people hold more liberal views when they’re young and age into conservatism. But history doesn’t back that up. The generation that came of age during the New Deal remained reliably Democratic as it aged; the generation that grew up with the Reagan Revolution has consistently tilted Republican. There has been quite a bit of vote switching in recent years, with white voters holding a college degree moving to the Democrats, and those without to the G.O.P. But Andrew Gelman, a professor of statistics and political science at Columbia, and Yair Ghitza, the chief scientist at Catalist, have found that impressions about events from ages 14 to 24 are about three times as powerful in shaping political beliefs as events that happen when people are 40.  That history suggests that President Trump’s low approval rating does not bode well for the Republican Party with young people who’ve been exposed to little else, Mr. Gelman said. But he cautioned that the Democratic brand isn’t particularly popular today either. The pattern he and Mr. Ghitza detected is also clearest for white voters. African-Americans have voted overwhelmingly for the Democratic Party regardless of their generation. Latinos and Asian-Americans are more likely to grow up with immigrant parents raised outside the American party system. But young Asian-Americans and Latinos are already tilting left, and future generations will probably show the same imprints from their formative years, said Janelle Wong, a professor of American studies at the University of Maryland. People learn politics from their parents, but they are also shaped by external events. Caiden Fratangelo, 26, grew up in a Republican, blue-collar, union family in Pittsburgh that debated politics at the dinner table. He first registered to vote as a Republican. But he changed parties around the time he came out as transgender and got into LGBTQ rights activism. “Being queer and moving away from Pittsburgh for several years and meeting people from different walks of life, your life experiences definitely shape your views on politics,” said Mr. Fratangelo, who was a field director for Hillary Clinton’s campaign and now works in constituent relations for a state senator. Young people are not likely to forget the activism they’re learning now, said Ella Robinson, a 16-year-old in Silver Spring, Md. The Trump era has taught her and her fellow students political savvy, she said, as their spontaneous school walkouts have been replaced by organized protests, with permits and tailored messages around issues like gun control and climate change.  “People in my generation are very aware that walkouts can only go so far,” Ms. Robinson said. “Voting needs to happen.” Susan Beachy and Nate Cohn contributed research, and Stephen Reiss contributed photo production.  Claire Cain Miller writes about gender, families and the future of work for The Upshot. She joined The Times in 2008 and was part of a team that won a Pulitzer Prize in 2018 for public service for reporting on workplace sexual harassment issues.  @clairecm • Facebook  Emily Badger writes about cities and urban policy for The Upshot from the Washington bureau. She's particularly interested in housing, transportation and inequality — and how they're all connected. She joined The Times in 2016 from The Washington Post.  @emilymbadger 

Supported by Recent data — and interviews with a dozen teenagers on the front lines of politics — show a decided leftward lean.  By Emily Badger and Claire Cain Miller Jaden Rams used to be on fire for Donald Trump. Shortly before the 2016 presidential election, when he was 13, he put on a red MAGA hat and matching tie and yelled his support at a rally in his hometown, Grand Junction, Colo. “I was getting politically charged around that time,” he said. “I was pretty passionate about a lot of the causes he was advocating for.” Today he calls the presidential campaign and its aftermath “a travesty for American unity.” He believes President Trump has fulfilled his campaign promises, but added that “I don’t feel largely those have been positive.” Two years closer to voting age, he now leans left, and said he would register as an independent. These are critical years for the voters of tomorrow. Political science research shows that a generation of voters is shaped for life by what happens during the teenage years and early 20s: whether the country is at war, how the economy is doing, whether the president is popular. Evidence in the Trump era so far shows young people coming of age now are tilting left.  Election data suggests that the youngest voters are supporting Democrats, and surveys of teenagers not yet old enough to vote reveal them to be anxious about the current state of the country and likely to embrace liberal views. Over all, 59 percent of people 18 to 24 say they’re Democrats, compared with 33 percent who say they’re Republicans, according to an Upshot analysis of Pew Research Center data over the last year. Even young people who self-identify as Republicans, another Pew survey found, say they hold more liberal views than older Republicans on a wide range of issues — including race relations, the causes of climate change and the involvement of government in people's lives. The youngest Republican voters who supported Mitt Romney in 2012 were the most likely to abandon Mr. Trump in 2016.  The youngest white voters are more evenly split between parties. About half of whites ages 18 to 24 say they’re Republicans. They favored Mr. Trump in the presidential election, but those who turned out in the midterm elections very narrowly backed Democrats, according to preliminary data from Catalist, a Democratic data firm. And only 39 percent of 18-to-24-year-old whites approve of Mr. Trump’s job performance, the Pew data shows.  Also, this next generation (those born after the mid-1990s, the so-called Generation Z) will be the first in which nearly half of the electorate is nonwhite — a group that overwhelmingly votes Democratic.  “Republicans are in trouble,” said Kristen Soltis Anderson, a Republican pollster who has written a book on millennial voters. Election results show millennials holding onto their Democratic views as they age, she said. “It would not surprise me if the problem is worse, not better, with Gen Z, given the moment we’re in.” As these young people age, it could take years before their influence is felt in the electorate, political scientists say, given that older voters turn out at much higher rates. And young Americans who connect to Mr. Trump could retain lasting ties to his party. It’s also possible that this generation will be exposed to very different influences — like an unpopular Democratic president, or an economic downturn — in just a few years.  To find out what kinds of voters they are or might become, we interviewed young people who had been on the front lines of politics over the last three years, at campaign rallies and political protests. Some, like Mr. Rams, have shifted their beliefs; others have deepened their loyalties. “I believe that we are very blessed to be growing up and living in a country that promotes free speech and the right to bear arms and that we have a Constitution that is for the people,” said Ricky Vincent, 15, a fire department volunteer who said he felt surrounded by others who shared those values when he attended a Trump rally in Michigan last year. Young people are receiving conflicting signals about the health of the country. Their formative years have been marked by both economic expansion and political discord. American teenagers are more stressed than adults about issues like mass shootings and the separation and deportation of immigrants, polling shows. They are coming of age at a time of relative peace, but their president speaks often of national crisis, and Congress agrees on little.  “We’re in one of the best times in history to be alive, but this divisive politics makes it feel like the world’s ending every day,” said Walker Haber, 15, a Trump supporter from Sioux Falls, S.D., who said his views were shaped by church and a wide variety of media, “from Vox to Fox.”  Mr. Rams’s political evolution happened on the high school debate team. “I got to be exposed to a lot of different points of view about how policy impacts people and what each side truly stands for, and that shifted me,” said Mr. Rams, now 16, who hopes to run for office someday. (His father, Ronald Rams, still a Trump supporter, said he and his son agree on a lot: “Jaden’s his own man. He’s smart enough to make his own decisions and I’m not going to force him to do anything because he’d probably do the opposite anyway.”)  Others spoke about adults in their communities furloughed by the government shutdown, or their fears that politicians weren’t responding to school shootings. Some said they believed the president did not have their interests in mind.  “I look at him, and it makes me sad that this is the leader that America has chosen to run this country,” said Alemitu Caldart, a 16-year-old from Shorewood, Wis., who said she had followed her mother’s example in activism. “I don’t think he’s a voice for all people.” Conventional wisdom suggests that people hold more liberal views when they’re young and age into conservatism. But history doesn’t back that up. The generation that came of age during the New Deal remained reliably Democratic as it aged; the generation that grew up with the Reagan Revolution has consistently tilted Republican. There has been quite a bit of vote switching in recent years, with white voters holding a college degree moving to the Democrats, and those without to the G.O.P. But Andrew Gelman, a professor of statistics and political science at Columbia, and Yair Ghitza, the chief scientist at Catalist, have found that impressions about events from ages 14 to 24 are about three times as powerful in shaping political beliefs as events that happen when people are 40.  That history suggests that President Trump’s low approval rating does not bode well for the Republican Party with young people who’ve been exposed to little else, Mr. Gelman said. But he cautioned that the Democratic brand isn’t particularly popular today either. The pattern he and Mr. Ghitza detected is also clearest for white voters. African-Americans have voted overwhelmingly for the Democratic Party regardless of their generation. Latinos and Asian-Americans are more likely to grow up with immigrant parents raised outside the American party system. But young Asian-Americans and Latinos are already tilting left, and future generations will probably show the same imprints from their formative years, said Janelle Wong, a professor of American studies at the University of Maryland. People learn politics from their parents, but they are also shaped by external events. Caiden Fratangelo, 26, grew up in a Republican, blue-collar, union family in Pittsburgh that debated politics at the dinner table. He first registered to vote as a Republican. But he changed parties around the time he came out as transgender and got into LGBTQ rights activism. “Being queer and moving away from Pittsburgh for several years and meeting people from different walks of life, your life experiences definitely shape your views on politics,” said Mr. Fratangelo, who was a field director for Hillary Clinton’s campaign and now works in constituent relations for a state senator. Young people are not likely to forget the activism they’re learning now, said Ella Robinson, a 16-year-old in Silver Spring, Md. The Trump era has taught her and her fellow students political savvy, she said, as their spontaneous school walkouts have been replaced by organized protests, with permits and tailored messages around issues like gun control and climate change.  “People in my generation are very aware that walkouts can only go so far,” Ms. Robinson said. “Voting needs to happen.” Susan Beachy and Nate Cohn contributed research, and Stephen Reiss contributed photo production.  Claire Cain Miller writes about gender, families and the future of work for The Upshot. She joined The Times in 2008 and was part of a team that won a Pulitzer Prize in 2018 for public service for reporting on workplace sexual harassment issues.  @clairecm • Facebook  Emily Badger writes about cities and urban policy for The Upshot from the Washington bureau. She's particularly interested in housing, transportation and inequality — and how they're all connected. She joined The Times in 2016 from The Washington Post.  @emilymbadger 