Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — U.S. Attorney General William Barr told lawmakers on Tuesday that he intends to release "within a week" a redacted version of the long-awaited report on Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election from Special Counsel Robert Mueller. During a congressional hearing, Barr was repeatedly challenged by Democrats who raised suspicions that he may have misrepresented Mueller's report to paint the Republican president in a better light. Barr, an appointee of Trump who last month announced what he said were the main findings of the report, said he would be as open as possible about redactions of sensitive information when he hands over the full document. "Within a week I will be in position to release that report to the public and then I will engage with the chairmen of both judiciary committees about that report, about any further requests that they have," Barr said at his first appearance before Congress since receiving the report on March 22. "I don't intend at this stage to send the full unredacted report to the committee," Barr told a House of Representatives Appropriations subcommittee. "I am relying on my own discretion to make as much public as I can." Tuesday's hearing came a little more than two weeks after Mueller wrapped up a 22-month-long probe into whether members of Trump's campaign colluded with Russia during the White House race and if he obstructed official inquiries into the matter. The impending release of the 400-page report is expected to shed light on some of the more contentious episodes of Trump's election bid and presidency, including his firing of FBI head James Comey in 2017 and his campaign's contacts with Russians.  The investigation, which Trump has repeatedly called a witch hunt, ensnared 34 people and three companies, including some members of Trump's inner circle such as his former campaign chairman Paul Manafort and former national security adviser Michael Flynn.  In a March 24 letter to Congress, Barr said that Mueller's investigation did not establish that members of Trump's election campaign conspired with Russia. He also said that Mueller presented evidence "on both sides" about whether Trump obstructed justice, but he did not draw a conclusion one way or the other. Barr said that he reviewed Mueller's evidence and made his own determination that Trump should not face obstruction charges. The lack of details in Barr's letter, his decision not to charge Trump and his refusal to release the report in full without redactions has angered Democrats, who fear he may be sugar coating Mueller's findings. REDACTION Redacted official documents or reports typically have sections blacked out to protect sensitive information.  Barr gave no indication of how much of the report will be obscured but said he was working with Mueller on restricting details about secret grand jury information, U.S. intelligence gathering and ongoing criminal cases as well as potentially damaging information about peripheral players who were not charged in the Russia probe.  To be transparent about what would be redacted, he told lawmakers he intends to "color code the excisions from the report" and provide "explanatory notes describing the basis for each redaction." Barr left open the possibility that some members of Congress would be allowed to review secret information from the report in a safe setting. "I can envision a situation where under appropriate safeguards, that information can be shared," Barr said. "I also think under appropriate safeguards, there is a way of people verifying these categories (of redactions) were not abused."  Democrats repeatedly criticized Barr for his handling of the report, including taking it upon himself in the letter to decide that Trump should not be charged with obstruction of justice. Nita Lowey, chairwoman of the House Appropriations Committee, said Barr's letter summarizing the Mueller report appears to "cherry-pick from the report to draw the most favorable conclusion possible for the president." "In many ways, your letter raises more questions than it answers," she added. The New York Times and the Washington Post reported last week that some investigators on Mueller's team were unhappy with the way Barr described their findings. The reports said that some of the evidence against Trump was more damning than Barr's letter indicated. Barr said he did not have insight into why some on Mueller's team were upset. "I suspect that they probably wanted more put out," he said. Barr said he did not offer to let Mueller help draft his four-page March 24 letter to Congress on the conclusions of the special counsel's investigation. Asked why, Barr said, "Because it was my letter." He said the White House did not review the letter to Congress laying out Mueller's findings before he sent it. Last week, Democrats on the House Judiciary Committee prepared subpoenas that they plan to issue to the Justice Department if Barr does not agree to release the Mueller report in full.   (Reporting by Sarah N. Lynch and Doina Chiacu; Editing by Kevin Drawbaugh and Alistair Bell)

Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — U.S. Attorney General William Barr told lawmakers on Tuesday that he intends to release "within a week" a redacted version of the long-awaited report on Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election from Special Counsel Robert Mueller. During a congressional hearing, Barr was repeatedly challenged by Democrats who raised suspicions that he may have misrepresented Mueller's report to paint the Republican president in a better light. Barr, an appointee of Trump who last month announced what he said were the main findings of the report, said he would be as open as possible about redactions of sensitive information when he hands over the full document. "Within a week I will be in position to release that report to the public and then I will engage with the chairmen of both judiciary committees about that report, about any further requests that they have," Barr said at his first appearance before Congress since receiving the report on March 22. "I don't intend at this stage to send the full unredacted report to the committee," Barr told a House of Representatives Appropriations subcommittee. "I am relying on my own discretion to make as much public as I can." Tuesday's hearing came a little more than two weeks after Mueller wrapped up a 22-month-long probe into whether members of Trump's campaign colluded with Russia during the White House race and if he obstructed official inquiries into the matter. The impending release of the 400-page report is expected to shed light on some of the more contentious episodes of Trump's election bid and presidency, including his firing of FBI head James Comey in 2017 and his campaign's contacts with Russians.  The investigation, which Trump has repeatedly called a witch hunt, ensnared 34 people and three companies, including some members of Trump's inner circle such as his former campaign chairman Paul Manafort and former national security adviser Michael Flynn.  In a March 24 letter to Congress, Barr said that Mueller's investigation did not establish that members of Trump's election campaign conspired with Russia. He also said that Mueller presented evidence "on both sides" about whether Trump obstructed justice, but he did not draw a conclusion one way or the other. Barr said that he reviewed Mueller's evidence and made his own determination that Trump should not face obstruction charges. The lack of details in Barr's letter, his decision not to charge Trump and his refusal to release the report in full without redactions has angered Democrats, who fear he may be sugar coating Mueller's findings. REDACTION Redacted official documents or reports typically have sections blacked out to protect sensitive information.  Barr gave no indication of how much of the report will be obscured but said he was working with Mueller on restricting details about secret grand jury information, U.S. intelligence gathering and ongoing criminal cases as well as potentially damaging information about peripheral players who were not charged in the Russia probe.  To be transparent about what would be redacted, he told lawmakers he intends to "color code the excisions from the report" and provide "explanatory notes describing the basis for each redaction." Barr left open the possibility that some members of Congress would be allowed to review secret information from the report in a safe setting. "I can envision a situation where under appropriate safeguards, that information can be shared," Barr said. "I also think under appropriate safeguards, there is a way of people verifying these categories (of redactions) were not abused."  Democrats repeatedly criticized Barr for his handling of the report, including taking it upon himself in the letter to decide that Trump should not be charged with obstruction of justice. Nita Lowey, chairwoman of the House Appropriations Committee, said Barr's letter summarizing the Mueller report appears to "cherry-pick from the report to draw the most favorable conclusion possible for the president." "In many ways, your letter raises more questions than it answers," she added. The New York Times and the Washington Post reported last week that some investigators on Mueller's team were unhappy with the way Barr described their findings. The reports said that some of the evidence against Trump was more damning than Barr's letter indicated. Barr said he did not have insight into why some on Mueller's team were upset. "I suspect that they probably wanted more put out," he said. Barr said he did not offer to let Mueller help draft his four-page March 24 letter to Congress on the conclusions of the special counsel's investigation. Asked why, Barr said, "Because it was my letter." He said the White House did not review the letter to Congress laying out Mueller's findings before he sent it. Last week, Democrats on the House Judiciary Committee prepared subpoenas that they plan to issue to the Justice Department if Barr does not agree to release the Mueller report in full.   (Reporting by Sarah N. Lynch and Doina Chiacu; Editing by Kevin Drawbaugh and Alistair Bell)Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — Special Counsel Robert Mueller's report on his inquiry into Russia's role in the 2016 U.S. election provided extensive details on President Donald Trump's efforts to thwart the probe, giving Democrats plenty of political ammunition against the Republican but no consensus on how to use it. Mueller's 448-page report, the product of a 22-month investigation, built a broad case that Trump had committed obstruction of justice but stopped short of concluding he had committed a crime, although it did not exonerate him. Mueller noted Congress has the power to address whether Trump violated the law, and Democrats quickly vowed to steam ahead with congressional investigations of the president. But party leaders played down talk of impeachment just 18 months before the 2020 presidential election, even as some prominent members of the party's progressive wing, most notably U.S. Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, promised to push the idea. "Many know I take no pleasure in discussions of impeachment. I didn’t campaign on it, & rarely discuss it unprompted," she said on Twitter. "But the report squarely puts this on our doorstep." Representative Doug Collins, the top Republican on the House Judiciary Committee, said on Twitter: "There seems to be some confusion ... This isn’t a matter of legal interpretation; it’s reading comprehension. The report doesn’t say Congress should investigate obstruction now. It says Congress can make laws about obstruction under Article I powers." Many of the report's findings are certain to be repeated on the campaign trail as Democrats make their case against Trump's re-election, although Democratic presidential candidates were cautious in responding on Thursday. Mueller's report noted "numerous links" between the Russian government and Trump's campaign and said the president's team "expected it would benefit electorally from information stolen and released through Russian efforts," referring to hacked Democratic emails.  But Mueller, a former FBI director, concluded there was not enough evidence to establish that Trump's campaign engaged in a criminal conspiracy with Moscow. After the report's release, Trump appeared to be in a celebratory mood. Trump, having long described Mueller's investigation as a "witch hunt," on Thursday night told a crowd of well wishers in Florida where he will spend the weekend: "Game over folks, now it's back to work." The report, with some portions blacked out to protect sensitive information, revealed details of how Trump tried to force Mueller's ouster, directed members of his administration to publicly vouch for his innocence and dangled a pardon to a former aide to try to prevent him from cooperating with the special counsel. "The President's efforts to influence the investigation were mostly unsuccessful, but that is largely because the persons who surrounded the President declined to carry out orders or accede to his requests," the report stated.  The report said that when former Attorney General Jeff Sessions told Trump in May 2017 that the Justice Department was appointing a special counsel to look into allegations that his campaign colluded with Russia, Trump slumped back in his chair and said, "Oh my God. This is terrible. This is the end of my presidency. I'm fucked." Attorney General William Barr told a news conference Mueller had detailed "10 episodes involving the president and discusses potential legal theories for connecting these actions to elements of an obstruction offense." Barr concluded last month after receiving a confidential copy of Mueller's report that Trump had not actually committed a crime. IMPEACHMENT UNLIKELY Any impeachment effort would start in the Democratic-led House of Representatives, but Trump's removal would require the support of the Republican-led Senate - an unlikely outcome. The Democratic chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, Jerrold Nadler, said he would issue subpoenas to obtain the unredacted Mueller report and asked Mueller to testify before the panel by May 23. Nadler told reporters in New York that Mueller probably wrote the report with the intent of providing Congress a road map for future action, but the congressman said it was too early to talk about impeachment. "Based on what we have seen to date, going forward on impeachment is not worthwhile at this point. Very frankly, there is an election in 18 months and the American people will make a judgment," House Democratic leader Steny Hoyer told CNN. The inquiry laid bare what the special counsel and U.S. intelligence agencies have described as a Russian campaign of hacking and propaganda to sow discord in the United States, denigrate 2016 Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton and boost Trump, the Kremlin's preferred candidate. Russia has denied election interference. The report said Mueller accepted the longstanding Justice Department view that a sitting president cannot be indicted on criminal charges, while still recognizing that a president can be criminally investigated. In analyzing whether Trump obstructed justice, Mueller looked at a series of actions by Trump, including his attempts to remove Mueller and limit the scope of his probe and efforts to prevent the public from knowing about a June 2016 meeting at Trump Tower in New York between senior campaign officials and Russians. In June 2017, Trump directed White House counsel Don McGahn to tell the Justice Department's No. 2 official, Rod Rosenstein, that Mueller had conflicts of interest and must be removed, the report said. McGahn did not carry out the order. McGahn was home on a Saturday that month when Trump called him at least twice. "You gotta do this. You gotta call Rod," McGahn recalled the president as saying, according to the report. House Judiciary Democrat Jamie Raskin pointed to Trump's effort to get McGahn to fire Mueller and then lie about being told to do so as an area of interest for lawmakers, and said McGahn and former Attorney General Jeff Sessions could be valuable witnesses as the committee moves forward.  (Reporting by Sarah N. Lynch and Andy Sullivan; additional reporting by Steve Holland, Eric Beech and David Morgan; writing by John Whitesides; editing by Grant McCool)

Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — Special Counsel Robert Mueller's report on his inquiry into Russia's role in the 2016 U.S. election provided extensive details on President Donald Trump's efforts to thwart the probe, giving Democrats plenty of political ammunition against the Republican but no consensus on how to use it. Mueller's 448-page report, the product of a 22-month investigation, built a broad case that Trump had committed obstruction of justice but stopped short of concluding he had committed a crime, although it did not exonerate him. Mueller noted Congress has the power to address whether Trump violated the law, and Democrats quickly vowed to steam ahead with congressional investigations of the president. But party leaders played down talk of impeachment just 18 months before the 2020 presidential election, even as some prominent members of the party's progressive wing, most notably U.S. Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, promised to push the idea. "Many know I take no pleasure in discussions of impeachment. I didn’t campaign on it, & rarely discuss it unprompted," she said on Twitter. "But the report squarely puts this on our doorstep." Representative Doug Collins, the top Republican on the House Judiciary Committee, said on Twitter: "There seems to be some confusion ... This isn’t a matter of legal interpretation; it’s reading comprehension. The report doesn’t say Congress should investigate obstruction now. It says Congress can make laws about obstruction under Article I powers." Many of the report's findings are certain to be repeated on the campaign trail as Democrats make their case against Trump's re-election, although Democratic presidential candidates were cautious in responding on Thursday. Mueller's report noted "numerous links" between the Russian government and Trump's campaign and said the president's team "expected it would benefit electorally from information stolen and released through Russian efforts," referring to hacked Democratic emails.  But Mueller, a former FBI director, concluded there was not enough evidence to establish that Trump's campaign engaged in a criminal conspiracy with Moscow. After the report's release, Trump appeared to be in a celebratory mood. Trump, having long described Mueller's investigation as a "witch hunt," on Thursday night told a crowd of well wishers in Florida where he will spend the weekend: "Game over folks, now it's back to work." The report, with some portions blacked out to protect sensitive information, revealed details of how Trump tried to force Mueller's ouster, directed members of his administration to publicly vouch for his innocence and dangled a pardon to a former aide to try to prevent him from cooperating with the special counsel. "The President's efforts to influence the investigation were mostly unsuccessful, but that is largely because the persons who surrounded the President declined to carry out orders or accede to his requests," the report stated.  The report said that when former Attorney General Jeff Sessions told Trump in May 2017 that the Justice Department was appointing a special counsel to look into allegations that his campaign colluded with Russia, Trump slumped back in his chair and said, "Oh my God. This is terrible. This is the end of my presidency. I'm fucked." Attorney General William Barr told a news conference Mueller had detailed "10 episodes involving the president and discusses potential legal theories for connecting these actions to elements of an obstruction offense." Barr concluded last month after receiving a confidential copy of Mueller's report that Trump had not actually committed a crime. IMPEACHMENT UNLIKELY Any impeachment effort would start in the Democratic-led House of Representatives, but Trump's removal would require the support of the Republican-led Senate - an unlikely outcome. The Democratic chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, Jerrold Nadler, said he would issue subpoenas to obtain the unredacted Mueller report and asked Mueller to testify before the panel by May 23. Nadler told reporters in New York that Mueller probably wrote the report with the intent of providing Congress a road map for future action, but the congressman said it was too early to talk about impeachment. "Based on what we have seen to date, going forward on impeachment is not worthwhile at this point. Very frankly, there is an election in 18 months and the American people will make a judgment," House Democratic leader Steny Hoyer told CNN. The inquiry laid bare what the special counsel and U.S. intelligence agencies have described as a Russian campaign of hacking and propaganda to sow discord in the United States, denigrate 2016 Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton and boost Trump, the Kremlin's preferred candidate. Russia has denied election interference. The report said Mueller accepted the longstanding Justice Department view that a sitting president cannot be indicted on criminal charges, while still recognizing that a president can be criminally investigated. In analyzing whether Trump obstructed justice, Mueller looked at a series of actions by Trump, including his attempts to remove Mueller and limit the scope of his probe and efforts to prevent the public from knowing about a June 2016 meeting at Trump Tower in New York between senior campaign officials and Russians. In June 2017, Trump directed White House counsel Don McGahn to tell the Justice Department's No. 2 official, Rod Rosenstein, that Mueller had conflicts of interest and must be removed, the report said. McGahn did not carry out the order. McGahn was home on a Saturday that month when Trump called him at least twice. "You gotta do this. You gotta call Rod," McGahn recalled the president as saying, according to the report. House Judiciary Democrat Jamie Raskin pointed to Trump's effort to get McGahn to fire Mueller and then lie about being told to do so as an area of interest for lawmakers, and said McGahn and former Attorney General Jeff Sessions could be valuable witnesses as the committee moves forward.  (Reporting by Sarah N. Lynch and Andy Sullivan; additional reporting by Steve Holland, Eric Beech and David Morgan; writing by John Whitesides; editing by Grant McCool)Supported by By Sarah Mervosh The political news cycle is fast, and keeping up can be overwhelming. Trying to find differing perspectives worth your time is even harder. That’s why we have scoured the internet for political writing from the right and the left that you might not have seen. Kenneth W. Starr in The Atlantic: “… The special counsel cannot seek an indictment, and must remain quiet.” Mr. Starr, the independent counsel who oversaw the investigation that led to the impeachment of President Bill Clinton, made clear that the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, was subject to different rules from the ones he was in 1998, when he delivered a book-length report directly to Congress. “The drafters of the new regime — the one under which Mueller operates — set themselves firmly against the revolutionary principle of factually rich prosecutorial reports,” he wrote. “It might seem strange for me to say, but they were right to do so.” Read more. _____ Andrew C. McCarthy in National Review: “Well, if we’re going to have disclosure, fine. But let’s have full disclosure …” The president’s critics are demanding full disclosure of the special counsel’s report. Mr. McCarthy said he was not opposed to that, as long as full disclosure included information about how the investigation got started to begin with. Read more. _____ Madison Gesiotto in The Daily Caller: “Even the most liberal partisans know that Mueller’s report will be the death knell of the Russia collusion hoax they’ve been perpetuating …” Ms. Gesiotto, a supporter of President Trump, criticized journalists and television hosts for being biased and described what she called their “stages of grief” over the news that no further indictments were coming. Read more. Neal K. Katyal in The Washington Post: “Absolutely nothing in the law or the regulations prevents the report from becoming public.” Mr. Katyal, the former acting solicitor general under President Barack Obama who drafted the special counsel regulations in 1998 and 1999, said that Attorney General William P. Barr could and should release the report. The law, he wrote, gives “all the latitude in the world” to make the report public. Read more. _____ David A. Graham in The Atlantic: “But the president might find himself missing Mueller more than he expects.” Despite all the anticipation of the Mueller report, Mr. Graham wrote, few will be happy that it is finished. His argument: Democrats will no longer be able to use the continuing investigation as a reason to wait to act against President Trump. Republicans will also be forced to reckon with the president. And Mr. Trump, who has succeeded when he has a nemesis to rally against, will find himself without a villain. Read more. _____ David Remnick in The New Yorker: “The emergency that the Trump presidency represents leaves the Democratic Party’s cast of candidates with a singular responsibility — to win the election …” Mr. Remnick, the editor of The New Yorker, wrote that it was unlikely that Mr. Trump would change his behavior after the Mueller report. Of the Democratic candidates for president in 2020, he suggested that the right one not only has to be able to win the election but also be up to the challenge of undoing the legacy of Mr. Trump’s “moral and material corruption.” Read more. Noah Feldman in Bloomberg: “The main takeaway from the news that broke Friday evening, then, is that the Constitution is working.” Mr. Feldman offered a reminder that the culmination of the Mueller report was “far from a foregone conclusion throughout much of the past two years.” Whatever the report says, he argued, the fact that it exists is a win for democracy. Read more. _____ Benjamin Wittes in Lawfare: “… To say that Mueller is not recommending further charges does not tell you all that much unless you know why he’s not recommending further charges.” Mr. Wittes cautioned against jumping to conclusions about the end of the Mueller investigation without knowing why it ended. Was there a finding of innocence? Or was the evidence not sufficient for prosecution? And, Mr. Wittes said, even if the subject of a criminal investigation claims vindication, that does not mean the person cannot not be judged morally. Read more. _____ Chris Cillizza in CNN: “We are likely to look back on Trump’s presidency — no matter what the report actually says — as ‘before Mueller report’ and ‘after the Mueller report.’” Though the Mueller investigation has taken up about 85 percent of Mr. Trump’s presidency, Mr. Cillizza argued, this milestone is just the end of the beginning, not the beginning of the end. Read more. Follow Sarah Mervosh on @Twitter: @smervosh    

Supported by By Sarah Mervosh The political news cycle is fast, and keeping up can be overwhelming. Trying to find differing perspectives worth your time is even harder. That’s why we have scoured the internet for political writing from the right and the left that you might not have seen. Kenneth W. Starr in The Atlantic: “… The special counsel cannot seek an indictment, and must remain quiet.” Mr. Starr, the independent counsel who oversaw the investigation that led to the impeachment of President Bill Clinton, made clear that the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, was subject to different rules from the ones he was in 1998, when he delivered a book-length report directly to Congress. “The drafters of the new regime — the one under which Mueller operates — set themselves firmly against the revolutionary principle of factually rich prosecutorial reports,” he wrote. “It might seem strange for me to say, but they were right to do so.” Read more. _____ Andrew C. McCarthy in National Review: “Well, if we’re going to have disclosure, fine. But let’s have full disclosure …” The president’s critics are demanding full disclosure of the special counsel’s report. Mr. McCarthy said he was not opposed to that, as long as full disclosure included information about how the investigation got started to begin with. Read more. _____ Madison Gesiotto in The Daily Caller: “Even the most liberal partisans know that Mueller’s report will be the death knell of the Russia collusion hoax they’ve been perpetuating …” Ms. Gesiotto, a supporter of President Trump, criticized journalists and television hosts for being biased and described what she called their “stages of grief” over the news that no further indictments were coming. Read more. Neal K. Katyal in The Washington Post: “Absolutely nothing in the law or the regulations prevents the report from becoming public.” Mr. Katyal, the former acting solicitor general under President Barack Obama who drafted the special counsel regulations in 1998 and 1999, said that Attorney General William P. Barr could and should release the report. The law, he wrote, gives “all the latitude in the world” to make the report public. Read more. _____ David A. Graham in The Atlantic: “But the president might find himself missing Mueller more than he expects.” Despite all the anticipation of the Mueller report, Mr. Graham wrote, few will be happy that it is finished. His argument: Democrats will no longer be able to use the continuing investigation as a reason to wait to act against President Trump. Republicans will also be forced to reckon with the president. And Mr. Trump, who has succeeded when he has a nemesis to rally against, will find himself without a villain. Read more. _____ David Remnick in The New Yorker: “The emergency that the Trump presidency represents leaves the Democratic Party’s cast of candidates with a singular responsibility — to win the election …” Mr. Remnick, the editor of The New Yorker, wrote that it was unlikely that Mr. Trump would change his behavior after the Mueller report. Of the Democratic candidates for president in 2020, he suggested that the right one not only has to be able to win the election but also be up to the challenge of undoing the legacy of Mr. Trump’s “moral and material corruption.” Read more. Noah Feldman in Bloomberg: “The main takeaway from the news that broke Friday evening, then, is that the Constitution is working.” Mr. Feldman offered a reminder that the culmination of the Mueller report was “far from a foregone conclusion throughout much of the past two years.” Whatever the report says, he argued, the fact that it exists is a win for democracy. Read more. _____ Benjamin Wittes in Lawfare: “… To say that Mueller is not recommending further charges does not tell you all that much unless you know why he’s not recommending further charges.” Mr. Wittes cautioned against jumping to conclusions about the end of the Mueller investigation without knowing why it ended. Was there a finding of innocence? Or was the evidence not sufficient for prosecution? And, Mr. Wittes said, even if the subject of a criminal investigation claims vindication, that does not mean the person cannot not be judged morally. Read more. _____ Chris Cillizza in CNN: “We are likely to look back on Trump’s presidency — no matter what the report actually says — as ‘before Mueller report’ and ‘after the Mueller report.’” Though the Mueller investigation has taken up about 85 percent of Mr. Trump’s presidency, Mr. Cillizza argued, this milestone is just the end of the beginning, not the beginning of the end. Read more. Follow Sarah Mervosh on @Twitter: @smervosh    Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — The president isn't waiting. As Washington counts down the final hours until publication of the redacted special counsel report — now expected Thursday — Donald Trump stepped up his attacks Monday in an effort to undermine potential disclosures on Russia, his 2016 campaign and the aftermath. He unleashed a series of tweets focusing on the previously released summary of special counsel Robert Mueller's conclusions — including a crucial one on obstruction of justice that Trump again misrepresented — produced by Attorney General William Barr. "Mueller, and the A.G. based on Mueller findings (and great intelligence), have already ruled No Collusion, No Obstruction," Trump tweeted. "These were crimes committed by Crooked Hillary, the DNC, Dirty Cops and others! INVESTIGATE THE INVESTIGATORS!" Press Secretary Sarah Sanders repeatedly tried to make the same case on TV talk shows on Sunday. But the political battle is far from finished over the special counsel's investigation of Russian efforts to help Trump in 2016 and whether there was cooperation with his campaign. Democrats are calling for Mueller himself to testify before Congress and have expressed concern that Barr will order unnecessary censoring of the report to protect the president. The House Judiciary Committee, led by Rep. Jerry Nadler of New York, is poised to try to compel Barr to turn over an unredacted copy as well as the report's underlying investigative files. The Justice Department announced Monday that it expects to release the redacted version Thursday morning, sending the findings of the nearly two-year probe to Congress and making them available to the public. Mueller officially concluded his investigation late last month and submitted the confidential report to Barr. Two days later, the attorney general sent Congress a four-page letter that detailed Mueller's "principal conclusions." In his letter, Barr said the special counsel did not find a criminal conspiracy between Russia and Trump associates during the campaign. However, contrary to Trump's false claim, Mueller did not reach a conclusion on whether Trump obstructed justice. Instead, Mueller presented evidence on both sides of that question. Barr said he did not believe the evidence was sufficient to prove that Trump had obstructed justice, but he noted that Mueller's team did not exonerate the president. Portions of the report being released by the Justice Department will be redacted to protect grand jury material, sensitive intelligence, matters that could affect ongoing investigations and damage to the privacy rights of third parties, the attorney general has said. The scores of outstanding questions about the investigation have not stopped the president and his allies from declaring victory. They have painted House Democrats' investigations as partisan overreach and have targeted news outlets and individual reporters they say have promoted the collusion story. The president himself seethed at a political rally that the whole thing was an attempt "to tear up the fabric of our great democracy." He has told confidants in recent days that he was certain the full report would back up his claims of vindication but was also convinced the media would manipulate the findings in an effort to damage him, according to two Republicans close to the White House not authorized to speak publicly about private conversations. In the waiting game's final days, the White House continued to try to shape the narrative. "There was no obstruction, which I don't how you can interpret that any other way than total exoneration," press secretary Sanders said on "Fox News Sunday." While the president unleashed his personal grievances, his team seized on any exculpatory information in Barr's letter, hoping to define the conversation in advance, according to White House officials and outside advisers who spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to publicly discuss private deliberations. The victory lap was deliberately premature, they said. But Trump's inner circle knows there will likely be further releases of embarrassing or politically damaging information. Barr's letter, for instance, hinted that there would be at least one unknown action by the president that Mueller examined as a possible act of obstruction. A number of White House aides have privately said they are eager for all Russia stories, good or bad, to fade from the headlines. And there is fear among some presidential confidants that the rush to spike the football in celebration could backfire if bombshell new information emerges. Trump and his allies also continue to attack the origins of the Russia investigation, portraying it as an effort by Democrats and career officials in the Justice Department to bring him down. "The Mueller Report, which was written by 18 Angry Democrats who also happen to be Trump Haters (and Clinton Supporters), should have focused on the people who SPIED on my 2016 Campaign, and others who fabricated the whole Russia Hoax. That is, never forget, the crime." Trump tweeted Monday. His long-asserted accusation — though not supported by evidence — that his campaign was spied upon was given new life last week when Barr, testifying before Congress, said he thinks "spying did occur" in 2016. Barr may have been referring to a surveillance warrant the FBI obtained in the fall of 2016 to monitor the communications of former Trump campaign aide Carter Page, who has not been charged with any wrongdoing. The warrant was obtained after Page had left the campaign and was renewed several times. Critics of the Russia investigation have seized on the fact that the warrant application cited Democratic-funded opposition research, done by a former British spy, into the Trump campaign's ties to Russia. Barr later softened his tone to "I am not saying improper surveillance occurred." The attorney general's comments have frustrated Democrats, already anxious for the release of the full, uncensored report and concerned that Barr may withhold pertinent information. The report could provide new information that could prompt further investigations or even consideration of impeachment proceedings, a tricky political calculation since Mueller did not conclude there was collusion or obstruction. The Russia probe began on July 31, 2016, when the FBI opened a counterintelligence investigation into Russia's efforts to influence the presidential campaign and whether anyone on the Trump campaign was involved. That probe was prompted by former Trump campaign foreign policy adviser George Papadopoulos' contacts with Russian intermediaries, including a Maltese professor who told the young aide that the Russians had dirt on Hillary Clinton in the form of emails. ___ Lemire reported from New York. Associated Press writer Chad Day contributed. ___ Follow Lemire on Twitter at http://twitter.com/@JonLemire and Balsamo at http://twitter.com/@MikeBalsamo1 .

Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — The president isn't waiting. As Washington counts down the final hours until publication of the redacted special counsel report — now expected Thursday — Donald Trump stepped up his attacks Monday in an effort to undermine potential disclosures on Russia, his 2016 campaign and the aftermath. He unleashed a series of tweets focusing on the previously released summary of special counsel Robert Mueller's conclusions — including a crucial one on obstruction of justice that Trump again misrepresented — produced by Attorney General William Barr. "Mueller, and the A.G. based on Mueller findings (and great intelligence), have already ruled No Collusion, No Obstruction," Trump tweeted. "These were crimes committed by Crooked Hillary, the DNC, Dirty Cops and others! INVESTIGATE THE INVESTIGATORS!" Press Secretary Sarah Sanders repeatedly tried to make the same case on TV talk shows on Sunday. But the political battle is far from finished over the special counsel's investigation of Russian efforts to help Trump in 2016 and whether there was cooperation with his campaign. Democrats are calling for Mueller himself to testify before Congress and have expressed concern that Barr will order unnecessary censoring of the report to protect the president. The House Judiciary Committee, led by Rep. Jerry Nadler of New York, is poised to try to compel Barr to turn over an unredacted copy as well as the report's underlying investigative files. The Justice Department announced Monday that it expects to release the redacted version Thursday morning, sending the findings of the nearly two-year probe to Congress and making them available to the public. Mueller officially concluded his investigation late last month and submitted the confidential report to Barr. Two days later, the attorney general sent Congress a four-page letter that detailed Mueller's "principal conclusions." In his letter, Barr said the special counsel did not find a criminal conspiracy between Russia and Trump associates during the campaign. However, contrary to Trump's false claim, Mueller did not reach a conclusion on whether Trump obstructed justice. Instead, Mueller presented evidence on both sides of that question. Barr said he did not believe the evidence was sufficient to prove that Trump had obstructed justice, but he noted that Mueller's team did not exonerate the president. Portions of the report being released by the Justice Department will be redacted to protect grand jury material, sensitive intelligence, matters that could affect ongoing investigations and damage to the privacy rights of third parties, the attorney general has said. The scores of outstanding questions about the investigation have not stopped the president and his allies from declaring victory. They have painted House Democrats' investigations as partisan overreach and have targeted news outlets and individual reporters they say have promoted the collusion story. The president himself seethed at a political rally that the whole thing was an attempt "to tear up the fabric of our great democracy." He has told confidants in recent days that he was certain the full report would back up his claims of vindication but was also convinced the media would manipulate the findings in an effort to damage him, according to two Republicans close to the White House not authorized to speak publicly about private conversations. In the waiting game's final days, the White House continued to try to shape the narrative. "There was no obstruction, which I don't how you can interpret that any other way than total exoneration," press secretary Sanders said on "Fox News Sunday." While the president unleashed his personal grievances, his team seized on any exculpatory information in Barr's letter, hoping to define the conversation in advance, according to White House officials and outside advisers who spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to publicly discuss private deliberations. The victory lap was deliberately premature, they said. But Trump's inner circle knows there will likely be further releases of embarrassing or politically damaging information. Barr's letter, for instance, hinted that there would be at least one unknown action by the president that Mueller examined as a possible act of obstruction. A number of White House aides have privately said they are eager for all Russia stories, good or bad, to fade from the headlines. And there is fear among some presidential confidants that the rush to spike the football in celebration could backfire if bombshell new information emerges. Trump and his allies also continue to attack the origins of the Russia investigation, portraying it as an effort by Democrats and career officials in the Justice Department to bring him down. "The Mueller Report, which was written by 18 Angry Democrats who also happen to be Trump Haters (and Clinton Supporters), should have focused on the people who SPIED on my 2016 Campaign, and others who fabricated the whole Russia Hoax. That is, never forget, the crime." Trump tweeted Monday. His long-asserted accusation — though not supported by evidence — that his campaign was spied upon was given new life last week when Barr, testifying before Congress, said he thinks "spying did occur" in 2016. Barr may have been referring to a surveillance warrant the FBI obtained in the fall of 2016 to monitor the communications of former Trump campaign aide Carter Page, who has not been charged with any wrongdoing. The warrant was obtained after Page had left the campaign and was renewed several times. Critics of the Russia investigation have seized on the fact that the warrant application cited Democratic-funded opposition research, done by a former British spy, into the Trump campaign's ties to Russia. Barr later softened his tone to "I am not saying improper surveillance occurred." The attorney general's comments have frustrated Democrats, already anxious for the release of the full, uncensored report and concerned that Barr may withhold pertinent information. The report could provide new information that could prompt further investigations or even consideration of impeachment proceedings, a tricky political calculation since Mueller did not conclude there was collusion or obstruction. The Russia probe began on July 31, 2016, when the FBI opened a counterintelligence investigation into Russia's efforts to influence the presidential campaign and whether anyone on the Trump campaign was involved. That probe was prompted by former Trump campaign foreign policy adviser George Papadopoulos' contacts with Russian intermediaries, including a Maltese professor who told the young aide that the Russians had dirt on Hillary Clinton in the form of emails. ___ Lemire reported from New York. Associated Press writer Chad Day contributed. ___ Follow Lemire on Twitter at http://twitter.com/@JonLemire and Balsamo at http://twitter.com/@MikeBalsamo1 .Supported by By Reuters (Reuters) - Attorney General William Barr has provided only a glimpse of Special Counsel Robert Mueller's report on the inquiry into Russia's role in the 2016 U.S. election, with many details expected to emerge when the document is finally released. Barr on March 24 sent a four-page letter to lawmakers detailing Mueller's "principal conclusions" including that the 22-month probe did not establish that President Donald Trump's 2016 campaign team conspired with Russia. Barr said he found insufficient evidence in Mueller's report to conclude that Trump committed obstruction of justice, though the special counsel did not make a formal finding one way or the other on that. The attorney general has pledged to release the nearly 400-page report by mid-April, but has said portions will be blacked out to protect certain types of sensitive information. Here are five things to look for when the report is issued. OBSTRUCTION OF JUSTICE: WHY NO EXONERATION? Perhaps the biggest political risk for Trump is the special counsel's supporting evidence behind Mueller's assertion that while the report does not conclude the Republican president committed the crime of obstruction of justice it "also does not exonerate him" on that point. According to Barr's March 24 letter, Mueller has presented evidence on both sides of the question without concluding whether to prosecute. Barr filled that void by asserting there was no prosecutable case. But Barr's statement in the letter that "most" of Trump's actions that had raised questions about obstruction were "the subject of public reporting" suggested that some actions were not publicly known. Democrats in Congress do not believe Barr, a Trump appointee, should have the final say on the matter. While the prospect that the Democratic-led House of Representatives would begin the impeachment process to try to remove Trump from office appears to have receded, the House Judiciary Committee will be looking for any evidence relevant to ongoing probes into obstruction of justice, corruption and abuse of power by the president or others in the administration. Barr's comment that most of what Mueller probed on obstruction has been publicly reported indicates that events like Trump's firing of James Comey as FBI director in May 2017 when the agency was heading the Russia inquiry are likely to be the focus of this section of the report. RUSSIAN 'INFORMATION WARFARE' AND CAMPAIGN CONTACTS The report will detail indictments by Mueller of two Kremlin-backed operations to influence the 2016 election: one against a St. Petersburg-based troll farm called the Internet Research Agency accused of waging "information warfare" over social media; and the other charging Russian intelligence officers with hacking into Democratic Party servers and pilfering emails leaked to hurt Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton. With those two indictments already public and bearing no apparent link to the president, the focus may be on what Mueller concluded, if anything, about other incidents that involved contacts between Russians and people in Trump's orbit. That could include the June 2016 meeting at Trump Tower in New York in which a Russian lawyer promised "dirt" on Clinton to senior campaign officials, as well as a secret January 2017 meeting in the Seychelles investigated as a possible attempt to set up a back channel between the incoming Trump administration and the Kremlin while Democrat Barack Obama was still president. Any analysis of such contacts could shed light on why Mueller, according to Barr's summary, "did not establish that members of the Trump campaign conspired or coordinated with the Russian government in its election interference activities." MANAFORT, UKRAINE POLICY AND POLLING DATA In the weeks before Trump's former campaign chairman Paul Manafort was sentenced in March to 7-1/2 years in prison mostly for financial crimes related to millions of dollars he was paid by pro-Russia Ukrainian politicians, Mueller's team provided hints about what their pursuit of him was really about. Prosecutor Andrew Weissmann told a judge in February that an Aug. 2, 2016 meeting between Manafort and Konstantin Kilimnik, a consultant Mueller has said has ties to Russian intelligence, "went to the heart of" the special counsel's investigation. The meeting included a discussion about a proposal to resolve the conflict in Ukraine in terms favorable to the Kremlin, an issue that has damaged Russia's relations with the West. Prosecutors also said Manafort shared Trump campaign polling data with Kilimnik, although the significance of that act remains unclear.  One focus will be on what Mueller ultimately concluded about Manafort's interactions with Kilimnik and whether a failed attempt to secure cooperation from Manafort, who was found by a judge to have lied to prosecutors in breach of a plea agreement, significantly impeded the special counsel's work. NATIONAL SECURITY CONCERNS While Mueller did not find a criminal conspiracy with Russia, according to Barr, there is a chance the report will detail behavior and financial entanglements that give fodder to critics who have said Trump has shown a pattern of deference to the Kremlin. One example of such an entanglement was the proposal to build a Trump tower in Moscow, a deal potentially worth hundreds of millions of dollars that never materialized. Michael Cohen, Trump's former personal lawyer, admitted to lying to Congress about the project to provide cover because Trump on the campaign trail had denied any dealings with Russia. In the absence of criminal charges arising from Mueller's inquiry, House Intelligence Committee Chairman Adam Schiff has shifted his focus to whether Trump is "compromised" by such entanglements, influencing his policy decisions and posing a risk to national security. Some legal experts have said the counterintelligence probe Mueller inherited from Comey may prove more significant than his criminal inquiry, though it is not clear to what degree counterintelligence findings will be included in the report. Barr also has said he planned to redact material related to intelligence-gathering sources and methods. MIDDLE EAST INFLUENCE AND OTHER PROBES Another focus is whether Mueller will disclose anything from his inquiries into Middle Eastern efforts to influence Trump. One mystery is what, if anything, came of the special counsel's questioning of George Nader, a Lebanese-American businessman and consultant to the crown princes of the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia who started cooperating with Mueller last year. Nader attended the Seychelles meeting. He also was present at a Trump Tower meeting in August 2016, three months before the election, at which an Israeli social media specialist spoke with the president's son, Donald Trump Jr., about how his firm Psy-Group, which employed several former Israeli intelligence officers, could help the Trump campaign, according to the New York Times. Mueller's interest in Nader suggested the special counsel looked into whether additional countries sought to influence the election and whether they did so in concert with Russia. A lawyer for Nader did not respond to a request for comment. Barr has said he will redact from the Mueller report information on "other ongoing matters," including inquiries referred to other offices in the Justice Department. That makes it unclear if any findings related to the Middle East will appear in the report.  (Compiled by Nathan Layne in New York; Editing by Will Dunham)

Supported by By Reuters (Reuters) - Attorney General William Barr has provided only a glimpse of Special Counsel Robert Mueller's report on the inquiry into Russia's role in the 2016 U.S. election, with many details expected to emerge when the document is finally released. Barr on March 24 sent a four-page letter to lawmakers detailing Mueller's "principal conclusions" including that the 22-month probe did not establish that President Donald Trump's 2016 campaign team conspired with Russia. Barr said he found insufficient evidence in Mueller's report to conclude that Trump committed obstruction of justice, though the special counsel did not make a formal finding one way or the other on that. The attorney general has pledged to release the nearly 400-page report by mid-April, but has said portions will be blacked out to protect certain types of sensitive information. Here are five things to look for when the report is issued. OBSTRUCTION OF JUSTICE: WHY NO EXONERATION? Perhaps the biggest political risk for Trump is the special counsel's supporting evidence behind Mueller's assertion that while the report does not conclude the Republican president committed the crime of obstruction of justice it "also does not exonerate him" on that point. According to Barr's March 24 letter, Mueller has presented evidence on both sides of the question without concluding whether to prosecute. Barr filled that void by asserting there was no prosecutable case. But Barr's statement in the letter that "most" of Trump's actions that had raised questions about obstruction were "the subject of public reporting" suggested that some actions were not publicly known. Democrats in Congress do not believe Barr, a Trump appointee, should have the final say on the matter. While the prospect that the Democratic-led House of Representatives would begin the impeachment process to try to remove Trump from office appears to have receded, the House Judiciary Committee will be looking for any evidence relevant to ongoing probes into obstruction of justice, corruption and abuse of power by the president or others in the administration. Barr's comment that most of what Mueller probed on obstruction has been publicly reported indicates that events like Trump's firing of James Comey as FBI director in May 2017 when the agency was heading the Russia inquiry are likely to be the focus of this section of the report. RUSSIAN 'INFORMATION WARFARE' AND CAMPAIGN CONTACTS The report will detail indictments by Mueller of two Kremlin-backed operations to influence the 2016 election: one against a St. Petersburg-based troll farm called the Internet Research Agency accused of waging "information warfare" over social media; and the other charging Russian intelligence officers with hacking into Democratic Party servers and pilfering emails leaked to hurt Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton. With those two indictments already public and bearing no apparent link to the president, the focus may be on what Mueller concluded, if anything, about other incidents that involved contacts between Russians and people in Trump's orbit. That could include the June 2016 meeting at Trump Tower in New York in which a Russian lawyer promised "dirt" on Clinton to senior campaign officials, as well as a secret January 2017 meeting in the Seychelles investigated as a possible attempt to set up a back channel between the incoming Trump administration and the Kremlin while Democrat Barack Obama was still president. Any analysis of such contacts could shed light on why Mueller, according to Barr's summary, "did not establish that members of the Trump campaign conspired or coordinated with the Russian government in its election interference activities." MANAFORT, UKRAINE POLICY AND POLLING DATA In the weeks before Trump's former campaign chairman Paul Manafort was sentenced in March to 7-1/2 years in prison mostly for financial crimes related to millions of dollars he was paid by pro-Russia Ukrainian politicians, Mueller's team provided hints about what their pursuit of him was really about. Prosecutor Andrew Weissmann told a judge in February that an Aug. 2, 2016 meeting between Manafort and Konstantin Kilimnik, a consultant Mueller has said has ties to Russian intelligence, "went to the heart of" the special counsel's investigation. The meeting included a discussion about a proposal to resolve the conflict in Ukraine in terms favorable to the Kremlin, an issue that has damaged Russia's relations with the West. Prosecutors also said Manafort shared Trump campaign polling data with Kilimnik, although the significance of that act remains unclear.  One focus will be on what Mueller ultimately concluded about Manafort's interactions with Kilimnik and whether a failed attempt to secure cooperation from Manafort, who was found by a judge to have lied to prosecutors in breach of a plea agreement, significantly impeded the special counsel's work. NATIONAL SECURITY CONCERNS While Mueller did not find a criminal conspiracy with Russia, according to Barr, there is a chance the report will detail behavior and financial entanglements that give fodder to critics who have said Trump has shown a pattern of deference to the Kremlin. One example of such an entanglement was the proposal to build a Trump tower in Moscow, a deal potentially worth hundreds of millions of dollars that never materialized. Michael Cohen, Trump's former personal lawyer, admitted to lying to Congress about the project to provide cover because Trump on the campaign trail had denied any dealings with Russia. In the absence of criminal charges arising from Mueller's inquiry, House Intelligence Committee Chairman Adam Schiff has shifted his focus to whether Trump is "compromised" by such entanglements, influencing his policy decisions and posing a risk to national security. Some legal experts have said the counterintelligence probe Mueller inherited from Comey may prove more significant than his criminal inquiry, though it is not clear to what degree counterintelligence findings will be included in the report. Barr also has said he planned to redact material related to intelligence-gathering sources and methods. MIDDLE EAST INFLUENCE AND OTHER PROBES Another focus is whether Mueller will disclose anything from his inquiries into Middle Eastern efforts to influence Trump. One mystery is what, if anything, came of the special counsel's questioning of George Nader, a Lebanese-American businessman and consultant to the crown princes of the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia who started cooperating with Mueller last year. Nader attended the Seychelles meeting. He also was present at a Trump Tower meeting in August 2016, three months before the election, at which an Israeli social media specialist spoke with the president's son, Donald Trump Jr., about how his firm Psy-Group, which employed several former Israeli intelligence officers, could help the Trump campaign, according to the New York Times. Mueller's interest in Nader suggested the special counsel looked into whether additional countries sought to influence the election and whether they did so in concert with Russia. A lawyer for Nader did not respond to a request for comment. Barr has said he will redact from the Mueller report information on "other ongoing matters," including inquiries referred to other offices in the Justice Department. That makes it unclear if any findings related to the Middle East will appear in the report.  (Compiled by Nathan Layne in New York; Editing by Will Dunham)Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — Special Counsel Robert Mueller's 448-page report on Russia's meddling in the 2016 U.S. presidential election was publicly unveiled on Thursday, capping a 22-month investigation that President Donald Trump repeatedly labeled a "witch hunt." The inquiry found no evidence that Trump's 2016 campaign team engaged in a criminal conspiracy with Russia, and Mueller was unable to draw a conclusion on whether Trump committed obstruction of justice. Barr subsequently concluded that Trump did not commit the crime, but Mueller's report recounted 10 episodes involving Trump and evaluated whether obstruction of justice occurred. Here are likely next steps in a saga that has dogged Trump since his election and is likely to continue into 2020 as he seeks re-election: 2020 ELECTIONS Trump may try to campaign on the Mueller investigation, which many fellow Republicans think was an effort by the FBI to unseat him. His rallying cry that the investigation was a witch hunt to remove a democratically elected president could be effective in mobilizing his supporters, many of whom are already leery of Washington, to back him for a second term in office. Trump wasted no time trying to get the political edge on Thursday. Hours before Mueller's report was released he posted on Twitter: "The Greatest Political Hoax of all time! Crimes were committed by Crooked, Dirty Cops and DNC/The Democrats." Democratic presidential candidates have said little about the Mueller investigation, which has deeply divided an already polarized America. The question now is whether the release of the report will tempt them to comment, although that risks a bruising, and possibly losing, Twitter battle with Trump.  Polls show that voters are much more concerned about bread and butter issues surrounding the economy than the investigation. As a result, there may be little upside to Democratic candidates, especially in battleground districts dominated by moderate voters, seeking political advantage through the report. SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK Federal prosecutors in the Southern District of New York are examining Trump's business practices and financial dealings, according to testimony delivered to Congress in February by former Trump attorney Michael Cohen, who faces a three-year prison term for crimes related to payments arranged to women who claimed to have had affairs with Trump. The prosecutors have wider latitude to investigate than Mueller and they will be operating independent of him. New indictments by federal prosecutors in New York could overshadow the Mueller report. The Mueller report noted that it had made 14 criminal referrals that were outside the scope of the special counsel's authority. The report said evidence was sent to "appropriate law enforcement authorities," mainly other offices within the Department of Justice and the FBI. IMPEACHMENT? The chances of Democrats in the House of Representatives moving to impeach Trump diminished last month when Barr announced Mueller had found no evidence of collusion with Russia. But the details of Mueller's findings might add new fuel for launching impeachment proceedings that have been conducted only three times in U.S. history.  An impeachment effort would focus on whether Trump may have committed "high crimes and misdemeanors." That is a broad definition that gives Congress greater latitude than Mueller's stricter investigative mandate. Nevertheless, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, the top U.S. Democrat, said weeks before the report's release that she opposes impeachment, saying it would be too divisive to the nation. Given that no Republicans have shown interest in impeachment so far, any such effort likely would fizzle in the Senate where their support would be needed for a conviction - unless the report changes some minds. Nevertheless, some liberal Democrats have continued to press for impeachment. REDACTION BACKLASH Many Democrats demanded a full report with no portions blacked out, or redacted. The House Judiciary Committee could issue subpoenas demanding the full, unredacted report and related documents, as well as testimony gathered by Mueller from some of Trump's former top White House aides. If that action is taken, it is not clear whether the Justice Department would comply with the subpoenas. If not, this struggle could end up being arbitrated by the U.S. Supreme Court. BARR/MUELLER TESTIMONY Attorney General William Barr, the nation's top law enforcement officer, is scheduled to testify before the House Judiciary Committee on May 2. Democrats will try to dig deeper into Mueller's findings, while Republicans likely will defend Trump and argue that Mueller's findings vindicate him. Mueller is expected to testify in an open House Judiciary Committee hearing, but not until after Barr's appearance. TRUMP'S TAX FORMS Besides reviewing Mueller's findings, Democrats are pursuing other avenues for congressional probes into Trump's dealings as a businessman before he became president and since he moved into the White House in 2017. For example, the House Ways and Means Committee set an April 23 deadline for the Treasury Department's Internal Revenue Service to provide six years of Trump's individual and business tax filings. Democrats think the forms could give clues to Trump's possible business dealings with Russia. Failure to meet that deadline could prompt the House to hold administration officials in contempt of Congress, triggering legal maneuvers to get the agency to comply. OTHER CONGRESSIONAL INVESTIGATIONS The Republican-led Senate Intelligence Committee has yet to release findings of its own in-depth investigation of Russia's role in the 2016 elections. That could come later this year. Meanwhile, the House Intelligence Committee is ramping up its probe now that Democrats are in control. House Intelligence, Foreign Affairs and Oversight committees have been seeking documents relating to Trump's conversations with Russian President Vladimir Putin. The Oversight panel also has been looking into security clearance issues involving Trump's son-in-law Jared Kushner and others.  (Reporting by Richard Cowan; editing by Jonathan Oatis)

Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — Special Counsel Robert Mueller's 448-page report on Russia's meddling in the 2016 U.S. presidential election was publicly unveiled on Thursday, capping a 22-month investigation that President Donald Trump repeatedly labeled a "witch hunt." The inquiry found no evidence that Trump's 2016 campaign team engaged in a criminal conspiracy with Russia, and Mueller was unable to draw a conclusion on whether Trump committed obstruction of justice. Barr subsequently concluded that Trump did not commit the crime, but Mueller's report recounted 10 episodes involving Trump and evaluated whether obstruction of justice occurred. Here are likely next steps in a saga that has dogged Trump since his election and is likely to continue into 2020 as he seeks re-election: 2020 ELECTIONS Trump may try to campaign on the Mueller investigation, which many fellow Republicans think was an effort by the FBI to unseat him. His rallying cry that the investigation was a witch hunt to remove a democratically elected president could be effective in mobilizing his supporters, many of whom are already leery of Washington, to back him for a second term in office. Trump wasted no time trying to get the political edge on Thursday. Hours before Mueller's report was released he posted on Twitter: "The Greatest Political Hoax of all time! Crimes were committed by Crooked, Dirty Cops and DNC/The Democrats." Democratic presidential candidates have said little about the Mueller investigation, which has deeply divided an already polarized America. The question now is whether the release of the report will tempt them to comment, although that risks a bruising, and possibly losing, Twitter battle with Trump.  Polls show that voters are much more concerned about bread and butter issues surrounding the economy than the investigation. As a result, there may be little upside to Democratic candidates, especially in battleground districts dominated by moderate voters, seeking political advantage through the report. SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK Federal prosecutors in the Southern District of New York are examining Trump's business practices and financial dealings, according to testimony delivered to Congress in February by former Trump attorney Michael Cohen, who faces a three-year prison term for crimes related to payments arranged to women who claimed to have had affairs with Trump. The prosecutors have wider latitude to investigate than Mueller and they will be operating independent of him. New indictments by federal prosecutors in New York could overshadow the Mueller report. The Mueller report noted that it had made 14 criminal referrals that were outside the scope of the special counsel's authority. The report said evidence was sent to "appropriate law enforcement authorities," mainly other offices within the Department of Justice and the FBI. IMPEACHMENT? The chances of Democrats in the House of Representatives moving to impeach Trump diminished last month when Barr announced Mueller had found no evidence of collusion with Russia. But the details of Mueller's findings might add new fuel for launching impeachment proceedings that have been conducted only three times in U.S. history.  An impeachment effort would focus on whether Trump may have committed "high crimes and misdemeanors." That is a broad definition that gives Congress greater latitude than Mueller's stricter investigative mandate. Nevertheless, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, the top U.S. Democrat, said weeks before the report's release that she opposes impeachment, saying it would be too divisive to the nation. Given that no Republicans have shown interest in impeachment so far, any such effort likely would fizzle in the Senate where their support would be needed for a conviction - unless the report changes some minds. Nevertheless, some liberal Democrats have continued to press for impeachment. REDACTION BACKLASH Many Democrats demanded a full report with no portions blacked out, or redacted. The House Judiciary Committee could issue subpoenas demanding the full, unredacted report and related documents, as well as testimony gathered by Mueller from some of Trump's former top White House aides. If that action is taken, it is not clear whether the Justice Department would comply with the subpoenas. If not, this struggle could end up being arbitrated by the U.S. Supreme Court. BARR/MUELLER TESTIMONY Attorney General William Barr, the nation's top law enforcement officer, is scheduled to testify before the House Judiciary Committee on May 2. Democrats will try to dig deeper into Mueller's findings, while Republicans likely will defend Trump and argue that Mueller's findings vindicate him. Mueller is expected to testify in an open House Judiciary Committee hearing, but not until after Barr's appearance. TRUMP'S TAX FORMS Besides reviewing Mueller's findings, Democrats are pursuing other avenues for congressional probes into Trump's dealings as a businessman before he became president and since he moved into the White House in 2017. For example, the House Ways and Means Committee set an April 23 deadline for the Treasury Department's Internal Revenue Service to provide six years of Trump's individual and business tax filings. Democrats think the forms could give clues to Trump's possible business dealings with Russia. Failure to meet that deadline could prompt the House to hold administration officials in contempt of Congress, triggering legal maneuvers to get the agency to comply. OTHER CONGRESSIONAL INVESTIGATIONS The Republican-led Senate Intelligence Committee has yet to release findings of its own in-depth investigation of Russia's role in the 2016 elections. That could come later this year. Meanwhile, the House Intelligence Committee is ramping up its probe now that Democrats are in control. House Intelligence, Foreign Affairs and Oversight committees have been seeking documents relating to Trump's conversations with Russian President Vladimir Putin. The Oversight panel also has been looking into security clearance issues involving Trump's son-in-law Jared Kushner and others.  (Reporting by Richard Cowan; editing by Jonathan Oatis)Supported by By Mark Mazzetti WASHINGTON — Robert S. Mueller III revealed the scope of a historic Russian campaign to sabotage the 2016 presidential election in a much-anticipated report made public on Thursday, and he detailed a frantic monthslong effort by President Trump to thwart a federal investigation that imperiled his presidency from the start. Mr. Mueller, the special counsel, laid out how his team of prosecutors wrestled with whether Mr. Trump’s actions added up to a criminal obstruction-of-justice offense. They ultimately chose not to charge Mr. Trump, citing numerous legal and factual constraints, but pointedly declined to exonerate him and suggested that it might be the role of Congress to settle the matter. The report laid bare that Mr. Trump was elected with the help of a foreign power, and cataloged numerous meetings between Mr. Trump’s advisers and Russians seeking to influence the campaign and the presidential transition team — encounters set up in pursuit of business deals, policy initiatives and political dirt about Hillary Clinton, the Democratic candidate for president. The special counsel concluded that there was “insufficient evidence” to determine that the president or his aides had engaged in a criminal conspiracy with the Russians, even though the Trump campaign welcomed the Kremlin sabotage effort and “expected it would benefit electorally” from the hacks and leaks of Democratic emails. Then, after federal investigators opened an inquiry into the extraordinary Russian campaign, the president repeatedly tried to undermine it. “If we had confidence after a thorough investigation of the facts that the president clearly did not commit obstruction of justice, we would so state,” Mr. Mueller’s investigators wrote. “Based on the facts and the applicable legal standards, however, we are unable to reach that judgment.” Fevered speculation, now put to rest, arose in some circles that Mr. Trump and his immediate family might be in legal peril from Mr. Mueller’s investigation. At the same time, the report offered reams of evidence of a climate of deceit — and a base impulse for self-preservation — among a president and his top aides not seen since the days of Richard M. Nixon. That impulse prompted some presidential advisers to try to block Mr. Trump’s demands that they take steps to protect him from federal investigators. Some feared getting wrapped up in the widening inquiry. The findings from the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, are now available to the public. The redacted report details his two-year investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election. “The president’s efforts to influence the investigation were mostly unsuccessful, but that is largely because the persons who surrounded the president declined to carry out orders or accede to his requests,” the report said. The special counsel found that Mr. Trump had the authority to make many of his most controversial decisions, including the firing of James B. Comey as the F.B.I. director, by virtue of the powers the Constitution grants him. At the same time, it is a far more damning portrayal of his behavior than the one presented last month in a four-page letter released by Attorney General William P. Barr. “The incidents were often carried out through one-on-one meetings in which the president sought to use his official power outside of usual channels,” the report said. “These actions ranged from efforts to remove the special counsel and to reverse the effect of the attorney general’s recusal; to the attempted use of official power to limit the scope of the investigation; to direct and indirect contacts with witnesses with the potential to influence their testimony. Viewing the acts collectively can help to illuminate their significance.” In his letter, Mr. Barr announced that while Mr. Mueller had made no judgment about whether Mr. Trump had obstructed justice, he had stepped in to decide that the president had not. Mr. Barr defended his decision in a news conference on Thursday and said that some of the president’s actions were understandable given the “context” of his situation. “There is substantial evidence to show that the president was frustrated and angered by a sincere belief that the investigation was undermining his presidency, propelled by his political opponents and fueled by illegal leaks,” Mr. Barr said. The Mueller report is a sometimes gripping account of a presidency consumed by a sprawling investigation, and of a president seized by paranoia about what it might unearth. transcript Hosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Rachel Quester, Theo Balcomb and Paige Cowett, and edited by Lisa Tobin We dig into the highly anticipated findings of the special counsel’s two-year investigation. speaker It’s up. All right. It’s up. The report’s up. Sorry. [interposing voices]  [music]  michael barbaro From The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” speaker O.K. Mike? mike Yeah. speaker I want you to start on page 215 — “factual results of the obstruction investigation.” michael barbaro Today — speaker Sharon, here’s what I want you to excerpt. I want you to start on page four. Nick, I want you to start at the bottom of page eight. michael barbaro 448 pages, two years in the making. speaker That’s new. We didn’t know that. michael barbaro What we learned from the Mueller report. speaker 1 That quote is new. speaker 2 It’s a pretty good quote. michael barbaro It’s Friday, April 19. michael schmidt Michael, can you hear us? mark mazzetti Hey, Michael. michael barbaro Yeah. Hey, guys. michael schmidt Hey. mark mazzetti Hey. michael barbaro All right. Mike Schmidt, Mark Mazzetti, it’s 9:15 on Thursday night. You’ve both now spent about 10 hours reading the Mueller report. Tell me about this thing. michael schmidt It’s a breathtaking document. It’s over 400 pages of detailed insights and accounts of enormous issues we’ve been focused on over the past two years. It’s divided into, essentially, two halves — one for Russia, one for the president’s actions in office. michael barbaro In other words, collusion and obstruction. Those are the two buckets. mark mazzetti Right. The first half detailing the contact between Russians and Trump advisers isn’t enormously revealing, in the sense that we had already heard some weeks ago that there had not been a, quote, “criminal conspiracy” found by Mueller. At the same time, there’s an enormous amount of detail concluding that in the midst of this really historic effort by the Russians to sabotage the election — hacking and leaking of emails, social media manipulation, fake news — it says that the Trump campaign welcomed this. They saw a real benefit of what the Russians were doing, even if at the end of the day there wasn’t an active conspiracy. michael schmidt He’s essentially saying that they were interested, they sought out information about emails, they wanted to know more about how they could get their hands on these messages. They welcomed all this, but they never crossed the line into breaking the law. Just because they sought out the fruits of the Russian hack doesn’t mean that they were part of the crime. michael barbaro And just to be very clear, how is what you’re describing, collectively, not collusion? mark mazzetti Well, I think we need to be careful, because the attorney general said that there was no collusion. And the president said there was no collusion. But the Mueller report is more nuanced. And the Mueller report says, you know, this “collusion” word doesn’t really mean anything to us. There’s no legal standard of collusion. So what we’re going to look at is what is a crime, and that is conspiracy. And that’s what we have to judge all of this voluminous evidence against. And they said that a conspiracy is two parties acting together in concert to break the law. And what Mueller is very clear about is that there is, quote, “insufficient evidence” of a conspiracy. He is not saying there was nothing. He is not saying full exoneration. But he’s saying there is insufficient evidence to meet the standard that he had established of a criminal conspiracy breaking the law. michael barbaro And what would Mueller have needed to see for this to add up to conspiracy? michael schmidt That would have looked like a conversation between the Trump campaign and the Russians where the Trump campaign was saying, hey guys, can you go break into the D.N.C. and steal some emails so we can then get them out and embarrass the Democrats and help us politically during the campaign? That would have gotten you down the conspiracy path. And they did not find that. michael barbaro O.K. So let’s talk about obstruction. Mike, last time we talked, a couple weeks back, Mueller had sent his report to Barr. And Barr had sent a summary of that report to Congress in advance of this full report. And the most confusing thing about that summary was that Mueller had not made a call on whether the evidence added up to obstruction of justice. michael schmidt And today, we get to see what Mueller’s explanation is for why he didn’t make a determination on whether the president broke the law. And it’s not clear-cut. What it essentially is is that the president, under Justice Department policy, cannot be indicted. And because the president cannot be indicted, it’s unfair to accuse him while he’s in office of breaking the law, because there’s no way for him to go to court to defend himself. So, dear American public, Mueller essentially says, I am not going to make a determination on that issue. That could be made after the president leaves office. But for now, that would be unfair. So what I will do is I will lay out for you what I found, what the potential obstruction was, why it may be illegal. And after the president leaves office, the Justice Department could make a determination that he indeed broke the law and bring a case. And at the end of explaining why a determination was not made, Mueller says, if we had confidence after a thorough investigation of the facts that the president clearly did not commit obstruction of justice, we would so state. Based on the facts and the applicable legal standards, however, we are unable to reach that judgment. So Mueller is basically saying, if we felt comfortable that the president had done nothing wrong, we would tell you. And we are not telling you that. michael barbaro Well, Mike, you mentioned the incidents that he was not going to use as a basis for charging the president, because he felt he couldn’t charge the president. What were those that he laid out in the report? michael schmidt Well, there’s about a dozen. And they follow in chronological order how Trump misled the public about his relationship with Russia, misled the public about his knowledge that Russia was behind the hacks. And as the presidency goes on and Mueller is appointed in May of 2017, right after he takes office, the president starts to sort of lose his grip as he tries to maintain control of the investigation. He was intent on using his power as the head of the executive branch to protect himself and use the tools at his disposal — the people running the Justice Department, the F.B.I., the intelligence community — to help protect him from this investigation. michael barbaro And what are some examples of that — specifics? michael schmidt Well, a lot of them are ones that we know well. The firing of James Comey. His efforts to get his attorney general, Jeff Sessions, to un-recuse himself from the Russia investigation, essentially reassert his control over something that he has stepped aside from because he has a conflict of interest. And when the president can’t get that done, he basically tries to get rid of Sessions and install a loyalist atop the Justice Department. These are things that had been reported in the press. We get a fuller, richer picture of them. And we really see what the president was saying behind closed doors and the immense pressure he was putting on people to try and use the system to protect himself from the system. But then we learn about incidents that we knew little about, like how the president went completely outside of his administration in government to Corey Lewandowski, his first campaign manager. michael barbaro Mm-hmm. michael schmidt And he leaned on Corey in the summer of 2017 to try and pressure Sessions, his attorney general. So here’s the president of the United States using someone who doesn’t even work for him to get to Sessions and try and get Sessions out there publicly to help clear Trump’s name. It’s just a remarkable way of using presidential power. michael barbaro Which suggests that the president was meeting resistance within his own administration, and therefore reached out to somebody who didn’t even work for the government to try to get him to achieve this end. michael schmidt I don’t think many in the public will want to hold up the president’s aides as heroes, and a lot of them are probably not. But there is a picture here of folks that stopped the president time and time again and thwarted him from doing things that may have actually gotten him into trouble, that may have crossed that line, that may have made a stronger argument for Mueller about why the president did obstruct justice. One of the most detailed ones is on Trump’s efforts to get rid of Mueller and how his White House counsel would not do that. He would not call the Justice Department on the president’s behalf and say Mueller has to be removed for what the White House counsel, Don McGahn, thought were some bogus reasons Trump had cooked up about why he didn’t like Mueller. And in the document, as Mueller is recounting what happened in this incident, there are Nixonian echoes. It says, on June 17, 2017, the president called McGahn at home and directed him to call the acting attorney general and say that the special counsel had conflicts of interest and must be removed. McGahn did not carry out the direction, however, deciding that he would resign rather than trigger what he regarded as a potential “Saturday Night Massacre” — a reference to when Richard Nixon fired the special counsel who was investigating him. michael barbaro I recognize that this question is a little bit meta, but if getting rid of Mueller had meant that the report was never completed, wouldn’t that have finally been obstruction of justice? Because, literally, an investigation was obstructed. mark mazzetti There does seem to be a determination here about the success of the president’s efforts, or lack of success — that the fact that the Mueller investigation continued and finished means there is less of a case that the president obstructed justice. If there had been more of a Nixonian moment, where there was an 18-minute gap in tapes that were deliberately erased, that there was some tangible thing that had happened that had meant that prosecutors couldn’t get to the truth, there might possibly have been a different judgment and a different outcome. michael barbaro Right. I keep thinking of that 18-minute deletion when I think about Don McGahn. It’s as if nobody had ever said to Nixon what Don McGahn had said to President Trump — no, I’m not going to delete that tape. Sorry. But that’s what Don McGahn did to the president. That’s what happened with Trump over and over again. mark mazzetti Because everyone has seen “All the President’s Men,” and they know what happens. And, you know, you don’t want to be the guy who carries out the “Saturday Night Massacre.” michael barbaro So the president really has these people around him to thank, in a lot of ways. michael schmidt At the end of the day, there were these folks that were not going to go that extra inch and go over the line for him. And it looks like those measures probably saved him. mark mazzetti I mean, Mueller lays this point out explicitly. This is a quote from the report. “The president’s efforts to influence the investigation were mostly unsuccessful. But that is largely because the persons who surrounded the president declined to carry out orders or cede to his requests. Comey did not end the investigation of Flynn, which ultimately resulted in Flynn’s prosecution and conviction for lying to the F.B.I. McGahn did not tell the acting attorney general that the special counsel must be removed, but was instead prepared to resign over the president’s order. Lewandowski and Dearborn did not deliver the president’s message to Sessions that he should confine the Russian investigation to future election meddling only. And McGahn refused to recede from his recollections about events surrounding the president’s direction to have the special counsel removed, despite the president’s multiple demands to do so.” michael barbaro Hmm. And Mike, before seeing this report, our understanding of why Mueller may not have reached a conclusion on obstruction of justice was that obstruction has a lot to do with intent. Why did the president take the actions that he took? What did we learn from the report about how Mueller might have been thinking about that? michael schmidt We learn that the president was intent on ending the investigation into himself, but it’s less clear about what was truly motivating him. michael barbaro I guess I don’t quite understand that. If his intent is to end the investigation, how is that not obstruction of justice? mark mazzetti This is the heart of this dispute right now. michael schmidt Yeah. mark mazzetti It’s a clash of two theories. I mean, Mueller’s team clearly indicated that the actions come up to the line of obstruction of justice — that the intent to end the investigation to preserve his presidency does, in fact, approach something that is criminal obstruction of justice, even if they did not make that determination. The rub here is that it is at odds with the theory of Robert Mueller’s boss, Attorney General Barr. He got the job of attorney general, some say, based on his theory that the president can’t really obstruct justice. Barr says, today, in his press conference — archived recording (william barr) President Trump faced an unprecedented situation. As he entered into office and sought to perform his responsibilities as president, federal agents and prosecutors were scrutinizing his conduct before and after taking office. mark mazzetti At the heart of a obstruction of justice investigation is whether that person has corrupt intent. And his determination is that the president didn’t. And in a way, this big debate over the intent of the president — Barr kind of goes out of his way today to fill in the blanks, to sort of say, well, let’s look at the president’s intent. archived recording (william barr) At the same time, there was relentless speculation in the news media about the president’s personal culpability. Yet, as he said from the beginning, there was, in fact, no collusion. mark mazzetti The president felt that this was consuming his presidency. archived recording (william barr) There is substantial evidence to show that the president was frustrated and angered by his sincere belief that the investigation was undermining his presidency, propelled by his political opponents, and fueled by illegal leaks. Nonetheless, the White House fully cooperated with the special counsel’s investigation. mark mazzetti Yeah. He wanted this thing over. So in a way, what was one of the things that was so extraordinary about Barr’s press conference was that he explains the president’s reasoning in a way that the president hasn’t himself. michael barbaro So Barr would say that trying to end the investigation to protect the presidency is not corrupt motive. In fact, in his telling, it’s arguably even important, maybe even a little bit noble. It’s in the best interest of the American people. michael schmidt Perhaps patriotic. michael barbaro Hmm. mark mazzetti So there’s this totally compelling moment in the middle of the report that paints a scene of the president being told that a special counsel had just been appointed. And I’ll quote directly from the report. “The president slumped back in his chair and said, ‘Oh, my God. This is terrible. This is the end of my presidency. I’m fucked.’ The president became angry and lambasted the attorney general for his decision to recuse from the investigation, stating, ‘How could you let this happen, Jeff?’ The president said the position of attorney general was his most important appointment, and that Sessions had, quote, ‘let him down,’ contrasting him with Eric Holder and Robert Kennedy. Sessions recalled that the president said to him, ‘You were supposed to protect me,’ or words to that effect. The president returned to the consequences of the appointment and said, ‘Everyone tells me if you get one of these independent counsels, it ruins your presidency. It takes years and years, and I won’t be able to do anything. This is the worst thing that ever happened to me.’” The way this passage reads is the president’s anger about the appointment of a special counsel comes mostly from the recognition that it’s going to imperil his presidency. It means nothing will get done. It means that he’s going to spend the rest of his term fighting it. It’s not because he’s worried that Robert Mueller might find something that will one day land Donald Trump in jail. That’s one reading of this passage that would bolster the argument made by the attorney general that the president faced this extraordinary situation. michael schmidt I don’t think that makes any sense. Or at least I don’t understand it. I don’t understand how the attorney general can say there’s no issue of an underlying crime here when Donald Trump is sitting there acknowledging the potential threat from the depth and breadth of a special counsel’s investigation. He knew at that point, in May of 2017, that he had had his personal lawyer, Michael Cohen, make hush money payments to women. Donald Trump was smart enough to know that a special counsel — like in Bill Clinton or any other presidency — rummages around on one issue and ends up on another. And what happens? Mueller finds these weird transactions. He refers it to another U.S. attorney’s office. And the president is ultimately in a completely separate investigation, named as an unindicted co-conspirator. michael barbaro Hmm. michael schmidt How is there not an underlying crime that Donald Trump was afraid about? In July of 2017, myself and two colleagues go into the Oval Office to interview the president. He says, if Mueller looks at my finances, it’s crossing a red line. So what were Trump’s motivations for getting rid of Mueller? Was he really worried about Russia? Or was he worried that, hey, if this guy rummages around on Russia, he’s going to find something else? Indeed, he did. michael barbaro So Mike, you’re saying that Barr’s argument — that the president is just protecting the presidency — doesn’t really hold up. Because we know for a fact that the president understood, at this point, that when he says, I’m effed, that he has these payments made in coordination with Michael Cohen to these women as hush money, which have nothing to do with the Russia investigation, but which obviously could be incredibly damaging to him, and maybe even criminal. michael schmidt Look, no one has questioned the president about this in a law enforcement setting. I don’t know exactly what the president’s intentions were, but the idea that there was no underlying criminality in Donald Trump’s life in May of 2017, when Mueller got appointed, is bogus. Because there was. Further, in December of 2017, there is a report out there that Mueller has subpoenaed the president’s bank records. michael barbaro Mm-hmm. michael schmidt Before the president’s lawyers are able to get the message to him that the report is wrong, he starts telling White House aides that Mueller has to go. michael barbaro Hmm. michael schmidt I do think there’s a decent case to be made that there were underlying issues of criminality within his life. The Justice Department has said that itself. michael barbaro O.K. So regardless of the president’s intent, is it important whether or not he was successful in impeding this investigation, in thinking about the question of obstruction of justice? michael schmidt Well, I think for the folks at the Justice Department who had to make the call about whether the president broke the law, one of the factors that played into their declination decision was the fact that when you looked at the investigation, the efforts that the president took did not significantly damage the inquiry. michael barbaro Right. michael schmidt Despite the president’s best efforts, he was not very good at obstructing justice. michael barbaro Right. The existence of the Mueller report today suggests that the investigation did not get obstructed. michael schmidt Despite all of Donald Trump’s huffing and puffing and trying to get this person to do this and this person to do that, Bob Mueller moved ahead unimpeded for two years, finished his investigation, and the entire country got to see the fruits of it. Show us where the obstruction is, is what the president’s defenders would say. [music]  michael barbaro We’ll be right back. So finally, I want to talk about Bill Barr’s role in all this. Because the position of many Democrats today was that Barr — in reaching a decision on obstruction of justice where Mueller did not, in holding a press conference ahead of the report’s release seeming to defend the president, all taken together — has undermined any credibility that he had, and that Democrats and the country need to see for themselves what Mueller had found. How are you thinking about Barr in this moment, having now spent time with the Mueller report? mark mazzetti I mean, the one thing is clear is that this has been a lot of red meat for Democrats in Congress to keep investigating. And one of the things that they’re going to keep investigating is Barr’s role in this entire process. They are going to try to get him up to testify. They are going to try to get more underlying documents in the Mueller investigation. They now see Barr as a clear target for them. I think a lot of people, because of all these actions, have a much different picture of the attorney general than they did a month or two ago. michael barbaro And they’re going to try to understand the differences between what Bob Mueller thinks about all this — the supposedly nonpartisan figure — and what Bill Barr thinks about this — the presidential appointee whose allegiances are clearly closer to the president. michael schmidt There’s one answer to this. And that is that after this entire investigation in which Bob Mueller has said nothing publicly, including today, when there was a press conference held to talk about his report, we need to hear from Bob Mueller. We need for him to explain to us more how they came to this determination that they couldn’t say whether the president violated the law or not. Does Mueller think that Barr has misrepresented some of his findings? What was his relationship with the Justice Department? Did he believe that Congress should deal with this issue and that Barr shouldn’t have made a call on whether the president violated the law? We need to hear from Mueller. We have never heard his voice in the past two years. michael barbaro So inadvertently, in seeming to protect the president and not be representing Mueller, Bill Barr may be extending Democrats’ interest in this investigation and the trouble for the president. mark mazzetti Absolutely. If you look back at what Barr has done in the last month, this could have turned out differently for him — if he had put out the report immediately after the letter or as soon after the letter as he could have, if he had characterized the report differently in that four-page letter, and if he hadn’t had a press conference on the day of the release before anyone had seen the report that had this appearance of trying to spin it for the president and protect the president. That seems to have created more problems both for Barr and the president than if they had just released the report. michael barbaro Mark, thank you very much. Mike, thank you very much. mark mazzetti Thank you. michael schmidt Thanks for having us. [music]  michael barbaro “The Daily” is made by Theo Balcomb, Andy Mills, Lisa Tobin, Rachel Quester, Lynsea Garrison, Annie Brown, Clare Toeniskoetter, Paige Cowett, Michael Simon Johnson, Brad Fisher, Larissa Anderson, Wendy Dorr, Chris Wood, Jessica Cheung, Alexandra Leigh Young, Jonathan Wolfe, Lisa Chow, Eric Krupke and Marc Georges. Our theme music is by Jim Brunberg and Ben Landsverk of Wonderly. Special thanks to Sam Dolnick, Mikayla Bouchard, Stella Tan, Julia Simon and Samantha Henig. That’s it for “The Daily.” I’m Michael Barbaro. See you on Monday. Immediately after learning that a special counsel had been appointed to lead the Russia investigation, the report said, Mr. Trump became distraught and slumped in his chair. “Oh, my God. This is terrible,” he said. “This is the end of my presidency. I’m fucked.” Mr. Trump had long denounced the inquiry as a politically motivated “witch hunt.” But since it began, a half-dozen former Trump aides have been indicted or convicted of crimes, most of them for lying to Congress or federal investigators. Last month’s release of Mr. Mueller’s primary conclusions seemed to blunt any momentum on Capitol Hill to initiate impeachment proceedings against Mr. Trump, and it appeared unlikely then that the far more detailed accounting of the special counsel’s work would change that dynamic. But on Thursday, top Democratic lawmakers seized on the report’s findings and suggested that the issue of impeachment was not settled. At the very least, Mr. Mueller’s report seems certain to give Democratic lawmakers — and the many Democratic presidential candidates — ample political fodder for attacks on the president until he stands for re-election late next year. The release is the culmination of an investigation that consumed the national political conversation for nearly two years and was freighted with the outsize expectations of Mr. Trump’s most fervent critics. Mr. Mueller achieved a cult status among some Americans obsessed with the prospect that he might deliver a report that would put the Trump presidency in jeopardy — an image fueled by his general refusal to give public signals about the direction of his investigation. Mr. Mueller and his staff seemed monkish and enigmatic, choosing to speak only in court appearances and highly detailed indictments of Russian intelligence operatives or some of the president’s advisers. Some Americans invested so much hope in the Mueller investigation that they made plans to hold rallies in predetermined locations if Mr. Trump fired the special counsel and terminated the investigation. He never did. The Mueller investigation began in May 2017, but its origins go back nearly a year earlier. The F.B.I. opened the original inquiry into possible ties between the Trump campaign and Russia on July 31, 2016, in the midst of a heated presidential election contest that, the world now knows, Moscow made a concerted effort to sabotage. That summer saw WikiLeaks release thousands of hacked emails meant to cripple Mrs. Clinton’s candidacy, and American intelligence and law enforcement officials saw other ominous signs of Russian attempts to subvert the election. Determining the scope of the Russian interference campaign was a centerpiece of the Mueller investigation, and will most likely be one of its enduring legacies. His report leaves no doubt that it was the Russian government that orchestrated the effort, and that many of Mr. Trump’s aides welcomed it — even if they did not actively coordinate with Moscow. At the very least, in the face of a Russian intelligence effort to make contact with Mr. Trump’s advisers, none of the advisers thought to contact the F.B.I. More than two years of criminal indictments and steady revelations about Trump campaign contacts with Russians reveal the scope of the special counsel investigation. When Mr. Mueller began his work, there were still prominent voices at both ends of the political spectrum openly debating whether the hacking and leaking of emails — and the fake news that spread like a wildfire on social media in the months before the election — was the work of Russia, China, stateless hackers or, as Mr. Trump once liked to say, “someone sitting on their bed that weighs 400 pounds.” Even last summer, standing next to President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia after a summit meeting in Finland, Mr. Trump refused to accept that the Russians had carried out the election sabotage. Now, the voices of doubt have mostly been silenced, in part because of two indictments Mr. Mueller secured last year against a total of 25 Russian military intelligence operatives and experts in social media manipulation. The indictments gave exquisite details about the entirety of the Russian operation — how Russians paid unsuspecting Americans to stage pro-Trump rallies in battleground states, how Russian hackers penetrated the personal email account of Mrs. Clinton’s campaign chairman and how a pair of Russian women took a scouting trip to the United States two years before the election to gather information for the planned assault. Just weeks into his presidency, Mr. Trump declared there had been no meetings or other communications during the campaign between his advisers and Russians or other Kremlin intermediaries. A parade of news media reports followed saying otherwise — reports that the White House denounced at the time as false but that Mr. Mueller’s report showed to be accurate. One of the most significant was a June 2016 meeting at Trump Tower set up by Donald Trump Jr., the president’s eldest son, and a group of Russians who had promised political dirt about Mrs. Clinton. When The New York Times revealed the meeting a year later, there was a frenzied effort by the president’s aides to mislead the public about its purpose — including putting out a news release that the meeting had primarily been about a Russian adoption program. The report stated that Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer “repeatedly and inaccurately denied that the president played any role in drafting Trump Jr.’s statement,” and that the special counsel investigated whether that meeting violated campaign finance laws. Mr. Mueller’s team found that the evidence was “not sufficient.” Some of the meetings with Russians were a mélange of business and politics, and Mr. Mueller’s prosecutors wrapped up their inquiry still puzzled about their purpose. In December 2016, for instance, the head of a Russian bank under sanctions met in New York with Jared Kushner, the president’s son-in law and senior adviser. Mr. Kushner told the special counsel it was a diplomatic meeting with a person close to Mr. Putin set to discuss the future of relations between the United States and Russia. The Russian banker, Sergey N. Gorkov, has given a different account of the meeting’s purpose: to sit down with Mr. Kushner, the scion of a New York real estate empire, for business purposes. In the end, the special counsel’s team “did not resolve the apparent conflicts in the accounts,” according to the report. Mr. Trump declared victory last month when Mr. Barr sent the four-page letter to Congress outlining the investigation’s main conclusions. “After three years of lies and smears and slander, the Russia hoax is finally dead,” Mr. Trump told thousands of his supporters at a Michigan rally days after Mr. Barr’s letter was made public. “Robert Mueller was a god to the Democrats. He was a god to them until he said ‘no collusion.’ They don’t like him so much now.” Even so, the revelations in Mr. Barr’s letter did not produce a noticeable bump in Mr. Trump’s approval rating, and polls taken in the weeks since Mr. Barr’s letter have shown that many Americans were reserving judgment until they had a fuller picture of Mr. Mueller’s conclusions. Other Americans made up their minds long ago, and it is unclear what the effect will be of the release of hundreds of pages of investigative conclusions by a team of seasoned prosecutors. Those already convinced that the investigation was a witch hunt, and those already convinced that Mr. Trump conspired with Russia to win the presidency, are unlikely to be moved by the conclusions of Mr. Mueller and his team. Mr. Mueller’s byzantine investigation amassed information from thousands of subpoenas, hundreds of search warrants and evidence turned over from more than a dozen foreign governments. The report released on Thursday revealed that his team of prosecutors had found enough evidence of potential crimes to make 14 different criminal referrals to other federal prosecutors. So far, only two of those have officially been made public.   

Supported by By Mark Mazzetti WASHINGTON — Robert S. Mueller III revealed the scope of a historic Russian campaign to sabotage the 2016 presidential election in a much-anticipated report made public on Thursday, and he detailed a frantic monthslong effort by President Trump to thwart a federal investigation that imperiled his presidency from the start. Mr. Mueller, the special counsel, laid out how his team of prosecutors wrestled with whether Mr. Trump’s actions added up to a criminal obstruction-of-justice offense. They ultimately chose not to charge Mr. Trump, citing numerous legal and factual constraints, but pointedly declined to exonerate him and suggested that it might be the role of Congress to settle the matter. The report laid bare that Mr. Trump was elected with the help of a foreign power, and cataloged numerous meetings between Mr. Trump’s advisers and Russians seeking to influence the campaign and the presidential transition team — encounters set up in pursuit of business deals, policy initiatives and political dirt about Hillary Clinton, the Democratic candidate for president. The special counsel concluded that there was “insufficient evidence” to determine that the president or his aides had engaged in a criminal conspiracy with the Russians, even though the Trump campaign welcomed the Kremlin sabotage effort and “expected it would benefit electorally” from the hacks and leaks of Democratic emails. Then, after federal investigators opened an inquiry into the extraordinary Russian campaign, the president repeatedly tried to undermine it. “If we had confidence after a thorough investigation of the facts that the president clearly did not commit obstruction of justice, we would so state,” Mr. Mueller’s investigators wrote. “Based on the facts and the applicable legal standards, however, we are unable to reach that judgment.” Fevered speculation, now put to rest, arose in some circles that Mr. Trump and his immediate family might be in legal peril from Mr. Mueller’s investigation. At the same time, the report offered reams of evidence of a climate of deceit — and a base impulse for self-preservation — among a president and his top aides not seen since the days of Richard M. Nixon. That impulse prompted some presidential advisers to try to block Mr. Trump’s demands that they take steps to protect him from federal investigators. Some feared getting wrapped up in the widening inquiry. The findings from the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, are now available to the public. The redacted report details his two-year investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election. “The president’s efforts to influence the investigation were mostly unsuccessful, but that is largely because the persons who surrounded the president declined to carry out orders or accede to his requests,” the report said. The special counsel found that Mr. Trump had the authority to make many of his most controversial decisions, including the firing of James B. Comey as the F.B.I. director, by virtue of the powers the Constitution grants him. At the same time, it is a far more damning portrayal of his behavior than the one presented last month in a four-page letter released by Attorney General William P. Barr. “The incidents were often carried out through one-on-one meetings in which the president sought to use his official power outside of usual channels,” the report said. “These actions ranged from efforts to remove the special counsel and to reverse the effect of the attorney general’s recusal; to the attempted use of official power to limit the scope of the investigation; to direct and indirect contacts with witnesses with the potential to influence their testimony. Viewing the acts collectively can help to illuminate their significance.” In his letter, Mr. Barr announced that while Mr. Mueller had made no judgment about whether Mr. Trump had obstructed justice, he had stepped in to decide that the president had not. Mr. Barr defended his decision in a news conference on Thursday and said that some of the president’s actions were understandable given the “context” of his situation. “There is substantial evidence to show that the president was frustrated and angered by a sincere belief that the investigation was undermining his presidency, propelled by his political opponents and fueled by illegal leaks,” Mr. Barr said. The Mueller report is a sometimes gripping account of a presidency consumed by a sprawling investigation, and of a president seized by paranoia about what it might unearth. transcript Hosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Rachel Quester, Theo Balcomb and Paige Cowett, and edited by Lisa Tobin We dig into the highly anticipated findings of the special counsel’s two-year investigation. speaker It’s up. All right. It’s up. The report’s up. Sorry. [interposing voices]  [music]  michael barbaro From The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” speaker O.K. Mike? mike Yeah. speaker I want you to start on page 215 — “factual results of the obstruction investigation.” michael barbaro Today — speaker Sharon, here’s what I want you to excerpt. I want you to start on page four. Nick, I want you to start at the bottom of page eight. michael barbaro 448 pages, two years in the making. speaker That’s new. We didn’t know that. michael barbaro What we learned from the Mueller report. speaker 1 That quote is new. speaker 2 It’s a pretty good quote. michael barbaro It’s Friday, April 19. michael schmidt Michael, can you hear us? mark mazzetti Hey, Michael. michael barbaro Yeah. Hey, guys. michael schmidt Hey. mark mazzetti Hey. michael barbaro All right. Mike Schmidt, Mark Mazzetti, it’s 9:15 on Thursday night. You’ve both now spent about 10 hours reading the Mueller report. Tell me about this thing. michael schmidt It’s a breathtaking document. It’s over 400 pages of detailed insights and accounts of enormous issues we’ve been focused on over the past two years. It’s divided into, essentially, two halves — one for Russia, one for the president’s actions in office. michael barbaro In other words, collusion and obstruction. Those are the two buckets. mark mazzetti Right. The first half detailing the contact between Russians and Trump advisers isn’t enormously revealing, in the sense that we had already heard some weeks ago that there had not been a, quote, “criminal conspiracy” found by Mueller. At the same time, there’s an enormous amount of detail concluding that in the midst of this really historic effort by the Russians to sabotage the election — hacking and leaking of emails, social media manipulation, fake news — it says that the Trump campaign welcomed this. They saw a real benefit of what the Russians were doing, even if at the end of the day there wasn’t an active conspiracy. michael schmidt He’s essentially saying that they were interested, they sought out information about emails, they wanted to know more about how they could get their hands on these messages. They welcomed all this, but they never crossed the line into breaking the law. Just because they sought out the fruits of the Russian hack doesn’t mean that they were part of the crime. michael barbaro And just to be very clear, how is what you’re describing, collectively, not collusion? mark mazzetti Well, I think we need to be careful, because the attorney general said that there was no collusion. And the president said there was no collusion. But the Mueller report is more nuanced. And the Mueller report says, you know, this “collusion” word doesn’t really mean anything to us. There’s no legal standard of collusion. So what we’re going to look at is what is a crime, and that is conspiracy. And that’s what we have to judge all of this voluminous evidence against. And they said that a conspiracy is two parties acting together in concert to break the law. And what Mueller is very clear about is that there is, quote, “insufficient evidence” of a conspiracy. He is not saying there was nothing. He is not saying full exoneration. But he’s saying there is insufficient evidence to meet the standard that he had established of a criminal conspiracy breaking the law. michael barbaro And what would Mueller have needed to see for this to add up to conspiracy? michael schmidt That would have looked like a conversation between the Trump campaign and the Russians where the Trump campaign was saying, hey guys, can you go break into the D.N.C. and steal some emails so we can then get them out and embarrass the Democrats and help us politically during the campaign? That would have gotten you down the conspiracy path. And they did not find that. michael barbaro O.K. So let’s talk about obstruction. Mike, last time we talked, a couple weeks back, Mueller had sent his report to Barr. And Barr had sent a summary of that report to Congress in advance of this full report. And the most confusing thing about that summary was that Mueller had not made a call on whether the evidence added up to obstruction of justice. michael schmidt And today, we get to see what Mueller’s explanation is for why he didn’t make a determination on whether the president broke the law. And it’s not clear-cut. What it essentially is is that the president, under Justice Department policy, cannot be indicted. And because the president cannot be indicted, it’s unfair to accuse him while he’s in office of breaking the law, because there’s no way for him to go to court to defend himself. So, dear American public, Mueller essentially says, I am not going to make a determination on that issue. That could be made after the president leaves office. But for now, that would be unfair. So what I will do is I will lay out for you what I found, what the potential obstruction was, why it may be illegal. And after the president leaves office, the Justice Department could make a determination that he indeed broke the law and bring a case. And at the end of explaining why a determination was not made, Mueller says, if we had confidence after a thorough investigation of the facts that the president clearly did not commit obstruction of justice, we would so state. Based on the facts and the applicable legal standards, however, we are unable to reach that judgment. So Mueller is basically saying, if we felt comfortable that the president had done nothing wrong, we would tell you. And we are not telling you that. michael barbaro Well, Mike, you mentioned the incidents that he was not going to use as a basis for charging the president, because he felt he couldn’t charge the president. What were those that he laid out in the report? michael schmidt Well, there’s about a dozen. And they follow in chronological order how Trump misled the public about his relationship with Russia, misled the public about his knowledge that Russia was behind the hacks. And as the presidency goes on and Mueller is appointed in May of 2017, right after he takes office, the president starts to sort of lose his grip as he tries to maintain control of the investigation. He was intent on using his power as the head of the executive branch to protect himself and use the tools at his disposal — the people running the Justice Department, the F.B.I., the intelligence community — to help protect him from this investigation. michael barbaro And what are some examples of that — specifics? michael schmidt Well, a lot of them are ones that we know well. The firing of James Comey. His efforts to get his attorney general, Jeff Sessions, to un-recuse himself from the Russia investigation, essentially reassert his control over something that he has stepped aside from because he has a conflict of interest. And when the president can’t get that done, he basically tries to get rid of Sessions and install a loyalist atop the Justice Department. These are things that had been reported in the press. We get a fuller, richer picture of them. And we really see what the president was saying behind closed doors and the immense pressure he was putting on people to try and use the system to protect himself from the system. But then we learn about incidents that we knew little about, like how the president went completely outside of his administration in government to Corey Lewandowski, his first campaign manager. michael barbaro Mm-hmm. michael schmidt And he leaned on Corey in the summer of 2017 to try and pressure Sessions, his attorney general. So here’s the president of the United States using someone who doesn’t even work for him to get to Sessions and try and get Sessions out there publicly to help clear Trump’s name. It’s just a remarkable way of using presidential power. michael barbaro Which suggests that the president was meeting resistance within his own administration, and therefore reached out to somebody who didn’t even work for the government to try to get him to achieve this end. michael schmidt I don’t think many in the public will want to hold up the president’s aides as heroes, and a lot of them are probably not. But there is a picture here of folks that stopped the president time and time again and thwarted him from doing things that may have actually gotten him into trouble, that may have crossed that line, that may have made a stronger argument for Mueller about why the president did obstruct justice. One of the most detailed ones is on Trump’s efforts to get rid of Mueller and how his White House counsel would not do that. He would not call the Justice Department on the president’s behalf and say Mueller has to be removed for what the White House counsel, Don McGahn, thought were some bogus reasons Trump had cooked up about why he didn’t like Mueller. And in the document, as Mueller is recounting what happened in this incident, there are Nixonian echoes. It says, on June 17, 2017, the president called McGahn at home and directed him to call the acting attorney general and say that the special counsel had conflicts of interest and must be removed. McGahn did not carry out the direction, however, deciding that he would resign rather than trigger what he regarded as a potential “Saturday Night Massacre” — a reference to when Richard Nixon fired the special counsel who was investigating him. michael barbaro I recognize that this question is a little bit meta, but if getting rid of Mueller had meant that the report was never completed, wouldn’t that have finally been obstruction of justice? Because, literally, an investigation was obstructed. mark mazzetti There does seem to be a determination here about the success of the president’s efforts, or lack of success — that the fact that the Mueller investigation continued and finished means there is less of a case that the president obstructed justice. If there had been more of a Nixonian moment, where there was an 18-minute gap in tapes that were deliberately erased, that there was some tangible thing that had happened that had meant that prosecutors couldn’t get to the truth, there might possibly have been a different judgment and a different outcome. michael barbaro Right. I keep thinking of that 18-minute deletion when I think about Don McGahn. It’s as if nobody had ever said to Nixon what Don McGahn had said to President Trump — no, I’m not going to delete that tape. Sorry. But that’s what Don McGahn did to the president. That’s what happened with Trump over and over again. mark mazzetti Because everyone has seen “All the President’s Men,” and they know what happens. And, you know, you don’t want to be the guy who carries out the “Saturday Night Massacre.” michael barbaro So the president really has these people around him to thank, in a lot of ways. michael schmidt At the end of the day, there were these folks that were not going to go that extra inch and go over the line for him. And it looks like those measures probably saved him. mark mazzetti I mean, Mueller lays this point out explicitly. This is a quote from the report. “The president’s efforts to influence the investigation were mostly unsuccessful. But that is largely because the persons who surrounded the president declined to carry out orders or cede to his requests. Comey did not end the investigation of Flynn, which ultimately resulted in Flynn’s prosecution and conviction for lying to the F.B.I. McGahn did not tell the acting attorney general that the special counsel must be removed, but was instead prepared to resign over the president’s order. Lewandowski and Dearborn did not deliver the president’s message to Sessions that he should confine the Russian investigation to future election meddling only. And McGahn refused to recede from his recollections about events surrounding the president’s direction to have the special counsel removed, despite the president’s multiple demands to do so.” michael barbaro Hmm. And Mike, before seeing this report, our understanding of why Mueller may not have reached a conclusion on obstruction of justice was that obstruction has a lot to do with intent. Why did the president take the actions that he took? What did we learn from the report about how Mueller might have been thinking about that? michael schmidt We learn that the president was intent on ending the investigation into himself, but it’s less clear about what was truly motivating him. michael barbaro I guess I don’t quite understand that. If his intent is to end the investigation, how is that not obstruction of justice? mark mazzetti This is the heart of this dispute right now. michael schmidt Yeah. mark mazzetti It’s a clash of two theories. I mean, Mueller’s team clearly indicated that the actions come up to the line of obstruction of justice — that the intent to end the investigation to preserve his presidency does, in fact, approach something that is criminal obstruction of justice, even if they did not make that determination. The rub here is that it is at odds with the theory of Robert Mueller’s boss, Attorney General Barr. He got the job of attorney general, some say, based on his theory that the president can’t really obstruct justice. Barr says, today, in his press conference — archived recording (william barr) President Trump faced an unprecedented situation. As he entered into office and sought to perform his responsibilities as president, federal agents and prosecutors were scrutinizing his conduct before and after taking office. mark mazzetti At the heart of a obstruction of justice investigation is whether that person has corrupt intent. And his determination is that the president didn’t. And in a way, this big debate over the intent of the president — Barr kind of goes out of his way today to fill in the blanks, to sort of say, well, let’s look at the president’s intent. archived recording (william barr) At the same time, there was relentless speculation in the news media about the president’s personal culpability. Yet, as he said from the beginning, there was, in fact, no collusion. mark mazzetti The president felt that this was consuming his presidency. archived recording (william barr) There is substantial evidence to show that the president was frustrated and angered by his sincere belief that the investigation was undermining his presidency, propelled by his political opponents, and fueled by illegal leaks. Nonetheless, the White House fully cooperated with the special counsel’s investigation. mark mazzetti Yeah. He wanted this thing over. So in a way, what was one of the things that was so extraordinary about Barr’s press conference was that he explains the president’s reasoning in a way that the president hasn’t himself. michael barbaro So Barr would say that trying to end the investigation to protect the presidency is not corrupt motive. In fact, in his telling, it’s arguably even important, maybe even a little bit noble. It’s in the best interest of the American people. michael schmidt Perhaps patriotic. michael barbaro Hmm. mark mazzetti So there’s this totally compelling moment in the middle of the report that paints a scene of the president being told that a special counsel had just been appointed. And I’ll quote directly from the report. “The president slumped back in his chair and said, ‘Oh, my God. This is terrible. This is the end of my presidency. I’m fucked.’ The president became angry and lambasted the attorney general for his decision to recuse from the investigation, stating, ‘How could you let this happen, Jeff?’ The president said the position of attorney general was his most important appointment, and that Sessions had, quote, ‘let him down,’ contrasting him with Eric Holder and Robert Kennedy. Sessions recalled that the president said to him, ‘You were supposed to protect me,’ or words to that effect. The president returned to the consequences of the appointment and said, ‘Everyone tells me if you get one of these independent counsels, it ruins your presidency. It takes years and years, and I won’t be able to do anything. This is the worst thing that ever happened to me.’” The way this passage reads is the president’s anger about the appointment of a special counsel comes mostly from the recognition that it’s going to imperil his presidency. It means nothing will get done. It means that he’s going to spend the rest of his term fighting it. It’s not because he’s worried that Robert Mueller might find something that will one day land Donald Trump in jail. That’s one reading of this passage that would bolster the argument made by the attorney general that the president faced this extraordinary situation. michael schmidt I don’t think that makes any sense. Or at least I don’t understand it. I don’t understand how the attorney general can say there’s no issue of an underlying crime here when Donald Trump is sitting there acknowledging the potential threat from the depth and breadth of a special counsel’s investigation. He knew at that point, in May of 2017, that he had had his personal lawyer, Michael Cohen, make hush money payments to women. Donald Trump was smart enough to know that a special counsel — like in Bill Clinton or any other presidency — rummages around on one issue and ends up on another. And what happens? Mueller finds these weird transactions. He refers it to another U.S. attorney’s office. And the president is ultimately in a completely separate investigation, named as an unindicted co-conspirator. michael barbaro Hmm. michael schmidt How is there not an underlying crime that Donald Trump was afraid about? In July of 2017, myself and two colleagues go into the Oval Office to interview the president. He says, if Mueller looks at my finances, it’s crossing a red line. So what were Trump’s motivations for getting rid of Mueller? Was he really worried about Russia? Or was he worried that, hey, if this guy rummages around on Russia, he’s going to find something else? Indeed, he did. michael barbaro So Mike, you’re saying that Barr’s argument — that the president is just protecting the presidency — doesn’t really hold up. Because we know for a fact that the president understood, at this point, that when he says, I’m effed, that he has these payments made in coordination with Michael Cohen to these women as hush money, which have nothing to do with the Russia investigation, but which obviously could be incredibly damaging to him, and maybe even criminal. michael schmidt Look, no one has questioned the president about this in a law enforcement setting. I don’t know exactly what the president’s intentions were, but the idea that there was no underlying criminality in Donald Trump’s life in May of 2017, when Mueller got appointed, is bogus. Because there was. Further, in December of 2017, there is a report out there that Mueller has subpoenaed the president’s bank records. michael barbaro Mm-hmm. michael schmidt Before the president’s lawyers are able to get the message to him that the report is wrong, he starts telling White House aides that Mueller has to go. michael barbaro Hmm. michael schmidt I do think there’s a decent case to be made that there were underlying issues of criminality within his life. The Justice Department has said that itself. michael barbaro O.K. So regardless of the president’s intent, is it important whether or not he was successful in impeding this investigation, in thinking about the question of obstruction of justice? michael schmidt Well, I think for the folks at the Justice Department who had to make the call about whether the president broke the law, one of the factors that played into their declination decision was the fact that when you looked at the investigation, the efforts that the president took did not significantly damage the inquiry. michael barbaro Right. michael schmidt Despite the president’s best efforts, he was not very good at obstructing justice. michael barbaro Right. The existence of the Mueller report today suggests that the investigation did not get obstructed. michael schmidt Despite all of Donald Trump’s huffing and puffing and trying to get this person to do this and this person to do that, Bob Mueller moved ahead unimpeded for two years, finished his investigation, and the entire country got to see the fruits of it. Show us where the obstruction is, is what the president’s defenders would say. [music]  michael barbaro We’ll be right back. So finally, I want to talk about Bill Barr’s role in all this. Because the position of many Democrats today was that Barr — in reaching a decision on obstruction of justice where Mueller did not, in holding a press conference ahead of the report’s release seeming to defend the president, all taken together — has undermined any credibility that he had, and that Democrats and the country need to see for themselves what Mueller had found. How are you thinking about Barr in this moment, having now spent time with the Mueller report? mark mazzetti I mean, the one thing is clear is that this has been a lot of red meat for Democrats in Congress to keep investigating. And one of the things that they’re going to keep investigating is Barr’s role in this entire process. They are going to try to get him up to testify. They are going to try to get more underlying documents in the Mueller investigation. They now see Barr as a clear target for them. I think a lot of people, because of all these actions, have a much different picture of the attorney general than they did a month or two ago. michael barbaro And they’re going to try to understand the differences between what Bob Mueller thinks about all this — the supposedly nonpartisan figure — and what Bill Barr thinks about this — the presidential appointee whose allegiances are clearly closer to the president. michael schmidt There’s one answer to this. And that is that after this entire investigation in which Bob Mueller has said nothing publicly, including today, when there was a press conference held to talk about his report, we need to hear from Bob Mueller. We need for him to explain to us more how they came to this determination that they couldn’t say whether the president violated the law or not. Does Mueller think that Barr has misrepresented some of his findings? What was his relationship with the Justice Department? Did he believe that Congress should deal with this issue and that Barr shouldn’t have made a call on whether the president violated the law? We need to hear from Mueller. We have never heard his voice in the past two years. michael barbaro So inadvertently, in seeming to protect the president and not be representing Mueller, Bill Barr may be extending Democrats’ interest in this investigation and the trouble for the president. mark mazzetti Absolutely. If you look back at what Barr has done in the last month, this could have turned out differently for him — if he had put out the report immediately after the letter or as soon after the letter as he could have, if he had characterized the report differently in that four-page letter, and if he hadn’t had a press conference on the day of the release before anyone had seen the report that had this appearance of trying to spin it for the president and protect the president. That seems to have created more problems both for Barr and the president than if they had just released the report. michael barbaro Mark, thank you very much. Mike, thank you very much. mark mazzetti Thank you. michael schmidt Thanks for having us. [music]  michael barbaro “The Daily” is made by Theo Balcomb, Andy Mills, Lisa Tobin, Rachel Quester, Lynsea Garrison, Annie Brown, Clare Toeniskoetter, Paige Cowett, Michael Simon Johnson, Brad Fisher, Larissa Anderson, Wendy Dorr, Chris Wood, Jessica Cheung, Alexandra Leigh Young, Jonathan Wolfe, Lisa Chow, Eric Krupke and Marc Georges. Our theme music is by Jim Brunberg and Ben Landsverk of Wonderly. Special thanks to Sam Dolnick, Mikayla Bouchard, Stella Tan, Julia Simon and Samantha Henig. That’s it for “The Daily.” I’m Michael Barbaro. See you on Monday. Immediately after learning that a special counsel had been appointed to lead the Russia investigation, the report said, Mr. Trump became distraught and slumped in his chair. “Oh, my God. This is terrible,” he said. “This is the end of my presidency. I’m fucked.” Mr. Trump had long denounced the inquiry as a politically motivated “witch hunt.” But since it began, a half-dozen former Trump aides have been indicted or convicted of crimes, most of them for lying to Congress or federal investigators. Last month’s release of Mr. Mueller’s primary conclusions seemed to blunt any momentum on Capitol Hill to initiate impeachment proceedings against Mr. Trump, and it appeared unlikely then that the far more detailed accounting of the special counsel’s work would change that dynamic. But on Thursday, top Democratic lawmakers seized on the report’s findings and suggested that the issue of impeachment was not settled. At the very least, Mr. Mueller’s report seems certain to give Democratic lawmakers — and the many Democratic presidential candidates — ample political fodder for attacks on the president until he stands for re-election late next year. The release is the culmination of an investigation that consumed the national political conversation for nearly two years and was freighted with the outsize expectations of Mr. Trump’s most fervent critics. Mr. Mueller achieved a cult status among some Americans obsessed with the prospect that he might deliver a report that would put the Trump presidency in jeopardy — an image fueled by his general refusal to give public signals about the direction of his investigation. Mr. Mueller and his staff seemed monkish and enigmatic, choosing to speak only in court appearances and highly detailed indictments of Russian intelligence operatives or some of the president’s advisers. Some Americans invested so much hope in the Mueller investigation that they made plans to hold rallies in predetermined locations if Mr. Trump fired the special counsel and terminated the investigation. He never did. The Mueller investigation began in May 2017, but its origins go back nearly a year earlier. The F.B.I. opened the original inquiry into possible ties between the Trump campaign and Russia on July 31, 2016, in the midst of a heated presidential election contest that, the world now knows, Moscow made a concerted effort to sabotage. That summer saw WikiLeaks release thousands of hacked emails meant to cripple Mrs. Clinton’s candidacy, and American intelligence and law enforcement officials saw other ominous signs of Russian attempts to subvert the election. Determining the scope of the Russian interference campaign was a centerpiece of the Mueller investigation, and will most likely be one of its enduring legacies. His report leaves no doubt that it was the Russian government that orchestrated the effort, and that many of Mr. Trump’s aides welcomed it — even if they did not actively coordinate with Moscow. At the very least, in the face of a Russian intelligence effort to make contact with Mr. Trump’s advisers, none of the advisers thought to contact the F.B.I. More than two years of criminal indictments and steady revelations about Trump campaign contacts with Russians reveal the scope of the special counsel investigation. When Mr. Mueller began his work, there were still prominent voices at both ends of the political spectrum openly debating whether the hacking and leaking of emails — and the fake news that spread like a wildfire on social media in the months before the election — was the work of Russia, China, stateless hackers or, as Mr. Trump once liked to say, “someone sitting on their bed that weighs 400 pounds.” Even last summer, standing next to President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia after a summit meeting in Finland, Mr. Trump refused to accept that the Russians had carried out the election sabotage. Now, the voices of doubt have mostly been silenced, in part because of two indictments Mr. Mueller secured last year against a total of 25 Russian military intelligence operatives and experts in social media manipulation. The indictments gave exquisite details about the entirety of the Russian operation — how Russians paid unsuspecting Americans to stage pro-Trump rallies in battleground states, how Russian hackers penetrated the personal email account of Mrs. Clinton’s campaign chairman and how a pair of Russian women took a scouting trip to the United States two years before the election to gather information for the planned assault. Just weeks into his presidency, Mr. Trump declared there had been no meetings or other communications during the campaign between his advisers and Russians or other Kremlin intermediaries. A parade of news media reports followed saying otherwise — reports that the White House denounced at the time as false but that Mr. Mueller’s report showed to be accurate. One of the most significant was a June 2016 meeting at Trump Tower set up by Donald Trump Jr., the president’s eldest son, and a group of Russians who had promised political dirt about Mrs. Clinton. When The New York Times revealed the meeting a year later, there was a frenzied effort by the president’s aides to mislead the public about its purpose — including putting out a news release that the meeting had primarily been about a Russian adoption program. The report stated that Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer “repeatedly and inaccurately denied that the president played any role in drafting Trump Jr.’s statement,” and that the special counsel investigated whether that meeting violated campaign finance laws. Mr. Mueller’s team found that the evidence was “not sufficient.” Some of the meetings with Russians were a mélange of business and politics, and Mr. Mueller’s prosecutors wrapped up their inquiry still puzzled about their purpose. In December 2016, for instance, the head of a Russian bank under sanctions met in New York with Jared Kushner, the president’s son-in law and senior adviser. Mr. Kushner told the special counsel it was a diplomatic meeting with a person close to Mr. Putin set to discuss the future of relations between the United States and Russia. The Russian banker, Sergey N. Gorkov, has given a different account of the meeting’s purpose: to sit down with Mr. Kushner, the scion of a New York real estate empire, for business purposes. In the end, the special counsel’s team “did not resolve the apparent conflicts in the accounts,” according to the report. Mr. Trump declared victory last month when Mr. Barr sent the four-page letter to Congress outlining the investigation’s main conclusions. “After three years of lies and smears and slander, the Russia hoax is finally dead,” Mr. Trump told thousands of his supporters at a Michigan rally days after Mr. Barr’s letter was made public. “Robert Mueller was a god to the Democrats. He was a god to them until he said ‘no collusion.’ They don’t like him so much now.” Even so, the revelations in Mr. Barr’s letter did not produce a noticeable bump in Mr. Trump’s approval rating, and polls taken in the weeks since Mr. Barr’s letter have shown that many Americans were reserving judgment until they had a fuller picture of Mr. Mueller’s conclusions. Other Americans made up their minds long ago, and it is unclear what the effect will be of the release of hundreds of pages of investigative conclusions by a team of seasoned prosecutors. Those already convinced that the investigation was a witch hunt, and those already convinced that Mr. Trump conspired with Russia to win the presidency, are unlikely to be moved by the conclusions of Mr. Mueller and his team. Mr. Mueller’s byzantine investigation amassed information from thousands of subpoenas, hundreds of search warrants and evidence turned over from more than a dozen foreign governments. The report released on Thursday revealed that his team of prosecutors had found enough evidence of potential crimes to make 14 different criminal referrals to other federal prosecutors. So far, only two of those have officially been made public.   Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — Attorney General William Barr will hold a news conference at 9:30 a.m. (1330 GMT) on Thursday to discuss the release of Special Counsel Robert Mueller's report on Russian interference in the 2016 U.S. presidential race, the Justice Department said on Wednesday. Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, who appointed Mueller as special counsel nearly two years ago, will also attend the news conference, the department said in a statement. President Donald Trump, who has repeatedly criticized the Mueller investigation as a "witch hunt," said in a radio interview on Wednesday he may hold a news conference after Barr. Mueller on March 22 submitted to Barr a nearly 400-page report on his 22-month investigation into whether the Trump campaign worked with Moscow to sway the election in his favor, and whether Trump committed obstruction of justice with actions to impede the inquiry. In a letter to lawmakers two days later, Barr said Mueller did not find that members of Trump's campaign engaged in a criminal conspiracy with Russia. Barr also said he determined there was not enough evidence to establish that Trump committed the crime of obstruction of justice, though Mueller did not exonerate Trump on obstruction.  (Reporting by Sarah N. Lynch; Writing by Eric Beech; Editing by David Alexander and Will Dunham)

Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — Attorney General William Barr will hold a news conference at 9:30 a.m. (1330 GMT) on Thursday to discuss the release of Special Counsel Robert Mueller's report on Russian interference in the 2016 U.S. presidential race, the Justice Department said on Wednesday. Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, who appointed Mueller as special counsel nearly two years ago, will also attend the news conference, the department said in a statement. President Donald Trump, who has repeatedly criticized the Mueller investigation as a "witch hunt," said in a radio interview on Wednesday he may hold a news conference after Barr. Mueller on March 22 submitted to Barr a nearly 400-page report on his 22-month investigation into whether the Trump campaign worked with Moscow to sway the election in his favor, and whether Trump committed obstruction of justice with actions to impede the inquiry. In a letter to lawmakers two days later, Barr said Mueller did not find that members of Trump's campaign engaged in a criminal conspiracy with Russia. Barr also said he determined there was not enough evidence to establish that Trump committed the crime of obstruction of justice, though Mueller did not exonerate Trump on obstruction.  (Reporting by Sarah N. Lynch; Writing by Eric Beech; Editing by David Alexander and Will Dunham)transcript Hosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Michael Simon Johnson and edited by Paige Cowett The special counsel came to no conclusion on whether President Trump illegally obstructed justice. The attorney general, a recent political appointee, stepped in. Tuesday, March 26th, 2019 michael barbaro From The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today: The special counsel was supposed to make the decision about whether President Trump committed a crime. Why did the attorney general do it instead? It’s Tuesday, March 26. Mike Schmidt, it has been 48 hours since the attorney general, Bill Barr, sent his summary of the special counsel’s report to congressional leaders. Where are you at in your thinking about all this? michael schmidt In a certain way, I’m starting to think that the special counsel regulations, the way that this investigation was set up, has failed. michael barbaro What do you mean failed? Do you mean, because this investigation didn’t produce criminal charges against the president? michael schmidt No, no, no. It’s not about that. It’s about the perception of politics in criminal decisions. Bob Mueller, the special counsel, operated under certain regulations that were designed to protect him and his investigation but also give the public assurances that investigators who were free of politics pursued the facts. In this case, there’s a perception problem. michael barbaro What do you mean by perception problem? michael schmidt The special counsel is supposed to go out, look into the issues that are in question — in this case, collusion and obstruction of justice — and no matter how hard the questions they are looking at are, make a determination about whether someone broke the law or not. archived recording 1 Because obviously, Mueller did not feel comfortable making a decision in either direction on obstruction. archived recording 2 Mueller said, you know what, I can’t decide. It’s up to you. michael schmidt In the case of the president, Mueller made no conclusion with respect to obstruction. archived recording 1 I would love to learn more about what was happening behind the scenes and why Mueller decided to punt. archived recording 2 Prosecutors get paid to make determinations. That’s what we do. michael schmidt So that meant that the special counsel, the person who had been put there to protect themselves from politics, had no determination. archived recording That’s not the job of the prosecutor. The job of the prosecutor is to decide yes or no. michael schmidt And that left it up to the political appointees, the attorney general and deputy attorney general, people who had been placed there by Donald Trump. archived recording Barr says he and the deputy attorney general, Rod Rosenstein, concluded that that conduct did not reach the threshold of a crime. michael barbaro So you’re saying that because Mueller punted the decision on obstruction of justice to Barr, and it was Barr who then cleared the president of that charge, the special counsel failed because there was no apolitical figure reaching a conclusion on one of the central questions of the investigation. michael schmidt Correct. Part of the reason the special counsel is there is to give the public the assurance that a investigator who’s not politically tied to the person under investigation is doing the work and following the facts. And in this case, that person, Mueller, said, I can’t come to a determination on this, and kicked it up to the folks above him who are the political appointees. By not reaching a conclusion, Mueller left the door open for Barr to come in and make a determination that he didn’t think there was enough to say the president broke the law. But Barr has another perception problem. michael barbaro What’s that? michael schmidt Back in 2018, Bill Barr, who had been the attorney general under George H. W. Bush and was now semi-retired, he, unprompted, wrote a memo that ended up in the hands of the Trump legal team that essentially said there is a very, very high bar for a president to be charged with obstruction of justice. And in that argument, he says that in order to prove obstruction, you also have to prove the underlying crime. In this case, collusion. So to make a case, you have to be able to establish both. michael barbaro And Barr writes this long before his attorney general. What is meaningful about that memo and that legal logic about obstruction of justice now? michael schmidt In the letter he sends to Congress this weekend in which he explains the decision on what they did with the president on obstruction, he says that one of the reasons that it’s so difficult to make this case is that they can’t show that the president was part of collusion. michael barbaro An underlying crime that would justify a charge of obstruction of justice. michael schmidt Correct. I actually want to — can I read from it? michael barbaro Yeah. michael schmidt In his letter, he said, quote, “In making this determination, we noted that the special counsel recognized that ‘the evidence does not establish that the president was involved in an underlying crime related to Russian election interference,’ and that, while not determinative, the absence of such evidence bears upon the president’s intent with respect to obstruction.” michael barbaro So just to translate that for us, what exactly is he saying? michael schmidt He’s saying that unless you can show that the president was trying to obstruct to cover up another crime, then the obstruction is sort of hollow. It doesn’t really resonate because there’s nothing really to cover up. michael barbaro So that is a clear echo to the original Barr memo from 2018 written to the Trump administration. And it sounds like what you’re saying is that because Barr wrote this memo before he was nominated as attorney general, the White House knew he held this position when it came to obstruction of justice. And the fact that it ended up being that legal interpretation that is used to help clear the president of wrongdoing when it comes to obstruction of justice — that starts to feel quite political. michael schmidt Here’s the problem. Barr may be right. He may have come to the correct conclusion based on the law and the fact. But because Mueller took a pass in this highly weird thing where he didn’t want to make a call about whether the president broke the law on obstruction, it ended up in Barr’s hands. And he looks like the ultimate and only decision maker. And he, because of politics, has perception issues on this decision. michael barbaro Well, let’s talk about the actual conclusion that Barr reached. What do you make, Mike, of his rationale? Is there a broad legal consensus around Barr’s argument here that obstruction of justice depends on an underlying crime? michael schmidt I think prosecutors would say that they don’t want to bring cases against folks who did not obstruct an actual criminal act. Legally, you could make the case, but most prosecutors wouldn’t want to because it’s not worth their time and energy to go after someone who is trying to cover up something that’s not criminal. michael barbaro Got it. michael schmidt But in this case, I would say that there were crimes that the president may have wanted to cover up. michael barbaro Hmm. Which ones? michael schmidt Well — archived recording Breaking news. President Trump’s former longtime attorney and fixer, Michael Cohen, pleading guilty to eight counts of campaign finance violation, including, and importantly, hush money payments to Stormy Daniels and Karen McDougal — hush money payments that Cohen said then-candidate Donald Trump directed. Cohen’s stunning words today, and I quote, “in coordination and at the direction of a candidate for federal office.” michael schmidt The president has been named essentially as an unindicted co-conspirator in Michael Cohen’s payments to women before the election for violating campaign finance. archived recording Prosecutors say the hush money payments Cohen made violate campaign finance laws. President Trump calls them a simple private transaction. michael schmidt Donald Trump knew about those payments in May, June, July of 2017. So if you’re the president and Bob Mueller comes along and you know that you made these payments, you think, well, if this thing really gets out of hand, I could have some problems. So in the summer of 2017 the president’s talking about trying to fire Mueller. archived recording Now, according to The New York Times and The Washington Post, the White House is laying the groundwork to try to discredit or undermine Mueller’s investigation. michael schmidt Why was he really talking about that? Was it because of Russia? Was it because it was simply a distraction? Or did he want to ensure that Mueller didn’t go too far into his personal finances? archived recording Multiple U.S. officials tell NBC News Mueller is gathering documents involving the financial records and businesses of dealings close to the Trump campaign, something the president says is a red line — a red line, except following the money is what Mueller does. michael schmidt Barr says, look, he had nothing to cover up on Russia, but his same Justice Department has essentially said he’s an unindicted co-conspirator in a campaign finance case. The Justice Department is looking at his inaugural committee — archived recording Putting all information related to inaugural donors, vendors, contractors, bank accounts. michael schmidt — and his businesses. And Mueller’s investigation has led to great embarrassment for the president. archived recording 1 President Trump’s former national security adviser Michael Flynn just hours away from finding out if he’ll go to prison for lying to the F.B.I. about his Russia contacts. archived recording 2 Also, breaking tonight, the president’s former campaign chairman, Paul Manafort, found guilty on eight counts. archived recording 3 Roger Stone, longtime Trump associate and adviser, was taken into custody by the F.B.I. michael schmidt Even though he was cleared on collusion, more than a handful of his advisors and associates have pled guilty to different charges. So was there really nothing to obstruct? michael barbaro So you’re saying that Barr’s rationale that there is no obstruction, because there were no crimes to obstruct, doesn’t really hold up, because there were crimes, they just weren’t the crimes of coordinating with Russia to influence the election? michael schmidt I’m saying that a day after Barr sent the letter, as we look at it, that’s another part of it that doesn’t make complete sense yet. michael barbaro Mike, is that one more way in which, by kicking the decision to Bill Barr, the special counsel put this in the political realm of interpretation by political actors in a political system that might have been better left to an independent figure as the special counsel rules envisioned? michael schmidt It means that instead of Mueller explaining the determination, Barr is doing it. And that just exposes the decision to the politics that Mueller was there to protect it from. And the head-scratching part of it is, so you went through this whole exercise of creating a special counsel. michael barbaro To be apolitical. michael schmidt To be apolitical. And in the end, the special counsel takes a pass, and it ends up right back in the hands of the political appointees. Well, why did you need a special counsel? michael barbaro Right. And to that point, I guess the question is, why did Robert Mueller kick this question of obstruction of justice to the attorney general knowing full well everything you just explained, that that would make whatever decision Barr made feel political and in violation of the spirit of having a special counsel? He arguably handed off his central job to a political appointee. michael schmidt Well, we don’t know, and we’re trying to find out. But here are two possibilities. Maybe, one, he didn’t want to box in Barr. He didn’t want to put him in a situation where he may appear to be disagreeing with the investigators. The second is that the legal issues around this are very difficult to unravel because it’s caught up in the unique position the president has as the head of the executive branch. And it may just be so hard to untangle them that Mueller kind of threw up his hands and said, this is a highly unusual situation. I’m going to let the Justice Department make the call. michael barbaro It’s interesting. You said that maybe Mueller doesn’t want to box in Bill Barr, but it feels like it also puts Barr in a very weird position, because Barr’s options are all about degrees of political once Mueller kicks the decision to him. If Barr makes a decision about obstruction, yes, that seems political. But if he sends Mueller’s findings along to Congress with an open-ended question of whether or not the president obstructed justice, he leaves it to a Democratically controlled House to answer the question. And honestly, that feels as political, maybe even more political, than the attorney general making the call himself. michael schmidt In a sense, maybe Barr was damned if he did and damned if he didn’t. I don’t know. michael barbaro Do you think that Mueller would have anticipated all of this, that this would put Barr in a political position and would essentially violate the spirit of what the special counsel was all about? michael schmidt It’s one of the mysteries right now. It’s one of the questions we’re trying to answer. Why is it that Mueller couldn’t come to a conclusion? Came to a conclusion on collusion, said it didn’t happen. But obstruction — wouldn’t exonerate the president. michael barbaro Mike, it seems like before this report came out over the weekend, the main concern from Congress about Attorney General Bill Barr was whether he would ever release the full Mueller report to Congress, not that he would actually weigh in on whether the president committed crimes, because the idea that Mueller would not reach a conclusion wasn’t really conceivable. In retrospect, was that a mistake, that we weren’t focused enough on the possibility that Barr might weigh in on something like this and that he had already kind of told us how he would act in this situation? michael schmidt Like the folks who put the special counsel regulations together 20 years ago, we, just a few weeks ago, couldn’t predict the future, and we couldn’t come up with the idea that Mueller, who’s been there for two years, would, at the end of the day, throw up his hands and say, I can’t make a determination on this. I spoke to a former senior Justice Department official today who said he had never seen an example in his entire career of prosecutors saying, we just can’t make a call here. michael barbaro I wonder if the way that this has played out, in such a political manner — Mueller sends a decision to Barr, Barr decides not to pursue obstruction — how much does that influence what comes next, how Congress now conducts its side of this investigation, and how it treats the Mueller report? michael schmidt Well, if Mueller had said there was no obstruction, and Barr put that out, then the Democrats would really have nothing to work with. But because Mueller didn’t make a decision, it now opens the door for the Democrats to say, we really need to take a look at everything that was here. Why was it that Mueller couldn’t make a decision? How did Bill Barr assess this? And they actually have something to work with. It gives them an issue to continue to prod on the obstruction of justice. Because if Mueller had cleared the president, the bar, no pun intended, for them to overcome to even investigate it would’ve been pretty high. michael barbaro So counterintuitively, because of the way this played out, because of what Mueller did or didn’t do, and what Barr did as a political figure in all this, he has given someone like Jerry Nadler, the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, a reasonably good reason to keep pushing forward for as much evidence as possible. michael schmidt Correct. And I think that’s what we’ll see. michael barbaro Thank you, Mike. michael schmidt Thanks for having me. Hosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Michael Simon Johnson and edited by Paige Cowett Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device: Via Apple Podcasts | Via RadioPublic | Via Stitcher The special counsel, Robert Mueller, was supposed to decide whether President Trump had committed a crime. Why did the attorney general, William Barr, do it instead? [For an exclusive look at how the biggest stories on “The Daily” podcast come together, subscribe to our newsletter. Read the latest edition here.] On today’s episode: Michael S. Schmidt, who has been covering the special counsel investigation for The New York Times. Background reading: Mr. Barr’s decision to clear President Trump of criminal obstruction of justice brings the specter of politics back into the case.  President Trump and his allies went on the offensive, vowing to pursue and even punish those responsible for the Russia investigation. Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Follow Michael Barbaro on Twitter: @mikiebarb. And if you’re interested in advertising with “The Daily,” write to us at thedaily-ads@nytimes.com. Michael S. Schmidt contributed reporting. “Why Didn’t Mueller Decide on Obstruction?” was produced by Michael Simon Johnson, with help from Clare Toeniskoetter, and edited by Paige Cowett. “The Daily” is produced by Theo Balcomb, Annie Brown, Jessica Cheung, Lynsea Garrison, Michael Simon Johnson, Andy Mills, Neena Pathak, Rachel Quester, Clare Toeniskoetter, Jonathan Wolfe and Alexandra Leigh Young, and edited by Larissa Anderson, Paige Cowett and Wendy Dorr. Lisa Tobin is our executive producer. Samantha Henig is our editorial director. Brad Fisher is our technical manager. Chris Wood is our sound engineer. Our theme music is by Jim Brunberg and Ben Landsverk of Wonderly.

transcript Hosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Michael Simon Johnson and edited by Paige Cowett The special counsel came to no conclusion on whether President Trump illegally obstructed justice. The attorney general, a recent political appointee, stepped in. Tuesday, March 26th, 2019 michael barbaro From The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today: The special counsel was supposed to make the decision about whether President Trump committed a crime. Why did the attorney general do it instead? It’s Tuesday, March 26. Mike Schmidt, it has been 48 hours since the attorney general, Bill Barr, sent his summary of the special counsel’s report to congressional leaders. Where are you at in your thinking about all this? michael schmidt In a certain way, I’m starting to think that the special counsel regulations, the way that this investigation was set up, has failed. michael barbaro What do you mean failed? Do you mean, because this investigation didn’t produce criminal charges against the president? michael schmidt No, no, no. It’s not about that. It’s about the perception of politics in criminal decisions. Bob Mueller, the special counsel, operated under certain regulations that were designed to protect him and his investigation but also give the public assurances that investigators who were free of politics pursued the facts. In this case, there’s a perception problem. michael barbaro What do you mean by perception problem? michael schmidt The special counsel is supposed to go out, look into the issues that are in question — in this case, collusion and obstruction of justice — and no matter how hard the questions they are looking at are, make a determination about whether someone broke the law or not. archived recording 1 Because obviously, Mueller did not feel comfortable making a decision in either direction on obstruction. archived recording 2 Mueller said, you know what, I can’t decide. It’s up to you. michael schmidt In the case of the president, Mueller made no conclusion with respect to obstruction. archived recording 1 I would love to learn more about what was happening behind the scenes and why Mueller decided to punt. archived recording 2 Prosecutors get paid to make determinations. That’s what we do. michael schmidt So that meant that the special counsel, the person who had been put there to protect themselves from politics, had no determination. archived recording That’s not the job of the prosecutor. The job of the prosecutor is to decide yes or no. michael schmidt And that left it up to the political appointees, the attorney general and deputy attorney general, people who had been placed there by Donald Trump. archived recording Barr says he and the deputy attorney general, Rod Rosenstein, concluded that that conduct did not reach the threshold of a crime. michael barbaro So you’re saying that because Mueller punted the decision on obstruction of justice to Barr, and it was Barr who then cleared the president of that charge, the special counsel failed because there was no apolitical figure reaching a conclusion on one of the central questions of the investigation. michael schmidt Correct. Part of the reason the special counsel is there is to give the public the assurance that a investigator who’s not politically tied to the person under investigation is doing the work and following the facts. And in this case, that person, Mueller, said, I can’t come to a determination on this, and kicked it up to the folks above him who are the political appointees. By not reaching a conclusion, Mueller left the door open for Barr to come in and make a determination that he didn’t think there was enough to say the president broke the law. But Barr has another perception problem. michael barbaro What’s that? michael schmidt Back in 2018, Bill Barr, who had been the attorney general under George H. W. Bush and was now semi-retired, he, unprompted, wrote a memo that ended up in the hands of the Trump legal team that essentially said there is a very, very high bar for a president to be charged with obstruction of justice. And in that argument, he says that in order to prove obstruction, you also have to prove the underlying crime. In this case, collusion. So to make a case, you have to be able to establish both. michael barbaro And Barr writes this long before his attorney general. What is meaningful about that memo and that legal logic about obstruction of justice now? michael schmidt In the letter he sends to Congress this weekend in which he explains the decision on what they did with the president on obstruction, he says that one of the reasons that it’s so difficult to make this case is that they can’t show that the president was part of collusion. michael barbaro An underlying crime that would justify a charge of obstruction of justice. michael schmidt Correct. I actually want to — can I read from it? michael barbaro Yeah. michael schmidt In his letter, he said, quote, “In making this determination, we noted that the special counsel recognized that ‘the evidence does not establish that the president was involved in an underlying crime related to Russian election interference,’ and that, while not determinative, the absence of such evidence bears upon the president’s intent with respect to obstruction.” michael barbaro So just to translate that for us, what exactly is he saying? michael schmidt He’s saying that unless you can show that the president was trying to obstruct to cover up another crime, then the obstruction is sort of hollow. It doesn’t really resonate because there’s nothing really to cover up. michael barbaro So that is a clear echo to the original Barr memo from 2018 written to the Trump administration. And it sounds like what you’re saying is that because Barr wrote this memo before he was nominated as attorney general, the White House knew he held this position when it came to obstruction of justice. And the fact that it ended up being that legal interpretation that is used to help clear the president of wrongdoing when it comes to obstruction of justice — that starts to feel quite political. michael schmidt Here’s the problem. Barr may be right. He may have come to the correct conclusion based on the law and the fact. But because Mueller took a pass in this highly weird thing where he didn’t want to make a call about whether the president broke the law on obstruction, it ended up in Barr’s hands. And he looks like the ultimate and only decision maker. And he, because of politics, has perception issues on this decision. michael barbaro Well, let’s talk about the actual conclusion that Barr reached. What do you make, Mike, of his rationale? Is there a broad legal consensus around Barr’s argument here that obstruction of justice depends on an underlying crime? michael schmidt I think prosecutors would say that they don’t want to bring cases against folks who did not obstruct an actual criminal act. Legally, you could make the case, but most prosecutors wouldn’t want to because it’s not worth their time and energy to go after someone who is trying to cover up something that’s not criminal. michael barbaro Got it. michael schmidt But in this case, I would say that there were crimes that the president may have wanted to cover up. michael barbaro Hmm. Which ones? michael schmidt Well — archived recording Breaking news. President Trump’s former longtime attorney and fixer, Michael Cohen, pleading guilty to eight counts of campaign finance violation, including, and importantly, hush money payments to Stormy Daniels and Karen McDougal — hush money payments that Cohen said then-candidate Donald Trump directed. Cohen’s stunning words today, and I quote, “in coordination and at the direction of a candidate for federal office.” michael schmidt The president has been named essentially as an unindicted co-conspirator in Michael Cohen’s payments to women before the election for violating campaign finance. archived recording Prosecutors say the hush money payments Cohen made violate campaign finance laws. President Trump calls them a simple private transaction. michael schmidt Donald Trump knew about those payments in May, June, July of 2017. So if you’re the president and Bob Mueller comes along and you know that you made these payments, you think, well, if this thing really gets out of hand, I could have some problems. So in the summer of 2017 the president’s talking about trying to fire Mueller. archived recording Now, according to The New York Times and The Washington Post, the White House is laying the groundwork to try to discredit or undermine Mueller’s investigation. michael schmidt Why was he really talking about that? Was it because of Russia? Was it because it was simply a distraction? Or did he want to ensure that Mueller didn’t go too far into his personal finances? archived recording Multiple U.S. officials tell NBC News Mueller is gathering documents involving the financial records and businesses of dealings close to the Trump campaign, something the president says is a red line — a red line, except following the money is what Mueller does. michael schmidt Barr says, look, he had nothing to cover up on Russia, but his same Justice Department has essentially said he’s an unindicted co-conspirator in a campaign finance case. The Justice Department is looking at his inaugural committee — archived recording Putting all information related to inaugural donors, vendors, contractors, bank accounts. michael schmidt — and his businesses. And Mueller’s investigation has led to great embarrassment for the president. archived recording 1 President Trump’s former national security adviser Michael Flynn just hours away from finding out if he’ll go to prison for lying to the F.B.I. about his Russia contacts. archived recording 2 Also, breaking tonight, the president’s former campaign chairman, Paul Manafort, found guilty on eight counts. archived recording 3 Roger Stone, longtime Trump associate and adviser, was taken into custody by the F.B.I. michael schmidt Even though he was cleared on collusion, more than a handful of his advisors and associates have pled guilty to different charges. So was there really nothing to obstruct? michael barbaro So you’re saying that Barr’s rationale that there is no obstruction, because there were no crimes to obstruct, doesn’t really hold up, because there were crimes, they just weren’t the crimes of coordinating with Russia to influence the election? michael schmidt I’m saying that a day after Barr sent the letter, as we look at it, that’s another part of it that doesn’t make complete sense yet. michael barbaro Mike, is that one more way in which, by kicking the decision to Bill Barr, the special counsel put this in the political realm of interpretation by political actors in a political system that might have been better left to an independent figure as the special counsel rules envisioned? michael schmidt It means that instead of Mueller explaining the determination, Barr is doing it. And that just exposes the decision to the politics that Mueller was there to protect it from. And the head-scratching part of it is, so you went through this whole exercise of creating a special counsel. michael barbaro To be apolitical. michael schmidt To be apolitical. And in the end, the special counsel takes a pass, and it ends up right back in the hands of the political appointees. Well, why did you need a special counsel? michael barbaro Right. And to that point, I guess the question is, why did Robert Mueller kick this question of obstruction of justice to the attorney general knowing full well everything you just explained, that that would make whatever decision Barr made feel political and in violation of the spirit of having a special counsel? He arguably handed off his central job to a political appointee. michael schmidt Well, we don’t know, and we’re trying to find out. But here are two possibilities. Maybe, one, he didn’t want to box in Barr. He didn’t want to put him in a situation where he may appear to be disagreeing with the investigators. The second is that the legal issues around this are very difficult to unravel because it’s caught up in the unique position the president has as the head of the executive branch. And it may just be so hard to untangle them that Mueller kind of threw up his hands and said, this is a highly unusual situation. I’m going to let the Justice Department make the call. michael barbaro It’s interesting. You said that maybe Mueller doesn’t want to box in Bill Barr, but it feels like it also puts Barr in a very weird position, because Barr’s options are all about degrees of political once Mueller kicks the decision to him. If Barr makes a decision about obstruction, yes, that seems political. But if he sends Mueller’s findings along to Congress with an open-ended question of whether or not the president obstructed justice, he leaves it to a Democratically controlled House to answer the question. And honestly, that feels as political, maybe even more political, than the attorney general making the call himself. michael schmidt In a sense, maybe Barr was damned if he did and damned if he didn’t. I don’t know. michael barbaro Do you think that Mueller would have anticipated all of this, that this would put Barr in a political position and would essentially violate the spirit of what the special counsel was all about? michael schmidt It’s one of the mysteries right now. It’s one of the questions we’re trying to answer. Why is it that Mueller couldn’t come to a conclusion? Came to a conclusion on collusion, said it didn’t happen. But obstruction — wouldn’t exonerate the president. michael barbaro Mike, it seems like before this report came out over the weekend, the main concern from Congress about Attorney General Bill Barr was whether he would ever release the full Mueller report to Congress, not that he would actually weigh in on whether the president committed crimes, because the idea that Mueller would not reach a conclusion wasn’t really conceivable. In retrospect, was that a mistake, that we weren’t focused enough on the possibility that Barr might weigh in on something like this and that he had already kind of told us how he would act in this situation? michael schmidt Like the folks who put the special counsel regulations together 20 years ago, we, just a few weeks ago, couldn’t predict the future, and we couldn’t come up with the idea that Mueller, who’s been there for two years, would, at the end of the day, throw up his hands and say, I can’t make a determination on this. I spoke to a former senior Justice Department official today who said he had never seen an example in his entire career of prosecutors saying, we just can’t make a call here. michael barbaro I wonder if the way that this has played out, in such a political manner — Mueller sends a decision to Barr, Barr decides not to pursue obstruction — how much does that influence what comes next, how Congress now conducts its side of this investigation, and how it treats the Mueller report? michael schmidt Well, if Mueller had said there was no obstruction, and Barr put that out, then the Democrats would really have nothing to work with. But because Mueller didn’t make a decision, it now opens the door for the Democrats to say, we really need to take a look at everything that was here. Why was it that Mueller couldn’t make a decision? How did Bill Barr assess this? And they actually have something to work with. It gives them an issue to continue to prod on the obstruction of justice. Because if Mueller had cleared the president, the bar, no pun intended, for them to overcome to even investigate it would’ve been pretty high. michael barbaro So counterintuitively, because of the way this played out, because of what Mueller did or didn’t do, and what Barr did as a political figure in all this, he has given someone like Jerry Nadler, the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, a reasonably good reason to keep pushing forward for as much evidence as possible. michael schmidt Correct. And I think that’s what we’ll see. michael barbaro Thank you, Mike. michael schmidt Thanks for having me. Hosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Michael Simon Johnson and edited by Paige Cowett Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device: Via Apple Podcasts | Via RadioPublic | Via Stitcher The special counsel, Robert Mueller, was supposed to decide whether President Trump had committed a crime. Why did the attorney general, William Barr, do it instead? [For an exclusive look at how the biggest stories on “The Daily” podcast come together, subscribe to our newsletter. Read the latest edition here.] On today’s episode: Michael S. Schmidt, who has been covering the special counsel investigation for The New York Times. Background reading: Mr. Barr’s decision to clear President Trump of criminal obstruction of justice brings the specter of politics back into the case.  President Trump and his allies went on the offensive, vowing to pursue and even punish those responsible for the Russia investigation. Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Follow Michael Barbaro on Twitter: @mikiebarb. And if you’re interested in advertising with “The Daily,” write to us at thedaily-ads@nytimes.com. Michael S. Schmidt contributed reporting. “Why Didn’t Mueller Decide on Obstruction?” was produced by Michael Simon Johnson, with help from Clare Toeniskoetter, and edited by Paige Cowett. “The Daily” is produced by Theo Balcomb, Annie Brown, Jessica Cheung, Lynsea Garrison, Michael Simon Johnson, Andy Mills, Neena Pathak, Rachel Quester, Clare Toeniskoetter, Jonathan Wolfe and Alexandra Leigh Young, and edited by Larissa Anderson, Paige Cowett and Wendy Dorr. Lisa Tobin is our executive producer. Samantha Henig is our editorial director. Brad Fisher is our technical manager. Chris Wood is our sound engineer. Our theme music is by Jim Brunberg and Ben Landsverk of Wonderly.Supported by By Reuters MOSCOW — The Kremlin said on Friday that U.S. Special Counsel Robert Mueller's long-awaited report did not contain any evidence the Russian state had meddled in the 2016 U.S. presidential election.  Mueller's report, released on Thursday, details extensive contacts between Donald Trump's 2016 campaign and Russian operatives who, it said, sought to tilt the election in Trump's favour. However, the report did not find evidence of a criminal conspiracy between Trump's election campaign and Russia. Speaking to reporters on a conference call, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Moscow regretted the Mueller report was having an impact on its relations with Washington. "In general, the report still does not include any reasonable evidence at all that Russia allegedly interfered in the U.S. election.  "We, as before, do not accept such allegations," Peskov said.  "We regret that a document of this quality is having a direct impact on the development of bilateral Russian-U.S. relations that are already not in the best condition," he added.   (Reporting by Tom Balmforth and Maria Kiselyova; Editing by Mark Potter)

Supported by By Reuters MOSCOW — The Kremlin said on Friday that U.S. Special Counsel Robert Mueller's long-awaited report did not contain any evidence the Russian state had meddled in the 2016 U.S. presidential election.  Mueller's report, released on Thursday, details extensive contacts between Donald Trump's 2016 campaign and Russian operatives who, it said, sought to tilt the election in Trump's favour. However, the report did not find evidence of a criminal conspiracy between Trump's election campaign and Russia. Speaking to reporters on a conference call, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Moscow regretted the Mueller report was having an impact on its relations with Washington. "In general, the report still does not include any reasonable evidence at all that Russia allegedly interfered in the U.S. election.  "We, as before, do not accept such allegations," Peskov said.  "We regret that a document of this quality is having a direct impact on the development of bilateral Russian-U.S. relations that are already not in the best condition," he added.   (Reporting by Tom Balmforth and Maria Kiselyova; Editing by Mark Potter)Supported by The special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, investigated Russian election interference, ties to the Trump campaign and possible presidential obstruction of justice. His report has been released. By Peter Baker Mr. Mueller examined about 10 actions by President Trump to determine whether he sought to obstruct justice but could not reach a conclusion. He found a concerted effort by Russia to interfere in the 2016 election, but established no criminal conspiracy between Mr. Trump’s campaign and Russia. The report detailed dramatic conflicts within the White House. When Mr. Trump learned of Mr. Mueller’s appointment, he slumped in his chair and said: “Oh my God. This is terrible. This is the end of my presidency.” [Read more excerpts and analysis from our reporters.] Attorney General William P. Barr offered a strong defense of Mr. Trump and said he gave the president’s lawyers access to Mr. Mueller’s report “earlier this week,” before it was released.  While Mr. Mueller’s investigation is over, he reported that it has spawned 14 spinoff inquiries. At a White House event for wounded troops, Mr. Trump claimed vindication to cheers from the audience. Democrats lashed out at Mr. Barr, and said it was up to Congress to hold the president to account.  Investigators examined about 10 episodes in which the president may have obstructed justice, but Mr. Mueller said he could not reach a conclusion. “The evidence we obtained about the president’s actions and intent presents difficult issues that would need to be resolved if we were making a traditional prosecutorial judgment. At the same time, if we had confidence after a thorough investigation of the facts that the president clearly did not commit obstruction of justice, we would so state. Based on the facts and the applicable legal standards, we are unable to reach that judgment. Accordingly, while this report does not conclude that the president committed a crime, it also does not exonerate him.” Mr. Barr, however, opted to reach the conclusion that Mr. Mueller would not. “After carefully reviewing the facts and legal theories outlined in the report, and in consultation with the Office of Legal Counsel and other department lawyers, the deputy attorney general and I concluded that the evidence developed by the special counsel is not sufficient to establish that the president committed an obstruction of justice offense,” Mr. Barr said at a news conference before the release of the report. Mr. Barr said that he “disagreed with some of the special counsel’s legal theories” regarding obstruction but even accepting them found no basis for a criminal charge. Among the incidents that the special counsel examined was Mr. Trump’s decision to fire James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director, in May 2017, and an attempt by the president a month later to have his White House counsel, Donald F. McGahn II, fire Mr. Mueller.  He also looked at the president’s efforts to hide details of a Trump Tower meeting with Russians during the election and to pressure Jeff Sessions, then the attorney general, to reverse his decision to recuse himself from supervising the investigation. Mr. Barr said he would not stand in the way of Mr. Mueller testifying on Capitol Hill about his findings. “I have no objection to Bob Mueller testifying,” Mr. Barr said.  The findings from the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, are now available to the public. The redacted report details his two-year investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election. [Get what you need to know delivered to your inbox every weekday morning.] The last two years were filled with angry clashes, outbursts, threatened resignations and false statements as Mr. Trump reacted to the investigation. After saying that Mr. Mueller’s appointment would mean “the end of my presidency,” Mr. Trump turned on Jeff Sessions, then the attorney general, blaming him for recusing himself from overseeing the investigation. “How could you let this happen, Jeff?” he demanded. The tension between Mr. Trump and Mr. McGahn, then the White House counsel, flared repeatedly. In June 2017, Mr. Trump called Mr. McGahn from Camp David twice and told him to have Mr. Mueller fired for alleged conflicts of interest. Mr. McGahn refused, saying he did not want to repeat the “Saturday Night Massacre,” when Richard M. Nixon ordered the firing of Watergate prosecutors. Mr. McGahn prepared to submit his resignation. He called Reince Priebus, then the White House chief of staff, and told him the president had asked him to “do crazy shit.” Ultimately, Mr. Trump backed off, but when The New York Times reported about the episode, he told Mr. McGahn to publicly deny it, which he would not do. Mr. Trump referred to Mr. McGahn as a “lying bastard” and said that if he did not deny the report, “then maybe I’ll have to get rid of him.” He did not fire Mr. McGahn, who left later that year. In his news conference on Thursday morning, Mr. Barr at times sounded like a defense lawyer, making no criticism of the president and instead offering an understanding interpretation of actions that Mr. Trump’s critics have said amounted to obstruction of justice. [Read Mr. Barr’s full prepared remarks.] In addressing obstruction, Mr. Barr said that the president had no corrupt intent and that his actions seen as impeding the inquiry were a result of being understandably “frustrated and angered by his sincere belief that the investigation was undermining his presidency, propelled by his political opponents and fueled by illegal leaks.” Representative Jerrold Nadler, Democrat of New York and the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, said Thursday afternoon that Mr. Mueller’s report provided clear evidence that the president “engaged in obstruction of justice and other misconduct” that necessitated additional scrutiny by Congress. “The responsibility now falls to Congress to hold the president accountable for his actions,” Mr. Nadler said. The House Judiciary Committee is the traditional home of impeachment proceedings, and Mr. Nadler did not rule them out, though he said such talk was premature. He has already opened his own investigation into possible obstruction of justice, abuse of power and corruption. Speaking to reporters in New York, Mr. Nadler was sharply critical of Mr. Barr, saying, “We clearly can’t believe what Attorney General Barr tells us.” Senator Mark Warner, the top Democrat on the Senate Intelligence Committee, said Mr. Barr “fundamentally mischaracterized” Mr. Mueller’s findings, adding that “it is essential that Congress hear directly from the special counsel.” Mr. Nadler said he would quickly issue a subpoena to compel the delivery of the full report and underlying evidence to his committee.  Mr. Barr said he gave Mr. Trump’s lawyers access to the report early, which allowed them a chance to prepare their public defense. “Earlier this week, the president’s personal counsel requested and were given the opportunity to read a final version of the redacted report before it was publicly released,” Mr. Barr said. “The president’s personal lawyers were not permitted to make, and did not request, any redactions.”  Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer, Rudolph W. Giuliani, said he and three lawyers on the president’s legal team started reading the report on Tuesday night in a secure room at the Justice Department. “We couldn’t take it out. We couldn’t photograph it,” Mr. Giuliani said in an interview with Fox News on Thursday. He said he and the other lawyers each read the entire report and shared their thoughts with each other.  [Here’s what you need to know about the redactions and what they mean.] Mr. Barr said he shared the report with Mr. Trump’s personal lawyers in accordance with the “practice followed under the Ethics in Government Act,” permitting those named in a report to read it before publication. However, that has not always been the practice. In 1998, the independent counsel Ken Starr declined to let President Bill Clinton or his lawyers read his report on the Monica Lewinsky case before he sent it to Congress. Mr. Barr said that the White House made no claims of executive privilege over any information in the report. At the news conference, Mr. Barr made sure to include Rod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general, who first appointed Mr. Mueller. He also sent a letter to lawmakers saying that he would allow select congressional leaders to see a full version of the report — without redactions except for grand-jury information. Federal prosecutors are pursuing 14 other investigations that were referred by the special counsel, according to the report.  Of the 14, only two were disclosed in the redacted report: potential wire fraud and federal employment law violations involving Michael D. Cohen, Mr. Trump’s former personal lawyer, and charges against Gregory B. Craig, the former White House counsel under President Barack Obama, who was accused of lying to investigators and concealing work for a pro-Russian government in Ukraine. The other 12 referrals were redacted because of concerns that if details were released publicly, they could harm continuing investigations. The special counsel also transferred 11 cases to other federal prosecutors to be wrapped up, mostly involving defendants who are awaiting trial or sentencing.  Mr. Barr provided an important qualifier to the determination that Mr. Trump and the Trump campaign did not engage in illegal collusion — not with the Russian government that stole the Democratic emails, but with WikiLeaks, which published them. “The special counsel also investigated whether any member or affiliate of the Trump campaign encouraged or otherwise played a role in these dissemination efforts,” he said. “Under applicable law, publication of these types of materials would not be criminal unless the publisher also participated in the underlying hacking conspiracy. Here too, the special counsel’s report did not find that any person associated with the Trump campaign illegally participated in the dissemination of the materials.” In other words, since WikiLeaks did not participate in Russia’s underlying hacking of the emails, its actions were no crime. Thus, any Trump campaign collusion with WikiLeaks could not be an illegal conspiracy. More than two years of criminal indictments and steady revelations about Trump campaign contacts with Russians reveal the scope of the special counsel investigation. Mr. Trump responded to the report at an event at the White House for wounded troops, saying that it had vindicated him.  “They’re having a good day,” he said of the troops. “I’m having a good day too. It’s called ‘no collusion, no obstruction.’ There never was, by the way, and there never will be.” “This should never happen to another president again, this hoax,” he added. Even before the report was released, Mr. Trump was claiming victory and lashing out at investigators and his critics. He tweeted a photo resembling a “Game of Thrones” poster that depicted him staring into a cloud, saying “No Collusion. No Obstruction. For the haters and radical left Democrats: Game Over.” The tweet was the latest of a barrage that the president posted starting early Thursday morning, long before the report was released. He did not speak to reporters in the afternoon as he left the White House for Mar-a-Lago, his club in Florida. Vice President Mike Pence, perhaps the president’s most loyal defender, said Mr. Mueller’s report “confirms what the president and I have said since Day 1: There was no collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia and there was no obstruction of justice.” Mr. Pence also said the special counsel investigation had the “full cooperation” of the White House. But despite the special counsel’s requests, Mr. Trump’s lawyers would not let the president sit for an interview out of concern that the president would make a false statement and expose himself to criminal charges. Instead, Mr. Trump provided written answers to questions. While attention focused on what was in Mr. Mueller’s report, many in Washington were also looking at what was left out. Mr. Barr made what he called “limited” redactions to the report, taking out information he deemed sensitive. More than a dozen pages were fully redacted, or nearly so. Other pages had sections of text blacked out, including full paragraphs. Much of the undisclosed material was in the first section of the report on Russia’s interference in the 2016 election and its interactions with the Trump campaign. Far less was scrubbed from the second part of the report, on whether Mr. Trump obstructed justice. Mr. Barr blacked out sentences or sections that fit into four categories: grand-jury testimony or evidence; classified intelligence; information that would compromise continuing investigations; and details that might harm the reputations or intrude on the privacy of “peripheral third parties.” The attorney general used different colors through the report to identify which sections were deleted for which reasons. The phrase “harm to ongoing matter” came up alongside enough deleted material that it quickly become its own meme, inspiring the names of upcoming bar trivia teams and imaginary punk rock bands. Katie Benner, Nicholas Fandos, Michael S. Schmidt, Eileen Sullivan, Michael Tackett and Noah Weiland contributed reporting. Peter Baker is the chief White House correspondent and has covered the last four presidents for The Times and The Washington Post. He also is the author of five books, most recently “Impeachment: An American History.”  @peterbakernyt • Facebook 

Supported by The special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, investigated Russian election interference, ties to the Trump campaign and possible presidential obstruction of justice. His report has been released. By Peter Baker Mr. Mueller examined about 10 actions by President Trump to determine whether he sought to obstruct justice but could not reach a conclusion. He found a concerted effort by Russia to interfere in the 2016 election, but established no criminal conspiracy between Mr. Trump’s campaign and Russia. The report detailed dramatic conflicts within the White House. When Mr. Trump learned of Mr. Mueller’s appointment, he slumped in his chair and said: “Oh my God. This is terrible. This is the end of my presidency.” [Read more excerpts and analysis from our reporters.] Attorney General William P. Barr offered a strong defense of Mr. Trump and said he gave the president’s lawyers access to Mr. Mueller’s report “earlier this week,” before it was released.  While Mr. Mueller’s investigation is over, he reported that it has spawned 14 spinoff inquiries. At a White House event for wounded troops, Mr. Trump claimed vindication to cheers from the audience. Democrats lashed out at Mr. Barr, and said it was up to Congress to hold the president to account.  Investigators examined about 10 episodes in which the president may have obstructed justice, but Mr. Mueller said he could not reach a conclusion. “The evidence we obtained about the president’s actions and intent presents difficult issues that would need to be resolved if we were making a traditional prosecutorial judgment. At the same time, if we had confidence after a thorough investigation of the facts that the president clearly did not commit obstruction of justice, we would so state. Based on the facts and the applicable legal standards, we are unable to reach that judgment. Accordingly, while this report does not conclude that the president committed a crime, it also does not exonerate him.” Mr. Barr, however, opted to reach the conclusion that Mr. Mueller would not. “After carefully reviewing the facts and legal theories outlined in the report, and in consultation with the Office of Legal Counsel and other department lawyers, the deputy attorney general and I concluded that the evidence developed by the special counsel is not sufficient to establish that the president committed an obstruction of justice offense,” Mr. Barr said at a news conference before the release of the report. Mr. Barr said that he “disagreed with some of the special counsel’s legal theories” regarding obstruction but even accepting them found no basis for a criminal charge. Among the incidents that the special counsel examined was Mr. Trump’s decision to fire James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director, in May 2017, and an attempt by the president a month later to have his White House counsel, Donald F. McGahn II, fire Mr. Mueller.  He also looked at the president’s efforts to hide details of a Trump Tower meeting with Russians during the election and to pressure Jeff Sessions, then the attorney general, to reverse his decision to recuse himself from supervising the investigation. Mr. Barr said he would not stand in the way of Mr. Mueller testifying on Capitol Hill about his findings. “I have no objection to Bob Mueller testifying,” Mr. Barr said.  The findings from the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, are now available to the public. The redacted report details his two-year investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election. [Get what you need to know delivered to your inbox every weekday morning.] The last two years were filled with angry clashes, outbursts, threatened resignations and false statements as Mr. Trump reacted to the investigation. After saying that Mr. Mueller’s appointment would mean “the end of my presidency,” Mr. Trump turned on Jeff Sessions, then the attorney general, blaming him for recusing himself from overseeing the investigation. “How could you let this happen, Jeff?” he demanded. The tension between Mr. Trump and Mr. McGahn, then the White House counsel, flared repeatedly. In June 2017, Mr. Trump called Mr. McGahn from Camp David twice and told him to have Mr. Mueller fired for alleged conflicts of interest. Mr. McGahn refused, saying he did not want to repeat the “Saturday Night Massacre,” when Richard M. Nixon ordered the firing of Watergate prosecutors. Mr. McGahn prepared to submit his resignation. He called Reince Priebus, then the White House chief of staff, and told him the president had asked him to “do crazy shit.” Ultimately, Mr. Trump backed off, but when The New York Times reported about the episode, he told Mr. McGahn to publicly deny it, which he would not do. Mr. Trump referred to Mr. McGahn as a “lying bastard” and said that if he did not deny the report, “then maybe I’ll have to get rid of him.” He did not fire Mr. McGahn, who left later that year. In his news conference on Thursday morning, Mr. Barr at times sounded like a defense lawyer, making no criticism of the president and instead offering an understanding interpretation of actions that Mr. Trump’s critics have said amounted to obstruction of justice. [Read Mr. Barr’s full prepared remarks.] In addressing obstruction, Mr. Barr said that the president had no corrupt intent and that his actions seen as impeding the inquiry were a result of being understandably “frustrated and angered by his sincere belief that the investigation was undermining his presidency, propelled by his political opponents and fueled by illegal leaks.” Representative Jerrold Nadler, Democrat of New York and the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, said Thursday afternoon that Mr. Mueller’s report provided clear evidence that the president “engaged in obstruction of justice and other misconduct” that necessitated additional scrutiny by Congress. “The responsibility now falls to Congress to hold the president accountable for his actions,” Mr. Nadler said. The House Judiciary Committee is the traditional home of impeachment proceedings, and Mr. Nadler did not rule them out, though he said such talk was premature. He has already opened his own investigation into possible obstruction of justice, abuse of power and corruption. Speaking to reporters in New York, Mr. Nadler was sharply critical of Mr. Barr, saying, “We clearly can’t believe what Attorney General Barr tells us.” Senator Mark Warner, the top Democrat on the Senate Intelligence Committee, said Mr. Barr “fundamentally mischaracterized” Mr. Mueller’s findings, adding that “it is essential that Congress hear directly from the special counsel.” Mr. Nadler said he would quickly issue a subpoena to compel the delivery of the full report and underlying evidence to his committee.  Mr. Barr said he gave Mr. Trump’s lawyers access to the report early, which allowed them a chance to prepare their public defense. “Earlier this week, the president’s personal counsel requested and were given the opportunity to read a final version of the redacted report before it was publicly released,” Mr. Barr said. “The president’s personal lawyers were not permitted to make, and did not request, any redactions.”  Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer, Rudolph W. Giuliani, said he and three lawyers on the president’s legal team started reading the report on Tuesday night in a secure room at the Justice Department. “We couldn’t take it out. We couldn’t photograph it,” Mr. Giuliani said in an interview with Fox News on Thursday. He said he and the other lawyers each read the entire report and shared their thoughts with each other.  [Here’s what you need to know about the redactions and what they mean.] Mr. Barr said he shared the report with Mr. Trump’s personal lawyers in accordance with the “practice followed under the Ethics in Government Act,” permitting those named in a report to read it before publication. However, that has not always been the practice. In 1998, the independent counsel Ken Starr declined to let President Bill Clinton or his lawyers read his report on the Monica Lewinsky case before he sent it to Congress. Mr. Barr said that the White House made no claims of executive privilege over any information in the report. At the news conference, Mr. Barr made sure to include Rod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general, who first appointed Mr. Mueller. He also sent a letter to lawmakers saying that he would allow select congressional leaders to see a full version of the report — without redactions except for grand-jury information. Federal prosecutors are pursuing 14 other investigations that were referred by the special counsel, according to the report.  Of the 14, only two were disclosed in the redacted report: potential wire fraud and federal employment law violations involving Michael D. Cohen, Mr. Trump’s former personal lawyer, and charges against Gregory B. Craig, the former White House counsel under President Barack Obama, who was accused of lying to investigators and concealing work for a pro-Russian government in Ukraine. The other 12 referrals were redacted because of concerns that if details were released publicly, they could harm continuing investigations. The special counsel also transferred 11 cases to other federal prosecutors to be wrapped up, mostly involving defendants who are awaiting trial or sentencing.  Mr. Barr provided an important qualifier to the determination that Mr. Trump and the Trump campaign did not engage in illegal collusion — not with the Russian government that stole the Democratic emails, but with WikiLeaks, which published them. “The special counsel also investigated whether any member or affiliate of the Trump campaign encouraged or otherwise played a role in these dissemination efforts,” he said. “Under applicable law, publication of these types of materials would not be criminal unless the publisher also participated in the underlying hacking conspiracy. Here too, the special counsel’s report did not find that any person associated with the Trump campaign illegally participated in the dissemination of the materials.” In other words, since WikiLeaks did not participate in Russia’s underlying hacking of the emails, its actions were no crime. Thus, any Trump campaign collusion with WikiLeaks could not be an illegal conspiracy. More than two years of criminal indictments and steady revelations about Trump campaign contacts with Russians reveal the scope of the special counsel investigation. Mr. Trump responded to the report at an event at the White House for wounded troops, saying that it had vindicated him.  “They’re having a good day,” he said of the troops. “I’m having a good day too. It’s called ‘no collusion, no obstruction.’ There never was, by the way, and there never will be.” “This should never happen to another president again, this hoax,” he added. Even before the report was released, Mr. Trump was claiming victory and lashing out at investigators and his critics. He tweeted a photo resembling a “Game of Thrones” poster that depicted him staring into a cloud, saying “No Collusion. No Obstruction. For the haters and radical left Democrats: Game Over.” The tweet was the latest of a barrage that the president posted starting early Thursday morning, long before the report was released. He did not speak to reporters in the afternoon as he left the White House for Mar-a-Lago, his club in Florida. Vice President Mike Pence, perhaps the president’s most loyal defender, said Mr. Mueller’s report “confirms what the president and I have said since Day 1: There was no collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia and there was no obstruction of justice.” Mr. Pence also said the special counsel investigation had the “full cooperation” of the White House. But despite the special counsel’s requests, Mr. Trump’s lawyers would not let the president sit for an interview out of concern that the president would make a false statement and expose himself to criminal charges. Instead, Mr. Trump provided written answers to questions. While attention focused on what was in Mr. Mueller’s report, many in Washington were also looking at what was left out. Mr. Barr made what he called “limited” redactions to the report, taking out information he deemed sensitive. More than a dozen pages were fully redacted, or nearly so. Other pages had sections of text blacked out, including full paragraphs. Much of the undisclosed material was in the first section of the report on Russia’s interference in the 2016 election and its interactions with the Trump campaign. Far less was scrubbed from the second part of the report, on whether Mr. Trump obstructed justice. Mr. Barr blacked out sentences or sections that fit into four categories: grand-jury testimony or evidence; classified intelligence; information that would compromise continuing investigations; and details that might harm the reputations or intrude on the privacy of “peripheral third parties.” The attorney general used different colors through the report to identify which sections were deleted for which reasons. The phrase “harm to ongoing matter” came up alongside enough deleted material that it quickly become its own meme, inspiring the names of upcoming bar trivia teams and imaginary punk rock bands. Katie Benner, Nicholas Fandos, Michael S. Schmidt, Eileen Sullivan, Michael Tackett and Noah Weiland contributed reporting. Peter Baker is the chief White House correspondent and has covered the last four presidents for The Times and The Washington Post. He also is the author of five books, most recently “Impeachment: An American History.”  @peterbakernyt • Facebook Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump is lashing out at current and former aides who cooperated with special counsel Robert Mueller's investigation, insisting the deeply unflattering picture they painted of him and the White House was "total bullshit." In a series of angry tweets from Palm Beach, Florida, Trump laced into those who, under oath, had shared with Mueller their accounts of how Trump tried numerous times to squash or influence the investigation and portrayed the White House as infected by a culture of lies, deceit and deception. "Statements are made about me by certain people in the Crazy Mueller Report, in itself written by 18 Angry Democrat Trump Haters, which are fabricated & totally untrue," Trump wrote Friday, adding that some were "total bullshit & only given to make the other person look good (or me to look bad)." The attacks were a dramatic departure from the upbeat public face the White House had put on it just 24 hours earlier, when Trump celebrated the report's findings as full exoneration and his counselor Kellyanne Conway called it "the best day" for Trump's team since his election. While the president, according to people close to him, did feel vindicated by the report, he also felt betrayed by those who had painted him in an unflattering light — even though they were speaking under oath and had been directed by the White House to cooperate fully with Mueller's team. The reaction was not entirely surprising and had been something staffers feared in the days ahead of the report's release as they wondered how Mueller might portray their testimony and whether the report might damage their relationships with Trump. While Mueller found no criminal evidence that Trump or his campaign aides colluded in Russian election meddling and did not recommend obstruction charges against the president, the 448-page report released Thursday nonetheless paints a damaging picture of the president, describing numerous cases where he discouraged witnesses from cooperating with prosecutors and prodded aides to mislead the public on his behalf to hamper the Russia probe he feared would cripple his presidency. The accounts prompted Republican Sen. Mitt Romney, who has sometimes clashed with Trump, to release a statement saying he was "sickened at the extent and pervasiveness of dishonesty and misdirection by individuals in the highest office of the land, including the President." "Reading the report is a sobering revelation of how far we have strayed from the aspirations and principles of the founders," he said. The report concluded that one reason Trump managed to stay out of trouble was that his "efforts to influence the investigation were mostly unsuccessful ... largely because the persons who surrounded the President declined to carry out orders or accede to his requests." That didn't spare those who defied Trump's wishes from his wrath. Trump appeared to be especially angry with former White House counsel Don McGahn, who sat with Mueller for about 30 hours of interviews, and is referenced numerous times in the report. In one particularly vivid passage, Mueller recounts how Trump called McGahn twice at home and directed him to set in motion Mueller's firing. McGahn recoiled, packed up his office and threatened to resign, fearing the move would trigger a potential crisis akin to the Saturday Night Massacre of firings during the Watergate era. In another section, Mueller details how Trump questioned McGahn's note-taking, telling the White House counsel that, "Lawyers don 't take notes" and that he'd "never had a lawyer who took notes." "Watch out for people that take so-called "notes," when the notes never existed until needed," Trump said in one of his tweets Friday. Others whose contemporaneous notes were referenced in the report include former staff secretary Rob Porter and Reince Priebus, Trump's first chief of staff. Trump ended his tweet with the word, "a..." suggesting more was coming. More than eight hours later, he finally completed his thought, calling the probe a "big, fat, waste of time, energy and money" and threatening investigators by saying, "It is now finally time to turn the tables and bring justice to some very sick and dangerous people who have committed very serious crimes, perhaps even Spying or Treason." There is no evidence of either. Trump, who is in Florida for the Easter weekend, headed to his West Palm Beach golf club Friday after some early morning rain had cleared. There he played golf with conservative talk radio host Rush Limbaugh "and a couple friends," according to the White House. He'll spend the rest of the weekend with family, friends and paying members of his private Mar-a-Lago club in Palm Beach. As Trump hopped off the steps from Air Force One on Thursday evening, he was greeted by a throng of supporters, who clamored for autographs and selfies. He repeatedly told the crowd "thank you everybody" as they yelled encouragement. Ari Fleischer, who served as White House press secretary to former President George W. Bush, said in an appearance on Fox News that he didn't understand why Trump decided to send his tweets lashing out at former aides. "I think it's over," he said. "If I were the president, I would have basically declared victory with the Mueller report and everything that came out and move beyond it." Still, he said he hoped the White House had learned some lessons. "The president and his entire team needs to realize how close they came to being charged with obstruction," Fleischer said. "Asking your staff to lie and engaging in some of the activities that the Mueller report stated the president engaged in is too close to obstruction. And that's a lesson I hope everybody at the White House takes with them going forward." ___ Associated Press writers Deb Riechmann in Washington and Kevin Freking in Palm Beach, Florida, contributed to this report. ___ For complete coverage of the Mueller report, go to https://www.apnews.com/TrumpInvestigations

Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump is lashing out at current and former aides who cooperated with special counsel Robert Mueller's investigation, insisting the deeply unflattering picture they painted of him and the White House was "total bullshit." In a series of angry tweets from Palm Beach, Florida, Trump laced into those who, under oath, had shared with Mueller their accounts of how Trump tried numerous times to squash or influence the investigation and portrayed the White House as infected by a culture of lies, deceit and deception. "Statements are made about me by certain people in the Crazy Mueller Report, in itself written by 18 Angry Democrat Trump Haters, which are fabricated & totally untrue," Trump wrote Friday, adding that some were "total bullshit & only given to make the other person look good (or me to look bad)." The attacks were a dramatic departure from the upbeat public face the White House had put on it just 24 hours earlier, when Trump celebrated the report's findings as full exoneration and his counselor Kellyanne Conway called it "the best day" for Trump's team since his election. While the president, according to people close to him, did feel vindicated by the report, he also felt betrayed by those who had painted him in an unflattering light — even though they were speaking under oath and had been directed by the White House to cooperate fully with Mueller's team. The reaction was not entirely surprising and had been something staffers feared in the days ahead of the report's release as they wondered how Mueller might portray their testimony and whether the report might damage their relationships with Trump. While Mueller found no criminal evidence that Trump or his campaign aides colluded in Russian election meddling and did not recommend obstruction charges against the president, the 448-page report released Thursday nonetheless paints a damaging picture of the president, describing numerous cases where he discouraged witnesses from cooperating with prosecutors and prodded aides to mislead the public on his behalf to hamper the Russia probe he feared would cripple his presidency. The accounts prompted Republican Sen. Mitt Romney, who has sometimes clashed with Trump, to release a statement saying he was "sickened at the extent and pervasiveness of dishonesty and misdirection by individuals in the highest office of the land, including the President." "Reading the report is a sobering revelation of how far we have strayed from the aspirations and principles of the founders," he said. The report concluded that one reason Trump managed to stay out of trouble was that his "efforts to influence the investigation were mostly unsuccessful ... largely because the persons who surrounded the President declined to carry out orders or accede to his requests." That didn't spare those who defied Trump's wishes from his wrath. Trump appeared to be especially angry with former White House counsel Don McGahn, who sat with Mueller for about 30 hours of interviews, and is referenced numerous times in the report. In one particularly vivid passage, Mueller recounts how Trump called McGahn twice at home and directed him to set in motion Mueller's firing. McGahn recoiled, packed up his office and threatened to resign, fearing the move would trigger a potential crisis akin to the Saturday Night Massacre of firings during the Watergate era. In another section, Mueller details how Trump questioned McGahn's note-taking, telling the White House counsel that, "Lawyers don 't take notes" and that he'd "never had a lawyer who took notes." "Watch out for people that take so-called "notes," when the notes never existed until needed," Trump said in one of his tweets Friday. Others whose contemporaneous notes were referenced in the report include former staff secretary Rob Porter and Reince Priebus, Trump's first chief of staff. Trump ended his tweet with the word, "a..." suggesting more was coming. More than eight hours later, he finally completed his thought, calling the probe a "big, fat, waste of time, energy and money" and threatening investigators by saying, "It is now finally time to turn the tables and bring justice to some very sick and dangerous people who have committed very serious crimes, perhaps even Spying or Treason." There is no evidence of either. Trump, who is in Florida for the Easter weekend, headed to his West Palm Beach golf club Friday after some early morning rain had cleared. There he played golf with conservative talk radio host Rush Limbaugh "and a couple friends," according to the White House. He'll spend the rest of the weekend with family, friends and paying members of his private Mar-a-Lago club in Palm Beach. As Trump hopped off the steps from Air Force One on Thursday evening, he was greeted by a throng of supporters, who clamored for autographs and selfies. He repeatedly told the crowd "thank you everybody" as they yelled encouragement. Ari Fleischer, who served as White House press secretary to former President George W. Bush, said in an appearance on Fox News that he didn't understand why Trump decided to send his tweets lashing out at former aides. "I think it's over," he said. "If I were the president, I would have basically declared victory with the Mueller report and everything that came out and move beyond it." Still, he said he hoped the White House had learned some lessons. "The president and his entire team needs to realize how close they came to being charged with obstruction," Fleischer said. "Asking your staff to lie and engaging in some of the activities that the Mueller report stated the president engaged in is too close to obstruction. And that's a lesson I hope everybody at the White House takes with them going forward." ___ Associated Press writers Deb Riechmann in Washington and Kevin Freking in Palm Beach, Florida, contributed to this report. ___ For complete coverage of the Mueller report, go to https://www.apnews.com/TrumpInvestigationsSupported by On Politics With Lisa Lerer By Lisa Lerer Hi. Welcome to On Politics, your guide to the day in national politics. I’m Lisa Lerer, your host. I have to open this newsletter with a shameful admission. So, I’m sitting at my desk in The New York Times’s Washington bureau, waiting, like everyone in town, for the release of Robert S. Mueller III’s report. CNN is on, Twitter is open and the office is wired. This is a moment, people: It’s a major crossroads in Donald J. Trump’s presidency. It’s the conclusion of 23 months, 34 indictments and guilty pleas, 500 search warrants and 2,300 subpoenas. Finally it drops. I open the 448-page document, with all its legalese and redactions, breathe in the history of the moment and … immediately open five different tabs of junk on the internet. I mean, this thing is long. And overwhelming. Of course, I did eventually dive into it — this is my job, after all — and man, does it paint a picture of an administration with a culture of stretching, if not undermining, the truth. (If you read only one section, make it pages 290-299, which detail Mr. Trump’s attempts to fire the special counsel.) For the rest of you with a life outside of politics, journalists at The Times spent all day digging through the report. Here’s a recap of what we found. Perhaps the most dramatic passage is an account from May 2017. Jeff Sessions, then the attorney general, told Mr. Trump that Rod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general, had appointed Mr. Mueller as special counsel. According to notes written by Jody Hunt, Mr. Sessions’s top aide, Mr. Trump slumped into his chair. “Oh my God. This is terrible. This is the end of my presidency,” he said, finishing the thought with a word we can’t print in a family newsletter. Mr. Trump then “lambasted” Mr. Sessions for recusing himself from the investigation, saying his attorney general had let him down. “Everyone tells me if you get one of these independent counsels it ruins your presidency,” Mr. Trump said. “It takes years and years and I won’t be able to do anything. This is the worst thing that ever happened to me.” [Get On Politics delivered to your inbox.] The Trump campaign didn’t coordinate with the Russian government. But the two talked a lot. In the report, Mr. Mueller’s team wrote that they were not looking for “collusion” — a term they said was used in the press but has no clear legal definition. Instead, they examined whether anyone associated with Mr. Trump “coordinated” with Russians, defined as an agreement between both parties to break the law. The report does not find evidence of coordination. But it does offer a rather damning list of interactions between Trump allies and Russians. One noteworthy mention? Those infamous tapes from a Moscow hotel. In October 2016, a Russian businessman, Giorgi Rtskhiladze, texted Michael Cohen, Mr. Trump’s longtime lawyer, to say that he had “stopped flow of tapes from Russia,” a reference to claims that Mr. Trump was caught on video with prostitutes in 2013. The report notes, though, that the tapes were likely “fake.” The report also details a search by Mr. Trump’s associates for Hillary Clinton’s deleted emails, which Mr. Trump, in July 2016, publicly asked Russia to help him obtain. The president said at the time that he was joking, but in the report, Michael T. Flynn, who would later work as national security adviser, said he was asked repeatedly by Mr. Trump to find the emails. Mr. Flynn contacted multiple people to help his search, including Peter Smith, a longtime Republican operative. Mr. Smith created a company, raised tens of thousands of dollars and recruited security experts and business associates. He claimed “he was in contact with hackers ‘with ties and affiliations to Russia’ who had access to the emails, and that his efforts were coordinated with the Trump Campaign,” the report says. The special counsel couldn’t establish if that was true. But they did establish that Mr. Smith wrote to the Trump campaign’s co-chairman, Sam Clovis, among others, about his efforts. Here’s a much more expansive selection of excerpts and highlights from the report. The report doesn’t clear Mr. Trump of charges that he obstructed justice, as Attorney General William P. Barr did last month — in fact, it shows that he certainly tried to interfere. “The President’s efforts to influence the investigation were mostly unsuccessful, but that is largely because the persons who surrounded the President declined to carry out orders or accede to his requests,” wrote Mr. Mueller’s team. “If we had confidence after a thorough investigation of the facts that the president clearly did not commit obstruction of justice,” they wrote, “we would so state.” Here’s some of what they’re describing: • For 13 days after Mr. Trump asked Mr. Session to resign in May 2017, the president held on to his resignation letter, showing it to aides on Air Force One, a decision that he was warned could function as a “shock collar” to influence the Justice Department. Finally, on May 30, the president returned the letter with a notation: “Not accepted.” • Mr. Trump repeatedly called Donald F. McGahn II, the White House counsel, at home and ordered that he have Mr. Mueller removed. Mr. McGahn didn’t follow the direction, deciding he would rather resign than trigger what he regarded as a potential “Saturday Night Massacre.” • Perhaps the most damning: After reports that the president directed Mr. McGahn to remove Mr. Mueller circulated in the press in early 2018, Mr. Trump asked Mr. McGahn to deny the stories — showing that he was trying to craft a false narrative in the press about his actions. Mr. McGahn refused. Here’s a full look at the key moments in the investigation into whether Mr. Trump obstructed justice. What, exactly, is this thing? The two-volume document is a redacted version of the report written by Mr. Mueller, the special counsel, presenting the findings of his team’s investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election, and into Mr. Trump’s possible effort to influence the outcome. Mr. Barr, the attorney general, released a four-page summary of Mr. Mueller’s report last month, in which he said the investigation did not find that the Trump campaign had colluded with the Russian government and cleared the president of the charge of obstruction of justice. He reiterated those conclusions in a news conference Thursday morning before the report was released. A lot of Democrats were skeptical of Mr. Barr’s summary — particularly on the obstruction issue — and pushed for the release of the full report. What’s up with all the redactions? Mr. Barr has said the redactions — or blacked out portions of the report — were necessary to protect sensitive information, grand jury information and third parties who could be unfairly damaged. He color-coded them, using different colors to represent different types of redactions. (They have, of course, already become a meme.) A less-redacted version will be made available to a bipartisan group of congressional leaders, Mr. Barr said Thursday. What comes next? Democrats said they’re going to push for an unredacted version of the report and the underlying evidence, an effort that’s likely to end up in court — possibly the Supreme Court. Mr. Barr wants to investigate the origins of the F.B.I. investigation into Russia’s election interference, while Democrats in Congress want to probe the special counsel, attorney general and Mr. Trump’s behavior. Mr. Barr is already scheduled to testify before Congress in early May; the House Judiciary Committee said Thursday they’ll call Mr. Mueller, too. And lawmakers in the House and Senate are busy with their own investigations into matters related to the inquiry. “The responsibility now falls to Congress to hold the president accountable for his actions,” said Representative Jerry Nadler, the House judiciary chairman. Is this going to change anyone’s mind about the president? Probably not. Mr. Trump’s approval ratings have barely budged since Mr. Barr issued his summary, which left voters nearly evenly split over whether Mr. Trump had committed any serious wrongdoing — a reflection of the partisan divide over the issue. In a Washington Post-Schar School poll released last month, 51 percent of respondents said the investigation will have no effect on their 2020 vote. We know from a variety of polls that the investigation isn’t a priority for voters on either side, who are far more likely to list health care and the economy as major issues. And we also know that impeachment proceedings seem unlikely, as Speaker Nancy Pelosi signaled last month. Yes, parts of the report show Mr. Trump in an unflattering light. (He lies to aides, tries to get Mrs. Clinton’s emails and yells at his staff. A lot.) but are Americans really going to read all the fine print? [Sign up here to get On Politics in your inbox.] • Read the full report here. • Mr. Barr has played a large part in the report’s release, and has become a target of Democrats. Here are five things to know about him. • Mr. Mueller did not come to a conclusion on the charge of obstruction. But he left the door open to the possibility that after Mr. Trump leaves office, prosecutors could re-examine the evidence gathered and charge him. • Democrats running for president reacted to the day’s events, though they mostly focused on Mr. Barr’s news conference Thursday morning. • Here’s how writers on the left, right and center of the political spectrum responded to thereport. To give you a sense of scale, here’s the whole Mueller report on one page. _____________________ Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox. Thanks for reading. Politics is more than what goes on inside the White House. On Politics brings you the people, issues and ideas reshaping our world. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.

Supported by On Politics With Lisa Lerer By Lisa Lerer Hi. Welcome to On Politics, your guide to the day in national politics. I’m Lisa Lerer, your host. I have to open this newsletter with a shameful admission. So, I’m sitting at my desk in The New York Times’s Washington bureau, waiting, like everyone in town, for the release of Robert S. Mueller III’s report. CNN is on, Twitter is open and the office is wired. This is a moment, people: It’s a major crossroads in Donald J. Trump’s presidency. It’s the conclusion of 23 months, 34 indictments and guilty pleas, 500 search warrants and 2,300 subpoenas. Finally it drops. I open the 448-page document, with all its legalese and redactions, breathe in the history of the moment and … immediately open five different tabs of junk on the internet. I mean, this thing is long. And overwhelming. Of course, I did eventually dive into it — this is my job, after all — and man, does it paint a picture of an administration with a culture of stretching, if not undermining, the truth. (If you read only one section, make it pages 290-299, which detail Mr. Trump’s attempts to fire the special counsel.) For the rest of you with a life outside of politics, journalists at The Times spent all day digging through the report. Here’s a recap of what we found. Perhaps the most dramatic passage is an account from May 2017. Jeff Sessions, then the attorney general, told Mr. Trump that Rod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general, had appointed Mr. Mueller as special counsel. According to notes written by Jody Hunt, Mr. Sessions’s top aide, Mr. Trump slumped into his chair. “Oh my God. This is terrible. This is the end of my presidency,” he said, finishing the thought with a word we can’t print in a family newsletter. Mr. Trump then “lambasted” Mr. Sessions for recusing himself from the investigation, saying his attorney general had let him down. “Everyone tells me if you get one of these independent counsels it ruins your presidency,” Mr. Trump said. “It takes years and years and I won’t be able to do anything. This is the worst thing that ever happened to me.” [Get On Politics delivered to your inbox.] The Trump campaign didn’t coordinate with the Russian government. But the two talked a lot. In the report, Mr. Mueller’s team wrote that they were not looking for “collusion” — a term they said was used in the press but has no clear legal definition. Instead, they examined whether anyone associated with Mr. Trump “coordinated” with Russians, defined as an agreement between both parties to break the law. The report does not find evidence of coordination. But it does offer a rather damning list of interactions between Trump allies and Russians. One noteworthy mention? Those infamous tapes from a Moscow hotel. In October 2016, a Russian businessman, Giorgi Rtskhiladze, texted Michael Cohen, Mr. Trump’s longtime lawyer, to say that he had “stopped flow of tapes from Russia,” a reference to claims that Mr. Trump was caught on video with prostitutes in 2013. The report notes, though, that the tapes were likely “fake.” The report also details a search by Mr. Trump’s associates for Hillary Clinton’s deleted emails, which Mr. Trump, in July 2016, publicly asked Russia to help him obtain. The president said at the time that he was joking, but in the report, Michael T. Flynn, who would later work as national security adviser, said he was asked repeatedly by Mr. Trump to find the emails. Mr. Flynn contacted multiple people to help his search, including Peter Smith, a longtime Republican operative. Mr. Smith created a company, raised tens of thousands of dollars and recruited security experts and business associates. He claimed “he was in contact with hackers ‘with ties and affiliations to Russia’ who had access to the emails, and that his efforts were coordinated with the Trump Campaign,” the report says. The special counsel couldn’t establish if that was true. But they did establish that Mr. Smith wrote to the Trump campaign’s co-chairman, Sam Clovis, among others, about his efforts. Here’s a much more expansive selection of excerpts and highlights from the report. The report doesn’t clear Mr. Trump of charges that he obstructed justice, as Attorney General William P. Barr did last month — in fact, it shows that he certainly tried to interfere. “The President’s efforts to influence the investigation were mostly unsuccessful, but that is largely because the persons who surrounded the President declined to carry out orders or accede to his requests,” wrote Mr. Mueller’s team. “If we had confidence after a thorough investigation of the facts that the president clearly did not commit obstruction of justice,” they wrote, “we would so state.” Here’s some of what they’re describing: • For 13 days after Mr. Trump asked Mr. Session to resign in May 2017, the president held on to his resignation letter, showing it to aides on Air Force One, a decision that he was warned could function as a “shock collar” to influence the Justice Department. Finally, on May 30, the president returned the letter with a notation: “Not accepted.” • Mr. Trump repeatedly called Donald F. McGahn II, the White House counsel, at home and ordered that he have Mr. Mueller removed. Mr. McGahn didn’t follow the direction, deciding he would rather resign than trigger what he regarded as a potential “Saturday Night Massacre.” • Perhaps the most damning: After reports that the president directed Mr. McGahn to remove Mr. Mueller circulated in the press in early 2018, Mr. Trump asked Mr. McGahn to deny the stories — showing that he was trying to craft a false narrative in the press about his actions. Mr. McGahn refused. Here’s a full look at the key moments in the investigation into whether Mr. Trump obstructed justice. What, exactly, is this thing? The two-volume document is a redacted version of the report written by Mr. Mueller, the special counsel, presenting the findings of his team’s investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election, and into Mr. Trump’s possible effort to influence the outcome. Mr. Barr, the attorney general, released a four-page summary of Mr. Mueller’s report last month, in which he said the investigation did not find that the Trump campaign had colluded with the Russian government and cleared the president of the charge of obstruction of justice. He reiterated those conclusions in a news conference Thursday morning before the report was released. A lot of Democrats were skeptical of Mr. Barr’s summary — particularly on the obstruction issue — and pushed for the release of the full report. What’s up with all the redactions? Mr. Barr has said the redactions — or blacked out portions of the report — were necessary to protect sensitive information, grand jury information and third parties who could be unfairly damaged. He color-coded them, using different colors to represent different types of redactions. (They have, of course, already become a meme.) A less-redacted version will be made available to a bipartisan group of congressional leaders, Mr. Barr said Thursday. What comes next? Democrats said they’re going to push for an unredacted version of the report and the underlying evidence, an effort that’s likely to end up in court — possibly the Supreme Court. Mr. Barr wants to investigate the origins of the F.B.I. investigation into Russia’s election interference, while Democrats in Congress want to probe the special counsel, attorney general and Mr. Trump’s behavior. Mr. Barr is already scheduled to testify before Congress in early May; the House Judiciary Committee said Thursday they’ll call Mr. Mueller, too. And lawmakers in the House and Senate are busy with their own investigations into matters related to the inquiry. “The responsibility now falls to Congress to hold the president accountable for his actions,” said Representative Jerry Nadler, the House judiciary chairman. Is this going to change anyone’s mind about the president? Probably not. Mr. Trump’s approval ratings have barely budged since Mr. Barr issued his summary, which left voters nearly evenly split over whether Mr. Trump had committed any serious wrongdoing — a reflection of the partisan divide over the issue. In a Washington Post-Schar School poll released last month, 51 percent of respondents said the investigation will have no effect on their 2020 vote. We know from a variety of polls that the investigation isn’t a priority for voters on either side, who are far more likely to list health care and the economy as major issues. And we also know that impeachment proceedings seem unlikely, as Speaker Nancy Pelosi signaled last month. Yes, parts of the report show Mr. Trump in an unflattering light. (He lies to aides, tries to get Mrs. Clinton’s emails and yells at his staff. A lot.) but are Americans really going to read all the fine print? [Sign up here to get On Politics in your inbox.] • Read the full report here. • Mr. Barr has played a large part in the report’s release, and has become a target of Democrats. Here are five things to know about him. • Mr. Mueller did not come to a conclusion on the charge of obstruction. But he left the door open to the possibility that after Mr. Trump leaves office, prosecutors could re-examine the evidence gathered and charge him. • Democrats running for president reacted to the day’s events, though they mostly focused on Mr. Barr’s news conference Thursday morning. • Here’s how writers on the left, right and center of the political spectrum responded to thereport. To give you a sense of scale, here’s the whole Mueller report on one page. _____________________ Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox. Thanks for reading. Politics is more than what goes on inside the White House. On Politics brings you the people, issues and ideas reshaping our world. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.Supported by I am rooting for a demonstration to the world that the United States justice system works. By James Comey Mr. Comey is a former director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The country is eagerly awaiting the special counsel Robert Mueller’s report. Many people know what they want it to say — what they feel it simply must say — namely, that Donald Trump is a criminal who should be removed from office. Or that he is completely innocent of all wrongdoing. But not everyone knows what it “must” say. Even though I believe Mr. Trump is morally unfit to be president of the United States, I’m not rooting for Mr. Mueller to demonstrate that he is a criminal. I’m also not rooting for Mr. Mueller to “clear” the president. I’m not rooting for anything at all, except that the special counsel be permitted to finish his work, charge whatever cases warrant charging and report on his work. President Trump’s constant attacks on the special counsel, the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Justice Department over the past two years raised the prospect that he would interfere to stop the special counsel’s work. It is deeply concerning that the president of the United States would try to protect himself by torching the institutions of justice. But he hasn’t used his authority to end Mr. Mueller’s work. (That would have been a crisis of a different order — shutting down the investigation, rather than just trying to undermine its credibility.) So we are in a position to wonder and hope about the report’s content. Wondering is fine. But hoping for a particular answer is not. The rule of law depends upon fair administration of justice, which is rooted in complete and unbiased investigation. We are best served when an investigation finds all relevant facts and illuminates the fullest possible view of the truth. I have no idea whether the special counsel will conclude that Mr. Trump knowingly conspired with the Russians in connection with the 2016 election or that he obstructed justice with the required corrupt intent. I also don’t care. I care only that the work be done, well and completely. If it is, justice will have prevailed and core American values will have been protected at a time when so much of our national leadership has abandoned its commitment to truth and the rule of law. I am rooting for a demonstration to the world — and maybe most of all to our president and his enablers — that the United States has a justice system that works because there are people who believe in it and rise above personal interest and tribalism. That system may reach conclusions they like or it may not, but the apolitical administration of justice is the beating heart of this country. I hope we all get to see that. The interests of justice will also be best served by maximum transparency about the special counsel’s work. I don’t know all the considerations that will go into deciding precisely what to say about the completion of that work and when to say it. But because the Department of Justice is guided first and always by the public interest, it should provide details about finished investigations when the public needs to know them, as it traditionally has. I do have one hope that I should confess. I hope that Mr. Trump is not impeached and removed from office before the end of his term. I don’t mean that Congress shouldn’t move ahead with the process of impeachment governed by our Constitution, if Congress thinks the provable facts are there. I just hope it doesn’t. Because if Mr. Trump were removed from office by Congress, a significant portion of this country would see this as a coup, and it would drive those people farther from the common center of American life, more deeply fracturing our country. Critics of Mr. Trump should hope for something much harder to distort, or to nurse as a grievance, than an impeachment. We need a resounding election result in 2020, where Americans of all stripes, divided as they may be about important policy issues — immigration, guns, abortion, climate change, regulation, taxes — take a moment from their busy lives to show that they are united by something even more important: the belief that the president of the United States cannot be a chronic liar who repeatedly attacks the rule of law. Then we can get back to policy disagreements. I just hope we are up to it. James Comey is a former director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the author of “A Higher Loyalty: Truth, Lies, and Leadership.” The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported by I am rooting for a demonstration to the world that the United States justice system works. By James Comey Mr. Comey is a former director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The country is eagerly awaiting the special counsel Robert Mueller’s report. Many people know what they want it to say — what they feel it simply must say — namely, that Donald Trump is a criminal who should be removed from office. Or that he is completely innocent of all wrongdoing. But not everyone knows what it “must” say. Even though I believe Mr. Trump is morally unfit to be president of the United States, I’m not rooting for Mr. Mueller to demonstrate that he is a criminal. I’m also not rooting for Mr. Mueller to “clear” the president. I’m not rooting for anything at all, except that the special counsel be permitted to finish his work, charge whatever cases warrant charging and report on his work. President Trump’s constant attacks on the special counsel, the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Justice Department over the past two years raised the prospect that he would interfere to stop the special counsel’s work. It is deeply concerning that the president of the United States would try to protect himself by torching the institutions of justice. But he hasn’t used his authority to end Mr. Mueller’s work. (That would have been a crisis of a different order — shutting down the investigation, rather than just trying to undermine its credibility.) So we are in a position to wonder and hope about the report’s content. Wondering is fine. But hoping for a particular answer is not. The rule of law depends upon fair administration of justice, which is rooted in complete and unbiased investigation. We are best served when an investigation finds all relevant facts and illuminates the fullest possible view of the truth. I have no idea whether the special counsel will conclude that Mr. Trump knowingly conspired with the Russians in connection with the 2016 election or that he obstructed justice with the required corrupt intent. I also don’t care. I care only that the work be done, well and completely. If it is, justice will have prevailed and core American values will have been protected at a time when so much of our national leadership has abandoned its commitment to truth and the rule of law. I am rooting for a demonstration to the world — and maybe most of all to our president and his enablers — that the United States has a justice system that works because there are people who believe in it and rise above personal interest and tribalism. That system may reach conclusions they like or it may not, but the apolitical administration of justice is the beating heart of this country. I hope we all get to see that. The interests of justice will also be best served by maximum transparency about the special counsel’s work. I don’t know all the considerations that will go into deciding precisely what to say about the completion of that work and when to say it. But because the Department of Justice is guided first and always by the public interest, it should provide details about finished investigations when the public needs to know them, as it traditionally has. I do have one hope that I should confess. I hope that Mr. Trump is not impeached and removed from office before the end of his term. I don’t mean that Congress shouldn’t move ahead with the process of impeachment governed by our Constitution, if Congress thinks the provable facts are there. I just hope it doesn’t. Because if Mr. Trump were removed from office by Congress, a significant portion of this country would see this as a coup, and it would drive those people farther from the common center of American life, more deeply fracturing our country. Critics of Mr. Trump should hope for something much harder to distort, or to nurse as a grievance, than an impeachment. We need a resounding election result in 2020, where Americans of all stripes, divided as they may be about important policy issues — immigration, guns, abortion, climate change, regulation, taxes — take a moment from their busy lives to show that they are united by something even more important: the belief that the president of the United States cannot be a chronic liar who repeatedly attacks the rule of law. Then we can get back to policy disagreements. I just hope we are up to it. James Comey is a former director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the author of “A Higher Loyalty: Truth, Lies, and Leadership.” The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — For nearly two years, President Donald Trump and his allies sought to undermine special counsel Robert Mueller's Russia probe, attacking investigators' credibility and playing down their findings. As a redacted version of Mueller's report was finally released Thursday, Trump resorted to bluster, broadsides and falsehoods to try, once more, to frame the moment as a political victory. It began even before the public glimpsed the two volumes covering 448 pages . The report included an account of how the president attempted to seize control of the investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 U.S. election and force out Mueller from leading the inquiry. But that didn't stop Trump from taking a public victory lap, declaring at a White House event that he was having "a good day." Twelve times Trump took to Twitter in the hours before Attorney General William Barr outlined the findings of the report. The president proclaimed his innocence and insisted that the investigation was politically motivated. As soon as Barr concluded his remarks, and more than an hour before Mueller's report was released, Trump tweeted a taunt over an image inspired by the HBO show "Game of Thrones." "No Collusion. No Obstruction," it said. "For the haters and the radical left Democrats — Game Over." But the report does recount how Trump repeatedly sought to intervene in a probe that has hovered over the first two years of his presidency. And it says Trump had been agitated by the investigation from the start, reporting that Trump reacted to Mueller's appointment by saying it was the "end of his presidency." At Justice Department headquarters, reporters buzzed around as they awaited Barr and then the Mueller report. A few blocks away, there was calm on one of the defining days of Trump's presidency. The news media were led into the White House East Room, just before the report came out, for Trump's appearance with wounded warriors. While newsrooms across the country digested the report, the White House guests, already seated while waiting for the president to arrive, were entertained by the U.S. Marine Band. Among the selections played: "Somewhere Over the Rainbow." "Knockout," read a text message from Rudy Giuliani, one of the president's attorneys, to reporters after Barr finished speaking. A further statement from Giuliani and Trump's lawyers said "the report itself is nothing more than an attempt to rehash old allegations" and insisted that "the results of the investigation are a total victory for the president." Current and former White House officials eagerly rushed through the report. They scanned for their names to see what Mueller had said about them and how he had characterized their testimony, and wondered how those depictions might sit with a mercurial president. Staffers had been told by the White House to cooperate fully with Mueller's team and answer their questions truthfully. But many were nervous about how Trump would react to their testimony and whether it would damage their relationships with him. Talking points went out to Trump allies while his supporters' phones buzzed with text messages from the campaign looking to raise money off Thursday's developments. "Now the tables have turned, and it's time to investigate the liars who instigated this sham investigation into President Trump, motivated by political retribution and based on no evidence whatsoever," said Trump's re-election campaign manager, Brad Parscale. Donald Trump Jr, the president's eldest son, was featured prominently in the report for meeting with a Kremlin-connected lawyer at Trump Tower in June 2016. Though the report said "the campaign anticipated receiving derogatory documents and information" from Russians that "could assist Trump's electoral prospects," it said "the government would unlikely be able to prove beyond a reasonable doubt" that the participants at that meeting "had general knowledge that their conduct was unlawful." Though a seemingly backhanded exoneration, the younger Trump tweeted a series of attacks on Democrats. "Better luck next hoax!" he said. Senior White House adviser Kellyanne Conway said that because the White House didn't interfere with Mueller's work, that "should make people feel good about democracy." "We're accepting apologies today, too," Conway told reporters, adding that Trump watched Barr, talked to his lawyers and was in "a great mood." The president, who normally talks to reporters on his way out of the White House, declined to speak as he left to spend the Easter weekend in Florida. But from Air Force One, he tweeted: "I had the right to end the whole Witch Hunt if I wanted. I could have fired everyone, including Mueller, if I wanted. I chose not to. I had the RIGHT to use Executive Privilege. I didn't!" Appearing relaxed earlier Friday at a military event, Trump said a statue he'd been presented with as a memento would have a permanent home "at least for six years, in the Oval Office." As the audience applauded and laughed, Trump said he was going to joke and say "at least for 10 or 14 years, but we would cause bedlam if I said that." ___ Lemire reported from New York. ___ Follow Lemire on Twitter at http://twitter.com/@JonLemire , Colvin at http://twitter.com/@colvinj and Superville at http://twitter.com/@dsupervilleap ___ For complete coverage of the Mueller report, go to: https://www.apnews.com/TrumpInvestigations

Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — For nearly two years, President Donald Trump and his allies sought to undermine special counsel Robert Mueller's Russia probe, attacking investigators' credibility and playing down their findings. As a redacted version of Mueller's report was finally released Thursday, Trump resorted to bluster, broadsides and falsehoods to try, once more, to frame the moment as a political victory. It began even before the public glimpsed the two volumes covering 448 pages . The report included an account of how the president attempted to seize control of the investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 U.S. election and force out Mueller from leading the inquiry. But that didn't stop Trump from taking a public victory lap, declaring at a White House event that he was having "a good day." Twelve times Trump took to Twitter in the hours before Attorney General William Barr outlined the findings of the report. The president proclaimed his innocence and insisted that the investigation was politically motivated. As soon as Barr concluded his remarks, and more than an hour before Mueller's report was released, Trump tweeted a taunt over an image inspired by the HBO show "Game of Thrones." "No Collusion. No Obstruction," it said. "For the haters and the radical left Democrats — Game Over." But the report does recount how Trump repeatedly sought to intervene in a probe that has hovered over the first two years of his presidency. And it says Trump had been agitated by the investigation from the start, reporting that Trump reacted to Mueller's appointment by saying it was the "end of his presidency." At Justice Department headquarters, reporters buzzed around as they awaited Barr and then the Mueller report. A few blocks away, there was calm on one of the defining days of Trump's presidency. The news media were led into the White House East Room, just before the report came out, for Trump's appearance with wounded warriors. While newsrooms across the country digested the report, the White House guests, already seated while waiting for the president to arrive, were entertained by the U.S. Marine Band. Among the selections played: "Somewhere Over the Rainbow." "Knockout," read a text message from Rudy Giuliani, one of the president's attorneys, to reporters after Barr finished speaking. A further statement from Giuliani and Trump's lawyers said "the report itself is nothing more than an attempt to rehash old allegations" and insisted that "the results of the investigation are a total victory for the president." Current and former White House officials eagerly rushed through the report. They scanned for their names to see what Mueller had said about them and how he had characterized their testimony, and wondered how those depictions might sit with a mercurial president. Staffers had been told by the White House to cooperate fully with Mueller's team and answer their questions truthfully. But many were nervous about how Trump would react to their testimony and whether it would damage their relationships with him. Talking points went out to Trump allies while his supporters' phones buzzed with text messages from the campaign looking to raise money off Thursday's developments. "Now the tables have turned, and it's time to investigate the liars who instigated this sham investigation into President Trump, motivated by political retribution and based on no evidence whatsoever," said Trump's re-election campaign manager, Brad Parscale. Donald Trump Jr, the president's eldest son, was featured prominently in the report for meeting with a Kremlin-connected lawyer at Trump Tower in June 2016. Though the report said "the campaign anticipated receiving derogatory documents and information" from Russians that "could assist Trump's electoral prospects," it said "the government would unlikely be able to prove beyond a reasonable doubt" that the participants at that meeting "had general knowledge that their conduct was unlawful." Though a seemingly backhanded exoneration, the younger Trump tweeted a series of attacks on Democrats. "Better luck next hoax!" he said. Senior White House adviser Kellyanne Conway said that because the White House didn't interfere with Mueller's work, that "should make people feel good about democracy." "We're accepting apologies today, too," Conway told reporters, adding that Trump watched Barr, talked to his lawyers and was in "a great mood." The president, who normally talks to reporters on his way out of the White House, declined to speak as he left to spend the Easter weekend in Florida. But from Air Force One, he tweeted: "I had the right to end the whole Witch Hunt if I wanted. I could have fired everyone, including Mueller, if I wanted. I chose not to. I had the RIGHT to use Executive Privilege. I didn't!" Appearing relaxed earlier Friday at a military event, Trump said a statue he'd been presented with as a memento would have a permanent home "at least for six years, in the Oval Office." As the audience applauded and laughed, Trump said he was going to joke and say "at least for 10 or 14 years, but we would cause bedlam if I said that." ___ Lemire reported from New York. ___ Follow Lemire on Twitter at http://twitter.com/@JonLemire , Colvin at http://twitter.com/@colvinj and Superville at http://twitter.com/@dsupervilleap ___ For complete coverage of the Mueller report, go to: https://www.apnews.com/TrumpInvestigationsSupported by By The Associated Press NEW YORK — With the Mueller Report finally out Thursday, at least in redacted form, publishers are hurrying to release book editions. Two Mueller Report books are in the top 15 on Amazon.com even though free pdfs are available online. The special prosecutor's findings, which run more than 400 pages, concluded that he could not find criminal evidence of conspiracy between the Donald Trump 2016 presidential campaign and Russia's government but could not rule out the possibility that Trump may have obstructed justice after he won the 2016 election. Scribner, Melville House and Skyhorse Publishing are among those planning to have paperbacks out before the end of the month, with prices ranging from $15 for the Scribner book to $9.99 for the Melville House one, and e-books out by the end of the week. Barnes & Noble expects to have a free download for its Nook e-reader on Thursday. The Amazon-owned Audible Inc. plans a free audiobook. By Thursday night, the Skyhorse version was No. 9 and Scribner No. 14 on Amazon's bestseller list. Melville House had climbed from No. 324 earlier in the day to 74. Government reports have been a highly specialized niche in the book world for decades. They are public documents, often available for free and open for anyone to publish. But some releases are so intensely anticipated, among them the Warren Commission study of former President John F. Kennedy's assassination and the 9-11 Commission Report, they become best sellers. The 9-11 report was even nominated for a National Book Award. The Mueller report will likely have a substantial paying audience because of enormous public interest and because nonfiction works tend to sell predominantly in paper form. Scribner and Skyhorse also hope to attract readers with additional material, some of which they are hurrying to complete over the next couple of days. Skyhorse editorial director Mark Gompertz said that Alan Dershowitz, the attorney and frequent Trump defender, was "the fastest reader and writer we have ever worked with" and was expected to finish an introduction for the Mueller book by Thursday night. The Scribner book, expected to exceed 700 pages, is being prepared in conjunction with The Washington Post. Some material, including a timeline of the investigation, has already been prepared. The Post is working on an introduction that will provide analysis of the report, and a combination of Post reporters and professional narrators will work on an audio edition. "We're going as fast as we can," says Colin Harrison, Scribner's editor-in-chief. The industry suffered from printing shortages last fall and winter, with such works as David W. Blight's Pulitzer Prize-winning biography unavailable for weeks. But Harrison says that Scribner can easily meet its announced first printing of 350,000. "The planning for this has been in the works for a long time," he says. "We're even prepared to go back to press, expeditiously, for more books. We have the paper. We're ready."

Supported by By The Associated Press NEW YORK — With the Mueller Report finally out Thursday, at least in redacted form, publishers are hurrying to release book editions. Two Mueller Report books are in the top 15 on Amazon.com even though free pdfs are available online. The special prosecutor's findings, which run more than 400 pages, concluded that he could not find criminal evidence of conspiracy between the Donald Trump 2016 presidential campaign and Russia's government but could not rule out the possibility that Trump may have obstructed justice after he won the 2016 election. Scribner, Melville House and Skyhorse Publishing are among those planning to have paperbacks out before the end of the month, with prices ranging from $15 for the Scribner book to $9.99 for the Melville House one, and e-books out by the end of the week. Barnes & Noble expects to have a free download for its Nook e-reader on Thursday. The Amazon-owned Audible Inc. plans a free audiobook. By Thursday night, the Skyhorse version was No. 9 and Scribner No. 14 on Amazon's bestseller list. Melville House had climbed from No. 324 earlier in the day to 74. Government reports have been a highly specialized niche in the book world for decades. They are public documents, often available for free and open for anyone to publish. But some releases are so intensely anticipated, among them the Warren Commission study of former President John F. Kennedy's assassination and the 9-11 Commission Report, they become best sellers. The 9-11 report was even nominated for a National Book Award. The Mueller report will likely have a substantial paying audience because of enormous public interest and because nonfiction works tend to sell predominantly in paper form. Scribner and Skyhorse also hope to attract readers with additional material, some of which they are hurrying to complete over the next couple of days. Skyhorse editorial director Mark Gompertz said that Alan Dershowitz, the attorney and frequent Trump defender, was "the fastest reader and writer we have ever worked with" and was expected to finish an introduction for the Mueller book by Thursday night. The Scribner book, expected to exceed 700 pages, is being prepared in conjunction with The Washington Post. Some material, including a timeline of the investigation, has already been prepared. The Post is working on an introduction that will provide analysis of the report, and a combination of Post reporters and professional narrators will work on an audio edition. "We're going as fast as we can," says Colin Harrison, Scribner's editor-in-chief. The industry suffered from printing shortages last fall and winter, with such works as David W. Blight's Pulitzer Prize-winning biography unavailable for weeks. But Harrison says that Scribner can easily meet its announced first printing of 350,000. "The planning for this has been in the works for a long time," he says. "We're even prepared to go back to press, expeditiously, for more books. We have the paper. We're ready."Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump's longtime confidant, Roger Stone, asked a federal judge Friday to compel the Justice Department to turn over a full copy of special counsel Robert Mueller's report on the Russia investigation as part of discovery in his criminal case. Stone has pleaded not guilty to charges he lied to Congress, engaged in witness tampering and obstructed a congressional investigation into possible coordination between Russia and Donald Trump's 2016 presidential campaign. In a court filing late Friday night, his lawyers said Stone is entitled to see the confidential report — which was submitted to the attorney general late last month — because it would help prove their allegation that there are constitutional issues with the investigation. In a separate action, a former aide to Stone who was subpoenaed to testify before a grand jury asked a federal appeals court to determine whether he still needs to testify now that the Russia probe has concluded. Stone's team also filed motions Friday night arguing he was selectively prosecuted, challenging the constitutionality of Mueller's appointment and that the special counsel didn't have the ability to prosecute him for lying to Congress. They allege that Congress did not formally make a referral to the Justice Department about Stone's testimony and because of that, Mueller's investigation was "a violation of the separation of powers." In court documents, the lawyers argue they are entitled to a private disclosure of the nearly 400-page report that Mueller submitted to Attorney General William Barr late last month and said they "must be allowed to review the Report in its entirety because it contains the government's evidence and conclusions on matters essential to Stone's defense." "To be clear, Stone is not requesting the Report be disclosed to the world - only to his counsel so that it may aid in preparing his defense," the lawyers wrote. Stone, who is set to go on trial in November, has maintained his innocence and blasted the special counsel's investigation as politically motivated. He has pleaded not guilty to the charges, which stem from conversations he had during the campaign about WikiLeaks, the anti-secrecy group that released material stolen from Democratic groups, including Hillary Clinton's campaign. In a four-page letter to Congress that detailed Mueller's "principal conclusions," Barr said the special counsel did not find a criminal conspiracy between Russia and Trump associates during the campaign, but did not reach a definitive conclusion on whether Trump obstructed justice. Instead, Mueller presented evidence on both sides of the obstruction question, but Barr said he did not believe the evidence was sufficient to prove that Trump had obstructed justice. Barr has said he expects to release a redacted version of Mueller's report next week that will be sent to Congress and made public. In the separate case, Andrew Miller, a former Stone aide, filed a petition with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia over the subpoena he was issued in Mueller's investigation. Last year, Mueller's team sought Miller's testimony regarding Stone, WikiLeaks and the Russian government-controlled online persona Guccifer 2.0, which was used to release hacked material during the 2016 election. But Miller challenged his grand jury subpoena, arguing that Mueller's appointment was unconstitutional. Earlier this year a three-judge panel of the court upheld the special counsel's appointment and a contempt order intended to force Miller to testify. In the new petition, Miller's attorney, Paul Kamenar, argued that the matter now appears to be moot because Stone has been indicted and like "Cinderella's carriage that turned into a pumpkin at midnight, special counsel Mueller's authority expired." Kamenar is now asking the court to have the government formally say whether it will still pursue Miller's testimony. If that's the case, Kamenar is asking for a rehearing of the case. He said in a statement that he will take the fight to the Supreme Court if necessary. ___ Read the petition: http://apne.ws/rQRdegR

Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump's longtime confidant, Roger Stone, asked a federal judge Friday to compel the Justice Department to turn over a full copy of special counsel Robert Mueller's report on the Russia investigation as part of discovery in his criminal case. Stone has pleaded not guilty to charges he lied to Congress, engaged in witness tampering and obstructed a congressional investigation into possible coordination between Russia and Donald Trump's 2016 presidential campaign. In a court filing late Friday night, his lawyers said Stone is entitled to see the confidential report — which was submitted to the attorney general late last month — because it would help prove their allegation that there are constitutional issues with the investigation. In a separate action, a former aide to Stone who was subpoenaed to testify before a grand jury asked a federal appeals court to determine whether he still needs to testify now that the Russia probe has concluded. Stone's team also filed motions Friday night arguing he was selectively prosecuted, challenging the constitutionality of Mueller's appointment and that the special counsel didn't have the ability to prosecute him for lying to Congress. They allege that Congress did not formally make a referral to the Justice Department about Stone's testimony and because of that, Mueller's investigation was "a violation of the separation of powers." In court documents, the lawyers argue they are entitled to a private disclosure of the nearly 400-page report that Mueller submitted to Attorney General William Barr late last month and said they "must be allowed to review the Report in its entirety because it contains the government's evidence and conclusions on matters essential to Stone's defense." "To be clear, Stone is not requesting the Report be disclosed to the world - only to his counsel so that it may aid in preparing his defense," the lawyers wrote. Stone, who is set to go on trial in November, has maintained his innocence and blasted the special counsel's investigation as politically motivated. He has pleaded not guilty to the charges, which stem from conversations he had during the campaign about WikiLeaks, the anti-secrecy group that released material stolen from Democratic groups, including Hillary Clinton's campaign. In a four-page letter to Congress that detailed Mueller's "principal conclusions," Barr said the special counsel did not find a criminal conspiracy between Russia and Trump associates during the campaign, but did not reach a definitive conclusion on whether Trump obstructed justice. Instead, Mueller presented evidence on both sides of the obstruction question, but Barr said he did not believe the evidence was sufficient to prove that Trump had obstructed justice. Barr has said he expects to release a redacted version of Mueller's report next week that will be sent to Congress and made public. In the separate case, Andrew Miller, a former Stone aide, filed a petition with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia over the subpoena he was issued in Mueller's investigation. Last year, Mueller's team sought Miller's testimony regarding Stone, WikiLeaks and the Russian government-controlled online persona Guccifer 2.0, which was used to release hacked material during the 2016 election. But Miller challenged his grand jury subpoena, arguing that Mueller's appointment was unconstitutional. Earlier this year a three-judge panel of the court upheld the special counsel's appointment and a contempt order intended to force Miller to testify. In the new petition, Miller's attorney, Paul Kamenar, argued that the matter now appears to be moot because Stone has been indicted and like "Cinderella's carriage that turned into a pumpkin at midnight, special counsel Mueller's authority expired." Kamenar is now asking the court to have the government formally say whether it will still pursue Miller's testimony. If that's the case, Kamenar is asking for a rehearing of the case. He said in a statement that he will take the fight to the Supreme Court if necessary. ___ Read the petition: http://apne.ws/rQRdegRSupported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — Special counsel Robert Mueller all but boldfaced this finding in his report on the Russia investigation: No exoneration for President Donald Trump on whether Trump criminally obstructed justice. But Trump and his aides are stating that Mueller's report did exonerate. No words from the report will throw them off their mischaracterization of it. A look at claims by Trump and his people on a variety of subjects from the week that produced the Mueller report, which cleared Trump of criminal conspiracy with Russia, traced multiple ways he tried to interfere in the Russia inquiry to his benefit and came to no conclusion on whether those acts broke the law. RUSSIA INVESTIGATION TRUMP: "The end result of the greatest Witch Hunt in U.S. political history is No Collusion with Russia (and No Obstruction). Pretty Amazing! — tweet Saturday. VICE PRESIDENT MIKE PENCE: "Today's release of the Special Counsel's report confirms what the President and I have said since day one: there was no collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia and there was no obstruction of justice." — statement Thursday. KELLYANNE CONWAY, White House counselor: "What matters is what the Department of Justice and special counsel concluded here, which is no collusion, no obstruction, and complete exoneration, as the president says." — remarks Thursday to reporters. THE FACTS: The special counsel's 400-plus-page report specifically does not exonerate Trump, leaving open the question of whether the president obstructed justice. "If we had confidence after a thorough investigation of the facts that the President clearly did not commit obstruction of justice, we would so state," Mueller wrote. "Based on the facts and the applicable legal standards, however, we are unable to reach that judgment." The report identifies 10 instances of possible obstruction by Trump and said he might have "had a motive" to impede the investigation because of what it could find on a variety of personal matters, such as his proposal to build a Trump Tower in Moscow. "The evidence does indicate that a thorough FBI investigation would uncover facts about the campaign and the President personally that the President could have understood to be crimes or that would give rise to personal and political concerns," the report states. In explaining its decision, Mueller's team said reaching a conclusion on whether Trump committed crimes would be inappropriate because of a Justice Department legal opinion indicating that a sitting president should not be prosecuted. It nevertheless left open at least the theoretical possibility that Trump could be charged after he leaves office, noting that its factual investigation was conducted "in order to preserve the evidence when memories were fresh and documentary material were available." "Accordingly, while this report does not conclude that the President committed a crime, it also does not exonerate him," the report states. ___ SARAH SANDERS, White House press secretary, on her statements from 2017 that many people in the FBI wanted James Comey, the director, fired: "The sentiment is 100% accurate." — "CBS This Morning," Friday. THE FACTS: Her answer on this subject was far different when she gave it under oath. After Trump fired Comey, she told reporters on May 10, 2017, that "the rank and file of the FBI had lost confidence in their director" and "accordingly" the president removed him. When a reporter said most FBI agents supported Comey, Sanders said, "Look, we've heard from countless members of the FBI that say very different things." But when Mueller's team interviewed her under oath, she backed off that story. According to the Mueller report, she said it was a "slip of the tongue" to say that countless FBI people wanted Comey out, that her statement about the rank and file losing confidence in him was offered "in the heat of the moment" and that, in the report's words, it "was not founded on anything." Now she's back to suggesting that Comey was in fact unpopular in the FBI. "I said that it was in the heat of the moment, meaning it wasn't a scripted thing," she said Friday. "But the big takeaway here is that the sentiment is 100% accurate." The Mueller report says there is "no evidence" that Trump heard complaints about Comey's leadership from FBI employees before firing him. Mueller evaluated nearly a dozen episodes for possible obstruction of justice and said he could not conclusively determine that Trump had committed criminal obstruction. Among those episodes was his manner of firing Comey. Mueller found "substantial evidence" corroborating Comey's account of a dinner at which he said Trump pressed him for his loyalty. Although Sanders attributed her remark about Comey's unpopularity to "heat of the moment," Trump has voiced the same sentiment. As recently as January, he tweeted: "The rank and file of the FBI are great people who are disgusted with what they are learning about Lyin' James Comey and the so-called 'leaders' of the FBI." __ ATTORNEY GENERAL WILLIAM BARR, asked if Mueller intended for Congress, not the attorney general, to decide whether Trump obstructed justice: "Well, special counsel Mueller did not indicate that his purpose was to leave the decision to Congress. I hope that was not his view. ... I didn't talk to him directly about the fact that we were making the decision, but I am told that his reaction to that was that it was my prerogative as attorney general to make that decision." THE FACTS: Mueller's report actually does indicate that Congress could make that determination. The report states that no person is above the law, including the president, and that the Constitution "does not categorically and permanently immunize a President for obstructing justice." In his four-page memo last month, Barr said while Mueller left open the question of whether Trump broke the law and obstructed the investigation, Barr was ultimately deciding as attorney general that the evidence developed by Mueller was "not sufficient" to establish, for the purposes of prosecution, that Trump obstructed justice. But the special counsel's report specifies that Congress can also render a judgment on that question. It says: "The conclusion that Congress may apply obstruction laws to the President's corrupt exercise of the powers of office accords with our constitutional system of checks and balances and the principle that no person is above the law." ___ BARR: "These reports are not supposed to be made public." — remarks Thursday at the Justice Department. THE FACTS: The attorney general is not going out on a limb for public disclosure. Justice Department regulations give Barr wide authority to release a special counsel's report in situations it "would be in the public interest." Barr had made clear during his Senate confirmation hearing in January that he believed in transparency with the report on Mueller's investigation into Russian election interference during the 2016 campaign, "consistent with regulations and the law." ___ BARR, saying it was "consistent with long-standing practice" for him to share a copy of the redacted report with the White House and president's attorneys before its release: "Earlier this week, the president's personal counsel requested and were given the opportunity to read a final version of the redacted report before it was publicly released. That request was consistent with the practice followed under the Ethics in Government Act, which permitted individuals named in a report prepared by an independent counsel the opportunity to read the report before publication." — remarks Thursday. THE FACTS: Barr's decision, citing the Ethics in Government Act, is inconsistent with independent counsel Ken Starr's handling of his report into whether President Bill Clinton obstructed and lied in Starr's probe. On Sept. 7, 1998, Clinton's attorney David Kendall requested that Starr provide him an opportunity to review the report before it was sent to Congress. Starr quickly turned him down. "As a matter of legal interpretation, I respectfully disagree with your analysis," Starr wrote to Kendall two days later. Starr called Kendall "mistaken" regarding the rights of the president's attorneys to "review a 'report' before it is transmitted to Congress." Starr's report was governed by the ethics act cited by Barr as his justification for showing the report to the president's team. It has since expired. Current regulations governing Mueller's work don't specify how confidential information should be shared with the White House. Starr's report led to the impeachment trial of Clinton in 1999. ___ ECONOMY TRUMP: "We cut your taxes. Biggest tax cut in history."— remarks Monday in Burnsville, Minnesota. THE FACTS: His tax cuts are nowhere close to the biggest in U.S. history. It's a $1.5 trillion tax cut over 10 years. As a share of the total economy, a tax cut of that size ranks 12th, according to the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget. President Ronald Reagan's 1981 cut is the biggest followed by the 1945 rollback of taxes that financed World War II. Post-Reagan tax cuts also stand among the historically significant: President George W. Bush's cuts in the early 2000s and President Barack Obama's renewal of them a decade later. ___ TRUMP: "I believe it will be Crazy Bernie Sanders vs. Sleepy Joe Biden as the two finalists to run against maybe the best Economy in the history of our Country." — tweet Tuesday. TRUMP: "We may have the best economy we've ever had." — remarks in Minnesota. THE FACTS: The economy is healthy but not one of the best in history. Also, there are signs it is weakening after a spurt of growth last year. The economy expanded at an annual rate of 2.9 percent last year, a solid pace. But it was just the fastest in four years. In the late 1990s, growth topped 4 percent for four straight years, a level it has not yet reached under Trump. And growth even reached 7.2 percent in 1984. Independent economists widely expect slower growth this year as the effects of the Trump administration's tax cuts fade, trade tensions and slower global growth hold back exports, and higher interest rates make it more expensive to borrow to buy cars and homes. ___ Associated Press writers Josh Boak and Darlene Superville contributed to this report. ___ Find AP Fact Checks at http://apne.ws/2kbx8bd

Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — Special counsel Robert Mueller all but boldfaced this finding in his report on the Russia investigation: No exoneration for President Donald Trump on whether Trump criminally obstructed justice. But Trump and his aides are stating that Mueller's report did exonerate. No words from the report will throw them off their mischaracterization of it. A look at claims by Trump and his people on a variety of subjects from the week that produced the Mueller report, which cleared Trump of criminal conspiracy with Russia, traced multiple ways he tried to interfere in the Russia inquiry to his benefit and came to no conclusion on whether those acts broke the law. RUSSIA INVESTIGATION TRUMP: "The end result of the greatest Witch Hunt in U.S. political history is No Collusion with Russia (and No Obstruction). Pretty Amazing! — tweet Saturday. VICE PRESIDENT MIKE PENCE: "Today's release of the Special Counsel's report confirms what the President and I have said since day one: there was no collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia and there was no obstruction of justice." — statement Thursday. KELLYANNE CONWAY, White House counselor: "What matters is what the Department of Justice and special counsel concluded here, which is no collusion, no obstruction, and complete exoneration, as the president says." — remarks Thursday to reporters. THE FACTS: The special counsel's 400-plus-page report specifically does not exonerate Trump, leaving open the question of whether the president obstructed justice. "If we had confidence after a thorough investigation of the facts that the President clearly did not commit obstruction of justice, we would so state," Mueller wrote. "Based on the facts and the applicable legal standards, however, we are unable to reach that judgment." The report identifies 10 instances of possible obstruction by Trump and said he might have "had a motive" to impede the investigation because of what it could find on a variety of personal matters, such as his proposal to build a Trump Tower in Moscow. "The evidence does indicate that a thorough FBI investigation would uncover facts about the campaign and the President personally that the President could have understood to be crimes or that would give rise to personal and political concerns," the report states. In explaining its decision, Mueller's team said reaching a conclusion on whether Trump committed crimes would be inappropriate because of a Justice Department legal opinion indicating that a sitting president should not be prosecuted. It nevertheless left open at least the theoretical possibility that Trump could be charged after he leaves office, noting that its factual investigation was conducted "in order to preserve the evidence when memories were fresh and documentary material were available." "Accordingly, while this report does not conclude that the President committed a crime, it also does not exonerate him," the report states. ___ SARAH SANDERS, White House press secretary, on her statements from 2017 that many people in the FBI wanted James Comey, the director, fired: "The sentiment is 100% accurate." — "CBS This Morning," Friday. THE FACTS: Her answer on this subject was far different when she gave it under oath. After Trump fired Comey, she told reporters on May 10, 2017, that "the rank and file of the FBI had lost confidence in their director" and "accordingly" the president removed him. When a reporter said most FBI agents supported Comey, Sanders said, "Look, we've heard from countless members of the FBI that say very different things." But when Mueller's team interviewed her under oath, she backed off that story. According to the Mueller report, she said it was a "slip of the tongue" to say that countless FBI people wanted Comey out, that her statement about the rank and file losing confidence in him was offered "in the heat of the moment" and that, in the report's words, it "was not founded on anything." Now she's back to suggesting that Comey was in fact unpopular in the FBI. "I said that it was in the heat of the moment, meaning it wasn't a scripted thing," she said Friday. "But the big takeaway here is that the sentiment is 100% accurate." The Mueller report says there is "no evidence" that Trump heard complaints about Comey's leadership from FBI employees before firing him. Mueller evaluated nearly a dozen episodes for possible obstruction of justice and said he could not conclusively determine that Trump had committed criminal obstruction. Among those episodes was his manner of firing Comey. Mueller found "substantial evidence" corroborating Comey's account of a dinner at which he said Trump pressed him for his loyalty. Although Sanders attributed her remark about Comey's unpopularity to "heat of the moment," Trump has voiced the same sentiment. As recently as January, he tweeted: "The rank and file of the FBI are great people who are disgusted with what they are learning about Lyin' James Comey and the so-called 'leaders' of the FBI." __ ATTORNEY GENERAL WILLIAM BARR, asked if Mueller intended for Congress, not the attorney general, to decide whether Trump obstructed justice: "Well, special counsel Mueller did not indicate that his purpose was to leave the decision to Congress. I hope that was not his view. ... I didn't talk to him directly about the fact that we were making the decision, but I am told that his reaction to that was that it was my prerogative as attorney general to make that decision." THE FACTS: Mueller's report actually does indicate that Congress could make that determination. The report states that no person is above the law, including the president, and that the Constitution "does not categorically and permanently immunize a President for obstructing justice." In his four-page memo last month, Barr said while Mueller left open the question of whether Trump broke the law and obstructed the investigation, Barr was ultimately deciding as attorney general that the evidence developed by Mueller was "not sufficient" to establish, for the purposes of prosecution, that Trump obstructed justice. But the special counsel's report specifies that Congress can also render a judgment on that question. It says: "The conclusion that Congress may apply obstruction laws to the President's corrupt exercise of the powers of office accords with our constitutional system of checks and balances and the principle that no person is above the law." ___ BARR: "These reports are not supposed to be made public." — remarks Thursday at the Justice Department. THE FACTS: The attorney general is not going out on a limb for public disclosure. Justice Department regulations give Barr wide authority to release a special counsel's report in situations it "would be in the public interest." Barr had made clear during his Senate confirmation hearing in January that he believed in transparency with the report on Mueller's investigation into Russian election interference during the 2016 campaign, "consistent with regulations and the law." ___ BARR, saying it was "consistent with long-standing practice" for him to share a copy of the redacted report with the White House and president's attorneys before its release: "Earlier this week, the president's personal counsel requested and were given the opportunity to read a final version of the redacted report before it was publicly released. That request was consistent with the practice followed under the Ethics in Government Act, which permitted individuals named in a report prepared by an independent counsel the opportunity to read the report before publication." — remarks Thursday. THE FACTS: Barr's decision, citing the Ethics in Government Act, is inconsistent with independent counsel Ken Starr's handling of his report into whether President Bill Clinton obstructed and lied in Starr's probe. On Sept. 7, 1998, Clinton's attorney David Kendall requested that Starr provide him an opportunity to review the report before it was sent to Congress. Starr quickly turned him down. "As a matter of legal interpretation, I respectfully disagree with your analysis," Starr wrote to Kendall two days later. Starr called Kendall "mistaken" regarding the rights of the president's attorneys to "review a 'report' before it is transmitted to Congress." Starr's report was governed by the ethics act cited by Barr as his justification for showing the report to the president's team. It has since expired. Current regulations governing Mueller's work don't specify how confidential information should be shared with the White House. Starr's report led to the impeachment trial of Clinton in 1999. ___ ECONOMY TRUMP: "We cut your taxes. Biggest tax cut in history."— remarks Monday in Burnsville, Minnesota. THE FACTS: His tax cuts are nowhere close to the biggest in U.S. history. It's a $1.5 trillion tax cut over 10 years. As a share of the total economy, a tax cut of that size ranks 12th, according to the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget. President Ronald Reagan's 1981 cut is the biggest followed by the 1945 rollback of taxes that financed World War II. Post-Reagan tax cuts also stand among the historically significant: President George W. Bush's cuts in the early 2000s and President Barack Obama's renewal of them a decade later. ___ TRUMP: "I believe it will be Crazy Bernie Sanders vs. Sleepy Joe Biden as the two finalists to run against maybe the best Economy in the history of our Country." — tweet Tuesday. TRUMP: "We may have the best economy we've ever had." — remarks in Minnesota. THE FACTS: The economy is healthy but not one of the best in history. Also, there are signs it is weakening after a spurt of growth last year. The economy expanded at an annual rate of 2.9 percent last year, a solid pace. But it was just the fastest in four years. In the late 1990s, growth topped 4 percent for four straight years, a level it has not yet reached under Trump. And growth even reached 7.2 percent in 1984. Independent economists widely expect slower growth this year as the effects of the Trump administration's tax cuts fade, trade tensions and slower global growth hold back exports, and higher interest rates make it more expensive to borrow to buy cars and homes. ___ Associated Press writers Josh Boak and Darlene Superville contributed to this report. ___ Find AP Fact Checks at http://apne.ws/2kbx8bdSupported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — Special Counsel Robert Mueller's 448-page report on Russia's meddling in the 2016 U.S. presidential election was publicly unveiled on Thursday, capping a 22-month investigation that President Donald Trump repeatedly labelled a "witch hunt." The inquiry found no evidence that Trump's 2016 campaign team engaged in a criminal conspiracy with Russia, and Mueller was unable to draw a conclusion on whether Trump committed obstruction of justice. Barr subsequently concluded that Trump did not commit the crime, but Mueller's report recounted 10 episodes involving Trump and evaluated whether obstruction of justice occurred. Here are likely next steps in a saga that has dogged Trump since his election and is likely to continue into 2020 as he seeks re-election: 2020 ELECTIONS Trump may try to campaign on the Mueller investigation, which many fellow Republicans think was an effort by the FBI to unseat him. His rallying cry that the investigation was a witch hunt to remove a democratically elected president could be effective in mobilizing his supporters, many of whom are already leery of Washington, to back him for a second term in office. Trump wasted no time trying to get the political edge on Thursday. Hours before Mueller's report was released he posted on Twitter: "The Greatest Political Hoax of all time! Crimes were committed by Crooked, Dirty Cops and DNC/The Democrats." Democratic presidential candidates have said little about the Mueller investigation, which has deeply divided an already polarized America. The question now is whether the release of the report will tempt them to comment, although that risks a bruising, and possibly losing, Twitter battle with Trump.  Polls show that voters are much more concerned about bread and butter issues surrounding the economy than the investigation. As a result, there may be little upside to Democratic candidates, especially in battleground districts dominated by moderate voters, seeking political advantage through the report. SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK Federal prosecutors in the Southern District of New York are examining Trump's business practices and financial dealings, according to testimony delivered to Congress in February by former Trump attorney Michael Cohen, who faces a three-year prison term for crimes related to payments arranged to women who claimed to have had affairs with Trump. The prosecutors have wider latitude to investigate than Mueller and they will be operating independent of him. New indictments by federal prosecutors in New York could overshadow the Mueller report.  IMPEACHMENT? The chances of Democrats in the House of Representatives moving to impeach Trump diminished last month when Barr announced Mueller had found no evidence of collusion with Russia. But the details of Mueller's findings might add new fuel for launching impeachment proceedings that have been conducted only three times in U.S. history.  An impeachment effort would focus on whether Trump may have committed "high crimes and misdemeanours." That is a broad definition that gives Congress greater latitude than Mueller's stricter investigative mandate. Nevertheless, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, the top U.S. Democrat, said weeks before the report's release that she opposes impeachment, saying it would be too divisive to the nation. Given that no Republicans have shown interest in impeachment so far, any such effort likely would fizzle in the Senate where their support would be needed for a conviction - unless the report changes some minds. Nevertheless, some liberal Democrats have continued to press for impeachment. REDACTION BACKLASH Many Democrats demanded a full report with no portions blacked out, or redacted. The House Judiciary Committee could issue subpoenas demanding the full, unredacted report and related documents, as well as testimony gathered by Mueller from some of Trump's former top White House aides. If that action is taken, it is not clear whether the Justice Department would comply with the subpoenas. If not, this struggle could end up being arbitrated by the U.S. Supreme Court. BARR/MUELLER TESTIMONY Attorney General William Barr, the nation's top law enforcement officer, is scheduled to testify before the House Judiciary Committee on May 2. Democrats will try to dig deeper into Mueller's findings, while Republicans likely will defend Trump and argue that Mueller's findings vindicate him. Mueller is expected to testify in an open House Judiciary Committee hearing, but not until after Barr's appearance. TRUMP'S TAX FORMS Besides reviewing Mueller's findings, Democrats are pursuing other avenues for congressional probes into Trump's dealings as a businessman before he became president and since he moved into the White House in 2017. For example, the House Ways and Means Committee set an April 23 deadline for the Treasury Department's Internal Revenue Service to provide six years of Trump's individual and business tax filings. Democrats think the forms could give clues to Trump's possible business dealings with Russia. Failure to meet that deadline could prompt the House to hold administration officials in contempt of Congress, triggering legal manoeuvres to get the agency to comply. OTHER CONGRESSIONAL INVESTIGATIONS The Republican-led Senate Intelligence Committee has yet to release findings of its own in-depth investigation of Russia's role in the 2016 elections. That could come later this year. Meanwhile, the House Intelligence Committee is ramping up its probe now that Democrats are in control. House Intelligence, Foreign Affairs and Oversight committees have been seeking documents relating to Trump's conversations with Russian President Vladimir Putin. The Oversight panel also has been looking into security clearance issues involving Trump's son-in-law Jared Kushner and others.  (Reporting by Richard Cowan; editing by Jonathan Oatis)

Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — Special Counsel Robert Mueller's 448-page report on Russia's meddling in the 2016 U.S. presidential election was publicly unveiled on Thursday, capping a 22-month investigation that President Donald Trump repeatedly labelled a "witch hunt." The inquiry found no evidence that Trump's 2016 campaign team engaged in a criminal conspiracy with Russia, and Mueller was unable to draw a conclusion on whether Trump committed obstruction of justice. Barr subsequently concluded that Trump did not commit the crime, but Mueller's report recounted 10 episodes involving Trump and evaluated whether obstruction of justice occurred. Here are likely next steps in a saga that has dogged Trump since his election and is likely to continue into 2020 as he seeks re-election: 2020 ELECTIONS Trump may try to campaign on the Mueller investigation, which many fellow Republicans think was an effort by the FBI to unseat him. His rallying cry that the investigation was a witch hunt to remove a democratically elected president could be effective in mobilizing his supporters, many of whom are already leery of Washington, to back him for a second term in office. Trump wasted no time trying to get the political edge on Thursday. Hours before Mueller's report was released he posted on Twitter: "The Greatest Political Hoax of all time! Crimes were committed by Crooked, Dirty Cops and DNC/The Democrats." Democratic presidential candidates have said little about the Mueller investigation, which has deeply divided an already polarized America. The question now is whether the release of the report will tempt them to comment, although that risks a bruising, and possibly losing, Twitter battle with Trump.  Polls show that voters are much more concerned about bread and butter issues surrounding the economy than the investigation. As a result, there may be little upside to Democratic candidates, especially in battleground districts dominated by moderate voters, seeking political advantage through the report. SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK Federal prosecutors in the Southern District of New York are examining Trump's business practices and financial dealings, according to testimony delivered to Congress in February by former Trump attorney Michael Cohen, who faces a three-year prison term for crimes related to payments arranged to women who claimed to have had affairs with Trump. The prosecutors have wider latitude to investigate than Mueller and they will be operating independent of him. New indictments by federal prosecutors in New York could overshadow the Mueller report.  IMPEACHMENT? The chances of Democrats in the House of Representatives moving to impeach Trump diminished last month when Barr announced Mueller had found no evidence of collusion with Russia. But the details of Mueller's findings might add new fuel for launching impeachment proceedings that have been conducted only three times in U.S. history.  An impeachment effort would focus on whether Trump may have committed "high crimes and misdemeanours." That is a broad definition that gives Congress greater latitude than Mueller's stricter investigative mandate. Nevertheless, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, the top U.S. Democrat, said weeks before the report's release that she opposes impeachment, saying it would be too divisive to the nation. Given that no Republicans have shown interest in impeachment so far, any such effort likely would fizzle in the Senate where their support would be needed for a conviction - unless the report changes some minds. Nevertheless, some liberal Democrats have continued to press for impeachment. REDACTION BACKLASH Many Democrats demanded a full report with no portions blacked out, or redacted. The House Judiciary Committee could issue subpoenas demanding the full, unredacted report and related documents, as well as testimony gathered by Mueller from some of Trump's former top White House aides. If that action is taken, it is not clear whether the Justice Department would comply with the subpoenas. If not, this struggle could end up being arbitrated by the U.S. Supreme Court. BARR/MUELLER TESTIMONY Attorney General William Barr, the nation's top law enforcement officer, is scheduled to testify before the House Judiciary Committee on May 2. Democrats will try to dig deeper into Mueller's findings, while Republicans likely will defend Trump and argue that Mueller's findings vindicate him. Mueller is expected to testify in an open House Judiciary Committee hearing, but not until after Barr's appearance. TRUMP'S TAX FORMS Besides reviewing Mueller's findings, Democrats are pursuing other avenues for congressional probes into Trump's dealings as a businessman before he became president and since he moved into the White House in 2017. For example, the House Ways and Means Committee set an April 23 deadline for the Treasury Department's Internal Revenue Service to provide six years of Trump's individual and business tax filings. Democrats think the forms could give clues to Trump's possible business dealings with Russia. Failure to meet that deadline could prompt the House to hold administration officials in contempt of Congress, triggering legal manoeuvres to get the agency to comply. OTHER CONGRESSIONAL INVESTIGATIONS The Republican-led Senate Intelligence Committee has yet to release findings of its own in-depth investigation of Russia's role in the 2016 elections. That could come later this year. Meanwhile, the House Intelligence Committee is ramping up its probe now that Democrats are in control. House Intelligence, Foreign Affairs and Oversight committees have been seeking documents relating to Trump's conversations with Russian President Vladimir Putin. The Oversight panel also has been looking into security clearance issues involving Trump's son-in-law Jared Kushner and others.  (Reporting by Richard Cowan; editing by Jonathan Oatis)Supported by By Emily Cochrane WASHINGTON — Representative Adam B. Schiff, the chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, said on Sunday that House Democrats were prepared to go to court to force the release of the final report from the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, and subpoena Mr. Mueller to testify if it was not made public. Mr. Mueller, who has spent nearly two years investigating ties between the Trump campaign and Russia and whether President Trump tried to obstruct justice, is expected to submit his report to the Justice Department in the coming weeks, but the department is not required to release it. “We will take it to court if necessary,” Mr. Schiff, Democrat of California, said on ABC’s “This Week.” “And in the end, I think the department understands they’re going to have to make this public.” Justice Department regulations dictate that Mr. Mueller must submit a confidential report outlining his investigation and decisions to the attorney general, William P. Barr, who will then submit a summary to Congress. While he is required to explain the conclusion of the investigation, Mr. Barr has discretion about what additional details he provides. Mr. Barr, in his confirmation hearings, promised to be as transparent as possible under the special counsel regulations, which allow for discretion after criticism that the independent counsel Ken Starr’s lengthy report to Congress about President Bill Clinton’s sexual relationship with a White House intern was salacious. But Mr. Barr’s expansive views of executive power, coupled with a memo he wrote arguing that Mr. Trump did not obstruct justice by firing James B. Comey as F.B.I. director, have raised concerns among Democrats about his impartiality and his willingness to provide information that could be unflattering to the president. Mr. Schiff’s suggestion that Mr. Mueller and his report could be subpoenaed is among several possibilities Democrats are considering as part of an effort to make the report public. But it is unclear how successful efforts to subpoena Mr. Mueller would be. “I don’t know that you can,” Senator Roy Blunt, a Missouri Republican on the Senate Intelligence Committee, said when asked about the possibility of subpoenaing the report on CBS’s “Face the Nation.” He declined to say whether his committee would also ask Mr. Mueller to testify, saying only that “I think we’ll have to wait and see what’s in the report.” But Neal K. Katyal, who wrote the special counsel regulations in 1999, said Mr. Mueller’s testimony was “certainly possible” — and Mr. Barr is obligated to submit the report to Congress if the special counsel has found any indication of “potential wrongdoing” by the president. “The overall intent of the regulations, it’s said time and time again, is public confidence in the administration of justice,” Mr. Katyal, who was also acting solicitor general in the Obama administration, said on NBC’s “Meet the Press.” “And any sort of suppressed report about presidential wrongdoing will flunk that test.”

Supported by By Emily Cochrane WASHINGTON — Representative Adam B. Schiff, the chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, said on Sunday that House Democrats were prepared to go to court to force the release of the final report from the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, and subpoena Mr. Mueller to testify if it was not made public. Mr. Mueller, who has spent nearly two years investigating ties between the Trump campaign and Russia and whether President Trump tried to obstruct justice, is expected to submit his report to the Justice Department in the coming weeks, but the department is not required to release it. “We will take it to court if necessary,” Mr. Schiff, Democrat of California, said on ABC’s “This Week.” “And in the end, I think the department understands they’re going to have to make this public.” Justice Department regulations dictate that Mr. Mueller must submit a confidential report outlining his investigation and decisions to the attorney general, William P. Barr, who will then submit a summary to Congress. While he is required to explain the conclusion of the investigation, Mr. Barr has discretion about what additional details he provides. Mr. Barr, in his confirmation hearings, promised to be as transparent as possible under the special counsel regulations, which allow for discretion after criticism that the independent counsel Ken Starr’s lengthy report to Congress about President Bill Clinton’s sexual relationship with a White House intern was salacious. But Mr. Barr’s expansive views of executive power, coupled with a memo he wrote arguing that Mr. Trump did not obstruct justice by firing James B. Comey as F.B.I. director, have raised concerns among Democrats about his impartiality and his willingness to provide information that could be unflattering to the president. Mr. Schiff’s suggestion that Mr. Mueller and his report could be subpoenaed is among several possibilities Democrats are considering as part of an effort to make the report public. But it is unclear how successful efforts to subpoena Mr. Mueller would be. “I don’t know that you can,” Senator Roy Blunt, a Missouri Republican on the Senate Intelligence Committee, said when asked about the possibility of subpoenaing the report on CBS’s “Face the Nation.” He declined to say whether his committee would also ask Mr. Mueller to testify, saying only that “I think we’ll have to wait and see what’s in the report.” But Neal K. Katyal, who wrote the special counsel regulations in 1999, said Mr. Mueller’s testimony was “certainly possible” — and Mr. Barr is obligated to submit the report to Congress if the special counsel has found any indication of “potential wrongdoing” by the president. “The overall intent of the regulations, it’s said time and time again, is public confidence in the administration of justice,” Mr. Katyal, who was also acting solicitor general in the Obama administration, said on NBC’s “Meet the Press.” “And any sort of suppressed report about presidential wrongdoing will flunk that test.”Supported by By The Associated Press NEW YORK — Days after the FBI raided Michael Cohen's home and office last year, President Donald Trump called his longtime fixer and urged him to "stay strong" and "hang in there" in the face of the intensifying investigation. That call was among several assurances Cohen says he received that the White House would have his back so long as he "stayed on message," special counsel Robert Mueller said in his long-awaited report on his Trump investigation. The redacted 448-page document was made public Thursday. Mueller's team said it found evidence to suggest that the president intended to discourage Cohen from cooperating with federal authorities, noting among other things that after Cohen flipped on his boss, Trump branded him a "rat" and publicly suggested Cohen's family members had committed crimes. Ultimately, however, the special counsel reached no conclusion on whether Trump obstructed justice. And last month, upon receiving Mueller's report, Attorney General William Barr decided Trump shouldn't be prosecuted. Cohen, 52, is set to report to prison next month to begin serving a three-year sentence after pleading guilty to crimes that included lying to Congress about a Trump Tower project in Moscow and arranging the payment of hush money to a porn star and a Playboy centerfold who claimed to have had affairs with Trump. The Mueller report, though blacked out in places, offers a window into the quiet support Cohen received from Trump before he turned on his longtime boss and began cooperating with federal prosecutors. In the months after the April 2018 raid against Cohen by the FBI, Trump associates sought to assure him that the president intended to take care of him. Someone associated with the Trump Organization — whose name is blacked out of the report — told Cohen that "everyone knows the boss has your back." Another time, a friend of the president's reached out to tell Cohen that he was with "the Boss" at Mar-a-Lago and that Trump said "he loves you" and not to worry, according to the report. Cohen "believed he needed the power of the President to take care of him," he told Mueller's team, noting his legal fees were still being paid at the time by the Trump Organization. But Cohen grew increasingly worried and asked one Trump attorney "what was in it for him," the report says. Cohen "discussed pardons with the President's personal counsel and believed that if he stayed on message he would be taken care of." By June 2018, however, he had broken with the president, saying in an interview that he needed to put family and country ahead of his loyalty to Trump. Trump reacted by lashing out at him and later, in what Cohen regarded as a threat, accused Cohen family members of illegal acts. "The evidence concerning this sequence of events," the Mueller report says, "could support an inference that the President used inducements in the form of positive messages in an effort to get Cohen not to cooperate, and then turned to attacks and intimidation to deter the provision of information or undermine Cohen's credibility once Cohen began cooperating." Some of Cohen's statements to Mueller's team were blacked out of the report. But Cohen attorney and spokesman Lanny Davis tweeted Thursday that Cohen has "7 days, 70 hours, + 100 pages of what #TeamMueller knows and can fill in the bulk of the redactions." Cohen himself tweeted: "Soon I will be ready to address the American people again ... tell it all ... and tell it myself!" It wasn't clear how or when he would do that.

Supported by By The Associated Press NEW YORK — Days after the FBI raided Michael Cohen's home and office last year, President Donald Trump called his longtime fixer and urged him to "stay strong" and "hang in there" in the face of the intensifying investigation. That call was among several assurances Cohen says he received that the White House would have his back so long as he "stayed on message," special counsel Robert Mueller said in his long-awaited report on his Trump investigation. The redacted 448-page document was made public Thursday. Mueller's team said it found evidence to suggest that the president intended to discourage Cohen from cooperating with federal authorities, noting among other things that after Cohen flipped on his boss, Trump branded him a "rat" and publicly suggested Cohen's family members had committed crimes. Ultimately, however, the special counsel reached no conclusion on whether Trump obstructed justice. And last month, upon receiving Mueller's report, Attorney General William Barr decided Trump shouldn't be prosecuted. Cohen, 52, is set to report to prison next month to begin serving a three-year sentence after pleading guilty to crimes that included lying to Congress about a Trump Tower project in Moscow and arranging the payment of hush money to a porn star and a Playboy centerfold who claimed to have had affairs with Trump. The Mueller report, though blacked out in places, offers a window into the quiet support Cohen received from Trump before he turned on his longtime boss and began cooperating with federal prosecutors. In the months after the April 2018 raid against Cohen by the FBI, Trump associates sought to assure him that the president intended to take care of him. Someone associated with the Trump Organization — whose name is blacked out of the report — told Cohen that "everyone knows the boss has your back." Another time, a friend of the president's reached out to tell Cohen that he was with "the Boss" at Mar-a-Lago and that Trump said "he loves you" and not to worry, according to the report. Cohen "believed he needed the power of the President to take care of him," he told Mueller's team, noting his legal fees were still being paid at the time by the Trump Organization. But Cohen grew increasingly worried and asked one Trump attorney "what was in it for him," the report says. Cohen "discussed pardons with the President's personal counsel and believed that if he stayed on message he would be taken care of." By June 2018, however, he had broken with the president, saying in an interview that he needed to put family and country ahead of his loyalty to Trump. Trump reacted by lashing out at him and later, in what Cohen regarded as a threat, accused Cohen family members of illegal acts. "The evidence concerning this sequence of events," the Mueller report says, "could support an inference that the President used inducements in the form of positive messages in an effort to get Cohen not to cooperate, and then turned to attacks and intimidation to deter the provision of information or undermine Cohen's credibility once Cohen began cooperating." Some of Cohen's statements to Mueller's team were blacked out of the report. But Cohen attorney and spokesman Lanny Davis tweeted Thursday that Cohen has "7 days, 70 hours, + 100 pages of what #TeamMueller knows and can fill in the bulk of the redactions." Cohen himself tweeted: "Soon I will be ready to address the American people again ... tell it all ... and tell it myself!" It wasn't clear how or when he would do that.Supported by By Reuters (Reuters) - Attorney General William Barr has provided only a glimpse of Special Counsel Robert Mueller's report on the inquiry into Russia's role in the 2016 U.S. election, with many details expected to emerge when the document is released on Thursday. Barr on March 24 sent a four-page letter to lawmakers detailing Mueller's "principal conclusions" including that the 22-month probe did not establish that President Donald Trump's 2016 campaign team conspired with Russia. Barr said he found insufficient evidence in Mueller's report to conclude that Trump committed obstruction of justice, though the special counsel did not make a formal finding one way or the other on that. The Justice Department plans to release the nearly 400-page report on Thursday, with portions blacked out to protect certain types of sensitive information. Here are five things to look for when the report is issued. OBSTRUCTION OF JUSTICE: WHY NO EXONERATION? Perhaps the biggest political risk for Trump is the special counsel's supporting evidence behind Mueller's assertion that while the report does not conclude the Republican president committed the crime of obstruction of justice it "also does not exonerate him" on that point. According to Barr's March 24 letter, Mueller has presented evidence on both sides of the question without concluding whether to prosecute. Barr filled that void by asserting there was no prosecutable case. But Barr's statement in the letter that "most" of Trump's actions that had raised questions about obstruction were "the subject of public reporting" suggested that some actions were not publicly known. Democrats in Congress do not believe Barr, a Trump appointee, should have the final say on the matter. While the prospect that the Democratic-led House of Representatives would begin the impeachment process to try to remove Trump from office appears to have receded, the House Judiciary Committee will be looking for any evidence relevant to ongoing probes into obstruction of justice, corruption and abuse of power by the president or others in the administration. Barr's comment that most of what Mueller probed on obstruction has been publicly reported indicates that events like Trump's firing of James Comey as FBI director in May 2017 when the agency was heading the Russia inquiry are likely to be the focus of this section of the report. RUSSIAN 'INFORMATION WARFARE' AND CAMPAIGN CONTACTS The report will detail indictments by Mueller of two Kremlin-backed operations to influence the 2016 election: one against a St. Petersburg-based troll farm called the Internet Research Agency accused of waging "information warfare" over social media; and the other charging Russian intelligence officers with hacking into Democratic Party servers and pilfering emails leaked to hurt Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton. With those two indictments already public and bearing no apparent link to the president, the focus may be on what Mueller concluded, if anything, about other incidents that involved contacts between Russians and people in Trump's orbit. That could include the June 2016 meeting at Trump Tower in New York in which a Russian lawyer promised "dirt" on Clinton to senior campaign officials, as well as a secret January 2017 meeting in the Seychelles investigated as a possible attempt to set up a back channel between the incoming Trump administration and the Kremlin while Democrat Barack Obama was still president. Any analysis of such contacts could shed light on why Mueller, according to Barr's summary, "did not establish that members of the Trump campaign conspired or coordinated with the Russian government in its election interference activities." MANAFORT, UKRAINE POLICY AND POLLING DATA In the weeks before Trump's former campaign chairman Paul Manafort was sentenced in March to 7-1/2 years in prison mostly for financial crimes related to millions of dollars he was paid by pro-Russia Ukrainian politicians, Mueller's team provided hints about what their pursuit of him was really about. Prosecutor Andrew Weissmann told a judge in February that an Aug. 2, 2016 meeting between Manafort and Konstantin Kilimnik, a consultant Mueller has said has ties to Russian intelligence, "went to the heart of" the special counsel's investigation. The meeting included a discussion about a proposal to resolve the conflict in Ukraine in terms favorable to the Kremlin, an issue that has damaged Russia's relations with the West. Prosecutors also said Manafort shared Trump campaign polling data with Kilimnik, although the significance of that act remains unclear.  One focus will be on what Mueller ultimately concluded about Manafort's interactions with Kilimnik and whether a failed attempt to secure cooperation from Manafort, who was found by a judge to have lied to prosecutors in breach of a plea agreement, significantly impeded the special counsel's work. NATIONAL SECURITY CONCERNS While Mueller did not find a criminal conspiracy with Russia, according to Barr, there is a chance the report will detail behavior and financial entanglements that give fodder to critics who have said Trump has shown a pattern of deference to the Kremlin. One example of such an entanglement was the proposal to build a Trump tower in Moscow, a deal potentially worth hundreds of millions of dollars that never materialized. Michael Cohen, Trump's former personal lawyer, admitted to lying to Congress about the project to provide cover because Trump on the campaign trail had denied any dealings with Russia. In the absence of criminal charges arising from Mueller's inquiry, House Intelligence Committee Chairman Adam Schiff has shifted his focus to whether Trump is "compromised" by such entanglements, influencing his policy decisions and posing a risk to national security. Some legal experts have said the counterintelligence probe Mueller inherited from Comey may prove more significant than his criminal inquiry, though it is not clear to what degree counterintelligence findings will be included in the report. Barr also has said he planned to redact material related to intelligence-gathering sources and methods. MIDDLE EAST INFLUENCE AND OTHER PROBES Another focus is whether Mueller will disclose anything from his inquiries into Middle Eastern efforts to influence Trump. One mystery is what, if anything, came of the special counsel's questioning of George Nader, a Lebanese-American businessman and consultant to the crown princes of the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia who started cooperating with Mueller last year. Nader attended the Seychelles meeting. He also was present at a Trump Tower meeting in August 2016, three months before the election, at which an Israeli social media specialist spoke with the president's son, Donald Trump Jr., about how his firm Psy-Group, which employed several former Israeli intelligence officers, could help the Trump campaign, according to the New York Times. Mueller's interest in Nader suggested the special counsel looked into whether additional countries sought to influence the election and whether they did so in concert with Russia. A lawyer for Nader did not respond to a request for comment. Barr has said he will redact from the Mueller report information on "other ongoing matters," including inquiries referred to other offices in the Justice Department. That makes it unclear if any findings related to the Middle East will appear in the report.  (Compiled by Nathan Layne in New York; Editing by Will Dunham)

Supported by By Reuters (Reuters) - Attorney General William Barr has provided only a glimpse of Special Counsel Robert Mueller's report on the inquiry into Russia's role in the 2016 U.S. election, with many details expected to emerge when the document is released on Thursday. Barr on March 24 sent a four-page letter to lawmakers detailing Mueller's "principal conclusions" including that the 22-month probe did not establish that President Donald Trump's 2016 campaign team conspired with Russia. Barr said he found insufficient evidence in Mueller's report to conclude that Trump committed obstruction of justice, though the special counsel did not make a formal finding one way or the other on that. The Justice Department plans to release the nearly 400-page report on Thursday, with portions blacked out to protect certain types of sensitive information. Here are five things to look for when the report is issued. OBSTRUCTION OF JUSTICE: WHY NO EXONERATION? Perhaps the biggest political risk for Trump is the special counsel's supporting evidence behind Mueller's assertion that while the report does not conclude the Republican president committed the crime of obstruction of justice it "also does not exonerate him" on that point. According to Barr's March 24 letter, Mueller has presented evidence on both sides of the question without concluding whether to prosecute. Barr filled that void by asserting there was no prosecutable case. But Barr's statement in the letter that "most" of Trump's actions that had raised questions about obstruction were "the subject of public reporting" suggested that some actions were not publicly known. Democrats in Congress do not believe Barr, a Trump appointee, should have the final say on the matter. While the prospect that the Democratic-led House of Representatives would begin the impeachment process to try to remove Trump from office appears to have receded, the House Judiciary Committee will be looking for any evidence relevant to ongoing probes into obstruction of justice, corruption and abuse of power by the president or others in the administration. Barr's comment that most of what Mueller probed on obstruction has been publicly reported indicates that events like Trump's firing of James Comey as FBI director in May 2017 when the agency was heading the Russia inquiry are likely to be the focus of this section of the report. RUSSIAN 'INFORMATION WARFARE' AND CAMPAIGN CONTACTS The report will detail indictments by Mueller of two Kremlin-backed operations to influence the 2016 election: one against a St. Petersburg-based troll farm called the Internet Research Agency accused of waging "information warfare" over social media; and the other charging Russian intelligence officers with hacking into Democratic Party servers and pilfering emails leaked to hurt Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton. With those two indictments already public and bearing no apparent link to the president, the focus may be on what Mueller concluded, if anything, about other incidents that involved contacts between Russians and people in Trump's orbit. That could include the June 2016 meeting at Trump Tower in New York in which a Russian lawyer promised "dirt" on Clinton to senior campaign officials, as well as a secret January 2017 meeting in the Seychelles investigated as a possible attempt to set up a back channel between the incoming Trump administration and the Kremlin while Democrat Barack Obama was still president. Any analysis of such contacts could shed light on why Mueller, according to Barr's summary, "did not establish that members of the Trump campaign conspired or coordinated with the Russian government in its election interference activities." MANAFORT, UKRAINE POLICY AND POLLING DATA In the weeks before Trump's former campaign chairman Paul Manafort was sentenced in March to 7-1/2 years in prison mostly for financial crimes related to millions of dollars he was paid by pro-Russia Ukrainian politicians, Mueller's team provided hints about what their pursuit of him was really about. Prosecutor Andrew Weissmann told a judge in February that an Aug. 2, 2016 meeting between Manafort and Konstantin Kilimnik, a consultant Mueller has said has ties to Russian intelligence, "went to the heart of" the special counsel's investigation. The meeting included a discussion about a proposal to resolve the conflict in Ukraine in terms favorable to the Kremlin, an issue that has damaged Russia's relations with the West. Prosecutors also said Manafort shared Trump campaign polling data with Kilimnik, although the significance of that act remains unclear.  One focus will be on what Mueller ultimately concluded about Manafort's interactions with Kilimnik and whether a failed attempt to secure cooperation from Manafort, who was found by a judge to have lied to prosecutors in breach of a plea agreement, significantly impeded the special counsel's work. NATIONAL SECURITY CONCERNS While Mueller did not find a criminal conspiracy with Russia, according to Barr, there is a chance the report will detail behavior and financial entanglements that give fodder to critics who have said Trump has shown a pattern of deference to the Kremlin. One example of such an entanglement was the proposal to build a Trump tower in Moscow, a deal potentially worth hundreds of millions of dollars that never materialized. Michael Cohen, Trump's former personal lawyer, admitted to lying to Congress about the project to provide cover because Trump on the campaign trail had denied any dealings with Russia. In the absence of criminal charges arising from Mueller's inquiry, House Intelligence Committee Chairman Adam Schiff has shifted his focus to whether Trump is "compromised" by such entanglements, influencing his policy decisions and posing a risk to national security. Some legal experts have said the counterintelligence probe Mueller inherited from Comey may prove more significant than his criminal inquiry, though it is not clear to what degree counterintelligence findings will be included in the report. Barr also has said he planned to redact material related to intelligence-gathering sources and methods. MIDDLE EAST INFLUENCE AND OTHER PROBES Another focus is whether Mueller will disclose anything from his inquiries into Middle Eastern efforts to influence Trump. One mystery is what, if anything, came of the special counsel's questioning of George Nader, a Lebanese-American businessman and consultant to the crown princes of the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia who started cooperating with Mueller last year. Nader attended the Seychelles meeting. He also was present at a Trump Tower meeting in August 2016, three months before the election, at which an Israeli social media specialist spoke with the president's son, Donald Trump Jr., about how his firm Psy-Group, which employed several former Israeli intelligence officers, could help the Trump campaign, according to the New York Times. Mueller's interest in Nader suggested the special counsel looked into whether additional countries sought to influence the election and whether they did so in concert with Russia. A lawyer for Nader did not respond to a request for comment. Barr has said he will redact from the Mueller report information on "other ongoing matters," including inquiries referred to other offices in the Justice Department. That makes it unclear if any findings related to the Middle East will appear in the report.  (Compiled by Nathan Layne in New York; Editing by Will Dunham)Supported by By Nicholas Fandos, Michael S. Schmidt and Mark Mazzetti WASHINGTON — Some of Robert S. Mueller III’s investigators have told associates that Attorney General William P. Barr failed to adequately portray the findings of their inquiry and that they were more troubling for President Trump than Mr. Barr indicated, according to government officials and others familiar with their simmering frustrations. At stake in the dispute — the first evidence of tension between Mr. Barr and the special counsel’s office — is who shapes the public’s initial understanding of one of the most consequential government investigations in American history. Some members of Mr. Mueller’s team are concerned that, because Mr. Barr created the first narrative of the special counsel’s findings, Americans’ views will have hardened before the investigation’s conclusions become public. Mr. Barr has said he will move quickly to release the nearly 400-page report but needs time to scrub out confidential information. The special counsel’s investigators had already written multiple summaries of the report, and some team members believe that Mr. Barr should have included more of their material in the four-page letter he wrote on March 24 laying out their main conclusions, according to government officials familiar with the investigation. Mr. Barr only briefly cited the special counsel’s work in his letter. transcript Hosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Theo Balcomb, Lisa Tobin and Paige Cowett, and edited by Larissa Anderson The attorney general turned a report of nearly 400 pages into a four-page summary. Members of the special counsel’s team say something was lost. michael barbaro From The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today: The Mueller team sent its report to the attorney general, William Barr. The attorney general sent a summary of that report to Congress. Now, new reporting shows members of Mueller’s team feel that Barr’s summary did not reflect the report they wrote. It’s Thursday, April 4. So take us back to the beginning of last week. What do we know at that point? nicholas fandos So we knew that Bill Barr, taking Bob Mueller’s 300- to 400-page report, had gone through it extensively and boiled down what he called the “principal conclusions” to just four pages. michael barbaro Nick Fandos covers Congress. Mike Schmidt covers national security. michael schmidt We were in this unusual situation where the special counsel, Robert Mueller, had sent his report to the attorney general, said, I found no evidence that the campaign conspired with Russia to impact the election. But he declined to make a decision on obstruction. nicholas fandos And what he said was Mueller didn’t reach what Barr called a “traditional prosecutorial decision.” In other words, Mueller presented evidence for the fact that the president may have obstructed justice but didn’t go as far as to conclude that he had. He essentially punted to the attorney general’s office. michael schmidt And in this case, by Mueller not reaching a determination, he leaves the door open for Barr to come in to say, O.K., Mueller didn’t make a determination on this issue of obstruction. He did on collusion. I’m going to look at all the facts. And he makes his determination — no case to be made here on both of these issues. The problem, though, is that the perception is that Mueller, the independent investigator who’s there to do an inquiry free of politics, has not made a call on this central question. But Barr, the president’s appointee, who’s been there just for a few months, is making the decision. So the question is, is the fix in? Why is it, if Mueller didn’t come to an answer, the attorney general did? michael barbaro So at the beginning of last week, we know that Mueller made the unusual decision not to make a call. And Barr made the unusual decision to make a call. And the question is, why? michael schmidt It’s not unusual that Barr made a call. The Justice Department is there to decide whether people broke the law or not. And he was doing that. What’s different and unusual here is that Barr and Mueller don’t look like they’re on the same page. [music]  michael schmidt Mueller said, I can’t make a determination on this issue. And Barr did. So why is it that they looked at it differently? Why was it that Mueller, the prosecutor here, didn’t do the one thing that prosecutors at the Justice Department do, which is make a call? nicholas fandos And that was the question that we’ve spent the last week trying to figure out. What is the difference here? What is the evidence that they’re looking at? And why did Mueller and Barr make the decisions that they made around this question of obstruction of justice? michael barbaro And what have we now learned? nicholas fandos What we’ve now learned is that nobody’s happy. The team that was working — or at least some of the team that was working with Bob Mueller feels that Barr stepped in and filled the vacuum in a way that didn’t properly capture what their 22-month investigation found. And Barr’s team feels that Bob Mueller fell short of doing his job. michael barbaro So let’s start with the Barr side. Explain more about why the attorney general and those around him are upset. michael schmidt So in not reaching a decision on obstruction of justice, Barr has to go out on his own and make that determination without the top cover of the independent investigator who went out and was supposed to make a determination on whether the president broke the law. michael barbaro And what do you mean by “top cover“? michael schmidt One of the reasons you have a special counsel is to insulate an investigation from politics and then, when the investigation is concluded, have a way of holding up the product of the inquiry, the fruits of it, to the public and saying, look, this was done free of politics. We assessed this matter based on the facts. And now you have a result that is exposed, at least in part, to the perception that the president’s guy made the decision. michael barbaro The attorney general. michael schmidt Correct. nicholas fandos Undercutting one of the key points of Mueller’s appointment in the first place. michael barbaro And you’re saying that the people in the Justice Department and that Barr himself are upset to be put in that position? michael schmidt Well, the system’s not working the way it’s supposed to. You had Mueller there for one reason — yea or nay on crimes. And on one of these central questions, he couldn’t get there. And by stepping back and saying, I don’t know, it allows at least the Democrats to say, what? How was this decision made? How did they get to this? How is it that the president’s political appointee was the ultimate decider? nicholas fandos And it gives them real credence to go and say, we need to see all the evidence. We need to see the whole file here because the president’s handpicked man made this decision. Maybe we’d reach a different conclusion if we looked at the evidence. Bob Mueller seems to have. michael barbaro So then why did Barr choose to make a call on obstruction of justice if he knew and was upset that this was going to be seen as hyper-political and that it would fan the flames of Democrats in Congress? nicholas fandos The problem for Barr was that when he got the report and looked at the evidence, to him, it was a pretty clear case that you would not press this kind of charge, that the president hadn’t obstructed justice. Now, you’ve got to remember that Barr comes to the job with a pretty expansive view of executive power. As Democrats made famous, he wrote a memo before he was appointed attorney general arguing that certain acts by the president shouldn’t be construed as obstruction of justice. They’re part of his executive powers. And so he looked at this and, I mean, he can’t make the same decision that Mueller did. Somebody has to make a choice about whether or not this is a chargeable offense. And he looked at it and says, well, in our judgment and this team’s judgment, it’s not. michael barbaro So Barr reads the report and thinks, what are you talking about it’s not clear whether or not there was obstruction of justice? There, in his mind, clearly wasn’t. nicholas fandos Barr does acknowledge that there is evidence, basically, of behavior that could be construed as obstructive. He gives credence to what Mueller is presenting but says, when you add it all up, it doesn’t tip into — michael schmidt Criminality. nicholas fandos — criminal obstructive territory. michael barbaro Right. And while it felt political for Barr to reach a conclusion, to make a call that Mueller wouldn’t, I have to think it would have felt even more political in Barr’s mind for Congress to be the one to perform that role. And so he was upset to have to make this call, but, it sounds like, felt that he had to. michael schmidt I don’t know if he’s upset as much as he looks at this situation and says, this is not the way it’s supposed to be working. Someone needs to make a decision on whether the president broke the law. I’ll step in and do that. And I think I can do that based on the facts. nicholas fandos And Congress can still play a role. I’m redacting the report. I’ll give it to you with sensitive information blacked out. And then you can make your own judgment. But the public has an intense interest in this. And I’ve got to say something. And I decide whether acts broke the law or not. And I don’t think this one did. michael barbaro Do we know if Mueller’s team expected Barr to make this call on obstruction of justice after they declined to do so? nicholas fandos We don’t know precisely what the Mueller team expected on this obstruction question. It seems that they were not clear in communicating to the Justice Department what they wanted. It may not have mattered anyway. But what we do know is that after Barr came out with this four-page summary, which essentially exonerated the president on collusion and said he did not break the law on obstruction, some members of Mr. Mueller’s team felt that he had inadequately and only partially represented the work of their 22-month investigation. michael barbaro So this is the other side of your reporting — that not only was the Barr side disappointed with the Mueller side, the Mueller side was disappointed with the Barr side. nicholas fandos What we have learned is that since Barr made his public statement about a week ago, members of the Mueller team have told associates that they feel, essentially, that his work — if it wasn’t misrepresentative of theirs — didn’t give the full picture, which they believe is more damaging to the president than the attorney general’s letter lets on. Now, we are not saying that every member of the Mueller team is frustrated by this. We don’t know what Bob Mueller himself thinks. He remains one of the black boxes at the center of this investigation. But there are members of the team who were involved in the decision-making around these issues that we’ve been talking about who have watched and been disappointed and angry about how it’s being characterized. michael barbaro And what is the focus of their disappointment, to the degree you understand it? nicholas fandos So when they read Bill Barr’s concise four-page letter, they were frustrated that he had not drawn more from their own work. And in fact, what we discovered in reporting this piece out is that they had prepared summaries of their own work that were part of the report that they handed over to the Justice Department a couple of weeks ago and felt that some of that material could have easily been drawn into what Mr. Barr handed over. So not that he shouldn’t have made a decision about whether the president obstructed justice or not in a criminal sense, but that concurrent with that, he should have put out more of their evidence or analysis to fill out the public picture. The Justice Department says those summaries had sensitive information in them, classified information, secretive grand jury information that couldn’t become public, and ultimately didn’t use any of it. michael schmidt So what Mueller’s folks are essentially saying is, hey, we wrote these summaries. If you were going to go out and say something about this investigation, and you were going to do something as extreme or as declarative as clearing the president, why is it that you didn’t include some of the things that we found? michael barbaro And specifically, why didn’t you include some stuff that we found that was pretty damning? You’re making it seem like the president didn’t do anything wrong. michael schmidt Donald Trump has come out in the days after Barr’s declaration and said the Mueller report was beautiful. And it completely exonerates him. If you’re an investigator who spent the last two years looking at Donald Trump, and you think there’s a lot of questionable behavior there, that is something that is going to irritate you mightily. michael barbaro I mean, do either of you think that the Mueller people have a legitimate point here? Or is this a classic case of pride of authorship? They wanted to see their work in the public summary. nicholas fandos I don’t think that we fully know. What seems clear in our reporting is that there was no specific communication or agreement by the Mueller team to the Barr team — you should use these things, or we want these things to be out. They seem to have had an intention. And they certainly now have a regret about it. But we don’t know what interaction there was in the actual decision-making process that happened that weekend two weeks ago. michael barbaro Well, so why do we think that Barr chose not to include more of what was in these summaries, especially the negative material, in his four-page summary? michael schmidt I think there’s one big, broad reason and another contemporary reason, the broad reason being that Barr and many Justice Department officials and, for many years, prosecutors believe that if they decide not to charge someone, the fruits of the investigation should not be just thrown out there for the public or for the enemies of the person who were investigated. michael barbaro Dirty laundry should not be aired if the subject of those dirty laundry are not charged with a crime. michael schmidt If you cannot meet this incredibly high bar of bringing a federal prosecution, that doesn’t mean you then get to just take the trash and just throw it out in the street and let the public rummage through it. michael barbaro And Mike, by the contemporary example you referred to, I’m assuming you’re talking about James Comey. michael schmidt I’m talking about the July 2016 press conference that James Comey held. It’s right in the heat of the presidential election. He stands up and says, we, the F.B.I., have done this investigation into Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email account. We don’t think there is a case to be made here. But we found some very questionable behavior in how she handled sensitive national security secrets. The press conference was seen as very damaging to Clinton even though a case was never made. michael barbaro And so you’re saying that Barr’s view would be, I’m not going to be the one to replicate that by drawing from these Mueller team summaries and putting those out into the public sphere. michael schmidt Correct. We don’t use criminal investigations to go out and find damaging things that may not be crimes that we then simply release to the public to be used against someone. nicholas fandos The problem is, this was never a normal or average criminal investigation. It has broad national security implications. And it has implications for almost every decision that’s made at the highest levels of the government. michael schmidt This is more about a pathway of how you deal with the president’s conduct. And what it appears from the Mueller side is that they’re saying, look, this is the president of the United States. There’s some conduct here that we think the public and Congress should see. And O.K., Justice Department, it may not be criminal. But this is the president. And this needs to be examined more thoroughly by the political process and by Congress. It’s about a pathway of dealing with the president. nicholas fandos And Bill Barr doesn’t seem to disagree with that, fundamentally. He said throughout that he wants to make as much of this report public as possible. But he doesn’t think that that absolves him of the Justice Department’s role of saying whether or not the president or his campaign broke the law. And so he’s grappling with the Justice Department’s aversion to talk about individuals that it’s not saying broke the law. But yet he knows that the public and the Congress want and probably are owed more information about what did happen. And so he’s kind of operating somewhere in the middle of those two things. michael schmidt The difference here is that if I was under investigation, and the Justice Department determined that I didn’t break the law, then there’s no other process that really needs to be dealt with me. Maybe my company needs to decide whether I get fired or not for that conduct. In this instance, there’s another issue with the president. O.K., the president didn’t break the law. But maybe the president did things with his power that the public should know about, Congress should know about, and need to be more closely examined. Because maybe it’s not just about breaking the law. It’s about how he conducted himself as president. And does Congress need to deal with that? And what we are starting to see from Mueller’s side is this frustration that, hey, we think there’s some bad stuff that happened here. But by Barr coming out and not disclosing that but saying the president didn’t break the law, he is casting the die on how the public will later look at the president’s conduct. It will say that for several weeks after we finished our report, the only thing that was out there was Bill Barr saying the president didn’t break the law, and the president turning around and saying, I was fully exonerated. And they’re saying, hey, America, we think more of this process needs to play out. michael barbaro Right. michael schmidt So this all comes down to the vexing question of, how do we investigate a sitting president? And how is that done in a way that the public has the utmost confidence in that? And in that is this tension between how much independence the investigator should have. In Nixon, that pendulum swung too far in the president’s direction. In the Starr investigation of Clinton, it went the other way. The investigator had too much power. And here, between Mueller and Barr’s teams, they are fighting that same fight and have different understandings of how this should all be dealt with. And it’s the same issue that we’ve been looking at for 50 years, just the latest episode of it. michael barbaro So inside of one presidential investigation, these two teams are embodying all the tensions that have basically been present since Watergate. nicholas fandos Correct. michael schmidt It’s how much you can tell the public, and how is apparent misconduct by the president dealt with? And there’s no clear pathway on that. So whatever Barr does will be viewed by one side as political and laying on the brakes for the president. Whatever Mueller does will be viewed by the president’s enemies as trying to get him. And the confidence in that process then erodes. And it’s messy. And it’s hard to figure out. What are the real facts here? What really happened? michael barbaro But at this point, we’re just talking about the summary that Bill Barr sent to Congress. We’re still waiting on the full report. So won’t this tension that you’re describing eventually be more or less resolved when we learn how much information we’ll ultimately have access to? nicholas fandos It may be. And we may see a very different set of facts at the end of the day. But I think the question here is about who sets the narrative for the intervening period of time. It may end up being a month before we see a fuller version of the Mueller report. And for that time, Bill Barr’s conclusion that the president didn’t break the law is going to be the dominant narrative. And I think that what we’re hearing from members of the Mueller team is a concern that by the time their fuller work does come out, the narrative is baked — so much so that even if it shows, for instance, that the president didn’t break the law but abused his office or conducted acts that Congress will deem inappropriate for his office, that there’s not room to have a full debate around that, that the conclusions about the work that they did for 22 months will have been prejudged at that point, and that it won’t quite matter what the report says for the president’s political fate. michael barbaro Nick, Mike, thank you very much. nicholas fandos Thank you guys. michael schmidt Thanks for having us. archived recording (jerry nadler) The committee has a job to do. The Constitution charges Congress with holding the president accountable for alleged official misconduct. michael barbaro On Wednesday, the House Judiciary Committee voted to authorize the use of subpoenas to obtain a full copy of the Mueller report. archived recording (jerry nadler) That job requires us to evaluate the evidence for ourselves — not the attorney general’s summary, not a substantially redacted synopsis, but the full report and the underlying evidence. michael barbaro The committee’s chairman, Democratic representative Jerry Nadler of New York, said he would not immediately issue a subpoena. But his power to do so will intensify pressure on the attorney general, William Barr, to quickly release an unredacted copy of the report. archived recording (jerry nadler) I will give him time to change his mind. But if we cannot reach an accommodation, then we will have no choice but to issue subpoenas for these materials. michael barbaro We’ll be right back. [music]  michael barbaro Here’s what else you need to know today. A Times analysis of deadly terror attacks involving white extremists has found that at least a third of them were inspired by fellow white men who carried out similar attacks and had either professed admiration for them or interest in their tactics. In one case, a school shooter in New Mexico corresponded with a gunman who attacked a mall in Munich. All together, the two men killed 11 people. The connections between the killers crossed continents and highlight how the internet and social media have spread white extremism. And — archived recording (joe biden) I’ve always tried to be — in my career, I’ve always tried to make a human connection. That’s my responsibility, I think. I shake hands. I hug people. I grab men and women by the shoulders and say, you can do this. michael barbaro On Wednesday, former vice president Joe Biden responded to a series of complaints from women that his close physical contact had made them uncomfortable. archived recording (joe biden) Our social norms have begun to change. They’ve shifted. And the boundaries of protecting personal space have been reset. And I get it. I get it. I hear what they’re saying. I understand it. michael barbaro In a video message sent as Biden prepares for a possible presidential run, he defended his behavior but said he is able to change. archived recording (joe biden) But I’ll always believe governing, quite frankly — life, for that matter — is about connecting. michael barbaro That’s it for “The Daily.” I’m Michael Barbaro. See you tomorrow. However, the special counsel’s office never asked Mr. Barr to release the summaries soon after he received the report, a person familiar with the investigation said. And the Justice Department quickly determined that the summaries contain sensitive information, like classified material, secret grand-jury testimony and information related to current federal investigations that must remain confidential, according to two government officials. Federal prosecutors are pursuing a number of criminal inquiries that grew out of the investigation led by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III. Mr. Barr was also wary of departing from Justice Department practice not to disclose derogatory details in closing an investigation, according to two government officials familiar with Mr. Barr’s thinking. They pointed to the decision by James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director, to harshly criticize Hillary Clinton in 2016 while announcing that he was recommending no charges in the inquiry into her email practices. The officials and others interviewed declined to flesh out why some of the special counsel’s investigators viewed their findings as potentially more damaging for the president than Mr. Barr explained, although the report is believed to examine Mr. Trump’s efforts to thwart the investigation. It was unclear how much discussion Mr. Mueller and his investigators had with senior Justice Department officials about how their findings would be made public. It was also unclear how widespread the vexation is among the special counsel team, which included 19 lawyers, about 40 F.B.I. agents and other personnel. At the same time, Mr. Barr and his advisers have expressed their own frustrations about Mr. Mueller and his team. Mr. Barr and other Justice Department officials believe the special counsel’s investigators fell short of their task by declining to decide whether Mr. Trump illegally obstructed the inquiry, according to the two government officials. After Mr. Mueller made no judgment on the obstruction matter, Mr. Barr stepped in to declare that he himself had cleared Mr. Trump of wrongdoing. Representatives for the Justice Department and the special counsel declined to comment on Wednesday on views inside both Mr. Mueller’s office and the Justice Department. They pointed to departmental regulations requiring Mr. Mueller to file a confidential report to the attorney general detailing prosecution decisions and to Mr. Barr’s separate vow to send a redacted version of that report to Congress. Under the regulations, Mr. Barr can publicly release as much of the document as he deems appropriate. The letter, by Attorney General William P. Barr, details the main findings of the special counsel’s two-year investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election. A debate over how the special counsel’s conclusions are represented has played out in public as well as in recent weeks, with Democrats in Congress accusing Mr. Barr of intervening to color the outcome of the investigation in the president’s favor. In his letter to Congress outlining the report’s chief conclusions, Mr. Barr said that Mr. Mueller found no conspiracy between Mr. Trump’s campaign and Russia’s 2016 election interference. While Mr. Mueller made no decision on his other main question, whether the president illegally obstructed the inquiry, he explicitly stopped short of exonerating Mr. Trump. Mr. Mueller’s decision to skip a prosecutorial judgment “leaves it to the attorney general to determine whether the conduct described in the report constitutes a crime,” Mr. Barr wrote. He and his deputy, Rod J. Rosenstein, decided that the evidence was insufficient to conclude that Mr. Trump had committed an obstruction offense. Mr. Barr has come under criticism for sharing so little. But according to officials familiar with the attorney general’s thinking, he and his aides limited the details they revealed because they were worried about wading into political territory. Mr. Barr and his advisers expressed concern that if they included derogatory information about Mr. Trump while clearing him, they would face a storm of criticism like what Mr. Comey endured in the Clinton investigation. Legal experts attacked Mr. Comey at the time for violating Justice Department practice to keep confidential any negative information about anyone uncovered during investigations. The practice exists to keep from unfairly sullying people’s reputations without giving them a chance to respond in court. Mr. Rosenstein cited the handling of the Clinton case in a memo the White House used to rationalize Mr. Trump’s firing of Mr. Comey. Though it was not clear what findings the special counsel’s investigators viewed as troubling for the president, Mr. Barr has suggested that Mr. Mueller may have found evidence of malfeasance in investigating possible obstruction of justice. “The report sets out evidence on both sides of the question,” Mr. Barr wrote in his March 24 letter. Mr. Mueller examined Mr. Trump’s attempts to maintain control over the investigation, including his firing of Mr. Comey and his attempt to oust Mr. Mueller and Attorney General Jeff Sessions to install a loyalist to oversee the inquiry. More than two years of criminal indictments and steady revelations about Trump campaign contacts with Russians reveal the scope of the special counsel investigation. The fallout from Mr. Barr’s letter outlining the Russia investigation’s main findings overshadowed his intent to make public as much of the entire report as possible, a goal he has stressed since his confirmation hearing in January. He reiterated to lawmakers on Friday that he wanted both Congress and the public to read the report and said that the department would by mid-April furnish a version with sensitive material blacked out. He offered to testify on Capitol Hill soon after turning over the report. Mr. Barr, who took office in February, has shown flashes of frustration over how the unveiling of the investigation’s findings has unfolded. In his follow-up letter to lawmakers on Friday, he chafed at how the news media and some lawmakers had characterized his March 24 letter. Mr. Barr and Mr. Mueller have been friends for 30 years, and Mr. Barr said during his confirmation hearing in January that he trusted Mr. Mueller to conduct an impartial investigation. He said he told Mr. Trump that Mr. Mueller was a “straight shooter who should be dealt with as such.” Mr. Mueller served as the head of the Justice Department’s criminal division when Mr. Barr was attorney general under George Bush, and their families are friends. Mr. Barr’s promises of transparency have done little to appease Democrats who control the House. The House Judiciary Committee voted on Wednesday to let its chairman use a subpoena to try to compel Mr. Barr to hand over a full copy of the Mueller report and its underlying evidence to Congress. The chairman, Representative Jerrold Nadler, Democrat of New York, has not said when he will use the subpoena, but made clear on Wednesday that he did not trust Mr. Barr’s characterization of what Mr. Mueller’s team found. “The Constitution charges Congress with holding the president accountable for alleged official misconduct,” Mr. Nadler said. “That job requires us to evaluate the evidence for ourselves — not the attorney general’s summary, not a substantially redacted synopsis, but the full report and the underlying evidence.” Republicans, who have embraced Mr. Barr’s letter clearing Mr. Trump, have accused the Democrats of trying to prolong the cloud over his presidency and urged them to move on. Mr. Trump has fully embraced Mr. Barr’s version of events. For days, he has pronounced the outcome of the investigation a “complete and total exoneration” and called for the Justice Department and his allies on Capitol Hill to investigate and hold accountable those responsible for opening the inquiry. Katie Benner and Adam Goldman contributed reporting. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter. OpinionNeal K. Katyal   

Supported by By Nicholas Fandos, Michael S. Schmidt and Mark Mazzetti WASHINGTON — Some of Robert S. Mueller III’s investigators have told associates that Attorney General William P. Barr failed to adequately portray the findings of their inquiry and that they were more troubling for President Trump than Mr. Barr indicated, according to government officials and others familiar with their simmering frustrations. At stake in the dispute — the first evidence of tension between Mr. Barr and the special counsel’s office — is who shapes the public’s initial understanding of one of the most consequential government investigations in American history. Some members of Mr. Mueller’s team are concerned that, because Mr. Barr created the first narrative of the special counsel’s findings, Americans’ views will have hardened before the investigation’s conclusions become public. Mr. Barr has said he will move quickly to release the nearly 400-page report but needs time to scrub out confidential information. The special counsel’s investigators had already written multiple summaries of the report, and some team members believe that Mr. Barr should have included more of their material in the four-page letter he wrote on March 24 laying out their main conclusions, according to government officials familiar with the investigation. Mr. Barr only briefly cited the special counsel’s work in his letter. transcript Hosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Theo Balcomb, Lisa Tobin and Paige Cowett, and edited by Larissa Anderson The attorney general turned a report of nearly 400 pages into a four-page summary. Members of the special counsel’s team say something was lost. michael barbaro From The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today: The Mueller team sent its report to the attorney general, William Barr. The attorney general sent a summary of that report to Congress. Now, new reporting shows members of Mueller’s team feel that Barr’s summary did not reflect the report they wrote. It’s Thursday, April 4. So take us back to the beginning of last week. What do we know at that point? nicholas fandos So we knew that Bill Barr, taking Bob Mueller’s 300- to 400-page report, had gone through it extensively and boiled down what he called the “principal conclusions” to just four pages. michael barbaro Nick Fandos covers Congress. Mike Schmidt covers national security. michael schmidt We were in this unusual situation where the special counsel, Robert Mueller, had sent his report to the attorney general, said, I found no evidence that the campaign conspired with Russia to impact the election. But he declined to make a decision on obstruction. nicholas fandos And what he said was Mueller didn’t reach what Barr called a “traditional prosecutorial decision.” In other words, Mueller presented evidence for the fact that the president may have obstructed justice but didn’t go as far as to conclude that he had. He essentially punted to the attorney general’s office. michael schmidt And in this case, by Mueller not reaching a determination, he leaves the door open for Barr to come in to say, O.K., Mueller didn’t make a determination on this issue of obstruction. He did on collusion. I’m going to look at all the facts. And he makes his determination — no case to be made here on both of these issues. The problem, though, is that the perception is that Mueller, the independent investigator who’s there to do an inquiry free of politics, has not made a call on this central question. But Barr, the president’s appointee, who’s been there just for a few months, is making the decision. So the question is, is the fix in? Why is it, if Mueller didn’t come to an answer, the attorney general did? michael barbaro So at the beginning of last week, we know that Mueller made the unusual decision not to make a call. And Barr made the unusual decision to make a call. And the question is, why? michael schmidt It’s not unusual that Barr made a call. The Justice Department is there to decide whether people broke the law or not. And he was doing that. What’s different and unusual here is that Barr and Mueller don’t look like they’re on the same page. [music]  michael schmidt Mueller said, I can’t make a determination on this issue. And Barr did. So why is it that they looked at it differently? Why was it that Mueller, the prosecutor here, didn’t do the one thing that prosecutors at the Justice Department do, which is make a call? nicholas fandos And that was the question that we’ve spent the last week trying to figure out. What is the difference here? What is the evidence that they’re looking at? And why did Mueller and Barr make the decisions that they made around this question of obstruction of justice? michael barbaro And what have we now learned? nicholas fandos What we’ve now learned is that nobody’s happy. The team that was working — or at least some of the team that was working with Bob Mueller feels that Barr stepped in and filled the vacuum in a way that didn’t properly capture what their 22-month investigation found. And Barr’s team feels that Bob Mueller fell short of doing his job. michael barbaro So let’s start with the Barr side. Explain more about why the attorney general and those around him are upset. michael schmidt So in not reaching a decision on obstruction of justice, Barr has to go out on his own and make that determination without the top cover of the independent investigator who went out and was supposed to make a determination on whether the president broke the law. michael barbaro And what do you mean by “top cover“? michael schmidt One of the reasons you have a special counsel is to insulate an investigation from politics and then, when the investigation is concluded, have a way of holding up the product of the inquiry, the fruits of it, to the public and saying, look, this was done free of politics. We assessed this matter based on the facts. And now you have a result that is exposed, at least in part, to the perception that the president’s guy made the decision. michael barbaro The attorney general. michael schmidt Correct. nicholas fandos Undercutting one of the key points of Mueller’s appointment in the first place. michael barbaro And you’re saying that the people in the Justice Department and that Barr himself are upset to be put in that position? michael schmidt Well, the system’s not working the way it’s supposed to. You had Mueller there for one reason — yea or nay on crimes. And on one of these central questions, he couldn’t get there. And by stepping back and saying, I don’t know, it allows at least the Democrats to say, what? How was this decision made? How did they get to this? How is it that the president’s political appointee was the ultimate decider? nicholas fandos And it gives them real credence to go and say, we need to see all the evidence. We need to see the whole file here because the president’s handpicked man made this decision. Maybe we’d reach a different conclusion if we looked at the evidence. Bob Mueller seems to have. michael barbaro So then why did Barr choose to make a call on obstruction of justice if he knew and was upset that this was going to be seen as hyper-political and that it would fan the flames of Democrats in Congress? nicholas fandos The problem for Barr was that when he got the report and looked at the evidence, to him, it was a pretty clear case that you would not press this kind of charge, that the president hadn’t obstructed justice. Now, you’ve got to remember that Barr comes to the job with a pretty expansive view of executive power. As Democrats made famous, he wrote a memo before he was appointed attorney general arguing that certain acts by the president shouldn’t be construed as obstruction of justice. They’re part of his executive powers. And so he looked at this and, I mean, he can’t make the same decision that Mueller did. Somebody has to make a choice about whether or not this is a chargeable offense. And he looked at it and says, well, in our judgment and this team’s judgment, it’s not. michael barbaro So Barr reads the report and thinks, what are you talking about it’s not clear whether or not there was obstruction of justice? There, in his mind, clearly wasn’t. nicholas fandos Barr does acknowledge that there is evidence, basically, of behavior that could be construed as obstructive. He gives credence to what Mueller is presenting but says, when you add it all up, it doesn’t tip into — michael schmidt Criminality. nicholas fandos — criminal obstructive territory. michael barbaro Right. And while it felt political for Barr to reach a conclusion, to make a call that Mueller wouldn’t, I have to think it would have felt even more political in Barr’s mind for Congress to be the one to perform that role. And so he was upset to have to make this call, but, it sounds like, felt that he had to. michael schmidt I don’t know if he’s upset as much as he looks at this situation and says, this is not the way it’s supposed to be working. Someone needs to make a decision on whether the president broke the law. I’ll step in and do that. And I think I can do that based on the facts. nicholas fandos And Congress can still play a role. I’m redacting the report. I’ll give it to you with sensitive information blacked out. And then you can make your own judgment. But the public has an intense interest in this. And I’ve got to say something. And I decide whether acts broke the law or not. And I don’t think this one did. michael barbaro Do we know if Mueller’s team expected Barr to make this call on obstruction of justice after they declined to do so? nicholas fandos We don’t know precisely what the Mueller team expected on this obstruction question. It seems that they were not clear in communicating to the Justice Department what they wanted. It may not have mattered anyway. But what we do know is that after Barr came out with this four-page summary, which essentially exonerated the president on collusion and said he did not break the law on obstruction, some members of Mr. Mueller’s team felt that he had inadequately and only partially represented the work of their 22-month investigation. michael barbaro So this is the other side of your reporting — that not only was the Barr side disappointed with the Mueller side, the Mueller side was disappointed with the Barr side. nicholas fandos What we have learned is that since Barr made his public statement about a week ago, members of the Mueller team have told associates that they feel, essentially, that his work — if it wasn’t misrepresentative of theirs — didn’t give the full picture, which they believe is more damaging to the president than the attorney general’s letter lets on. Now, we are not saying that every member of the Mueller team is frustrated by this. We don’t know what Bob Mueller himself thinks. He remains one of the black boxes at the center of this investigation. But there are members of the team who were involved in the decision-making around these issues that we’ve been talking about who have watched and been disappointed and angry about how it’s being characterized. michael barbaro And what is the focus of their disappointment, to the degree you understand it? nicholas fandos So when they read Bill Barr’s concise four-page letter, they were frustrated that he had not drawn more from their own work. And in fact, what we discovered in reporting this piece out is that they had prepared summaries of their own work that were part of the report that they handed over to the Justice Department a couple of weeks ago and felt that some of that material could have easily been drawn into what Mr. Barr handed over. So not that he shouldn’t have made a decision about whether the president obstructed justice or not in a criminal sense, but that concurrent with that, he should have put out more of their evidence or analysis to fill out the public picture. The Justice Department says those summaries had sensitive information in them, classified information, secretive grand jury information that couldn’t become public, and ultimately didn’t use any of it. michael schmidt So what Mueller’s folks are essentially saying is, hey, we wrote these summaries. If you were going to go out and say something about this investigation, and you were going to do something as extreme or as declarative as clearing the president, why is it that you didn’t include some of the things that we found? michael barbaro And specifically, why didn’t you include some stuff that we found that was pretty damning? You’re making it seem like the president didn’t do anything wrong. michael schmidt Donald Trump has come out in the days after Barr’s declaration and said the Mueller report was beautiful. And it completely exonerates him. If you’re an investigator who spent the last two years looking at Donald Trump, and you think there’s a lot of questionable behavior there, that is something that is going to irritate you mightily. michael barbaro I mean, do either of you think that the Mueller people have a legitimate point here? Or is this a classic case of pride of authorship? They wanted to see their work in the public summary. nicholas fandos I don’t think that we fully know. What seems clear in our reporting is that there was no specific communication or agreement by the Mueller team to the Barr team — you should use these things, or we want these things to be out. They seem to have had an intention. And they certainly now have a regret about it. But we don’t know what interaction there was in the actual decision-making process that happened that weekend two weeks ago. michael barbaro Well, so why do we think that Barr chose not to include more of what was in these summaries, especially the negative material, in his four-page summary? michael schmidt I think there’s one big, broad reason and another contemporary reason, the broad reason being that Barr and many Justice Department officials and, for many years, prosecutors believe that if they decide not to charge someone, the fruits of the investigation should not be just thrown out there for the public or for the enemies of the person who were investigated. michael barbaro Dirty laundry should not be aired if the subject of those dirty laundry are not charged with a crime. michael schmidt If you cannot meet this incredibly high bar of bringing a federal prosecution, that doesn’t mean you then get to just take the trash and just throw it out in the street and let the public rummage through it. michael barbaro And Mike, by the contemporary example you referred to, I’m assuming you’re talking about James Comey. michael schmidt I’m talking about the July 2016 press conference that James Comey held. It’s right in the heat of the presidential election. He stands up and says, we, the F.B.I., have done this investigation into Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email account. We don’t think there is a case to be made here. But we found some very questionable behavior in how she handled sensitive national security secrets. The press conference was seen as very damaging to Clinton even though a case was never made. michael barbaro And so you’re saying that Barr’s view would be, I’m not going to be the one to replicate that by drawing from these Mueller team summaries and putting those out into the public sphere. michael schmidt Correct. We don’t use criminal investigations to go out and find damaging things that may not be crimes that we then simply release to the public to be used against someone. nicholas fandos The problem is, this was never a normal or average criminal investigation. It has broad national security implications. And it has implications for almost every decision that’s made at the highest levels of the government. michael schmidt This is more about a pathway of how you deal with the president’s conduct. And what it appears from the Mueller side is that they’re saying, look, this is the president of the United States. There’s some conduct here that we think the public and Congress should see. And O.K., Justice Department, it may not be criminal. But this is the president. And this needs to be examined more thoroughly by the political process and by Congress. It’s about a pathway of dealing with the president. nicholas fandos And Bill Barr doesn’t seem to disagree with that, fundamentally. He said throughout that he wants to make as much of this report public as possible. But he doesn’t think that that absolves him of the Justice Department’s role of saying whether or not the president or his campaign broke the law. And so he’s grappling with the Justice Department’s aversion to talk about individuals that it’s not saying broke the law. But yet he knows that the public and the Congress want and probably are owed more information about what did happen. And so he’s kind of operating somewhere in the middle of those two things. michael schmidt The difference here is that if I was under investigation, and the Justice Department determined that I didn’t break the law, then there’s no other process that really needs to be dealt with me. Maybe my company needs to decide whether I get fired or not for that conduct. In this instance, there’s another issue with the president. O.K., the president didn’t break the law. But maybe the president did things with his power that the public should know about, Congress should know about, and need to be more closely examined. Because maybe it’s not just about breaking the law. It’s about how he conducted himself as president. And does Congress need to deal with that? And what we are starting to see from Mueller’s side is this frustration that, hey, we think there’s some bad stuff that happened here. But by Barr coming out and not disclosing that but saying the president didn’t break the law, he is casting the die on how the public will later look at the president’s conduct. It will say that for several weeks after we finished our report, the only thing that was out there was Bill Barr saying the president didn’t break the law, and the president turning around and saying, I was fully exonerated. And they’re saying, hey, America, we think more of this process needs to play out. michael barbaro Right. michael schmidt So this all comes down to the vexing question of, how do we investigate a sitting president? And how is that done in a way that the public has the utmost confidence in that? And in that is this tension between how much independence the investigator should have. In Nixon, that pendulum swung too far in the president’s direction. In the Starr investigation of Clinton, it went the other way. The investigator had too much power. And here, between Mueller and Barr’s teams, they are fighting that same fight and have different understandings of how this should all be dealt with. And it’s the same issue that we’ve been looking at for 50 years, just the latest episode of it. michael barbaro So inside of one presidential investigation, these two teams are embodying all the tensions that have basically been present since Watergate. nicholas fandos Correct. michael schmidt It’s how much you can tell the public, and how is apparent misconduct by the president dealt with? And there’s no clear pathway on that. So whatever Barr does will be viewed by one side as political and laying on the brakes for the president. Whatever Mueller does will be viewed by the president’s enemies as trying to get him. And the confidence in that process then erodes. And it’s messy. And it’s hard to figure out. What are the real facts here? What really happened? michael barbaro But at this point, we’re just talking about the summary that Bill Barr sent to Congress. We’re still waiting on the full report. So won’t this tension that you’re describing eventually be more or less resolved when we learn how much information we’ll ultimately have access to? nicholas fandos It may be. And we may see a very different set of facts at the end of the day. But I think the question here is about who sets the narrative for the intervening period of time. It may end up being a month before we see a fuller version of the Mueller report. And for that time, Bill Barr’s conclusion that the president didn’t break the law is going to be the dominant narrative. And I think that what we’re hearing from members of the Mueller team is a concern that by the time their fuller work does come out, the narrative is baked — so much so that even if it shows, for instance, that the president didn’t break the law but abused his office or conducted acts that Congress will deem inappropriate for his office, that there’s not room to have a full debate around that, that the conclusions about the work that they did for 22 months will have been prejudged at that point, and that it won’t quite matter what the report says for the president’s political fate. michael barbaro Nick, Mike, thank you very much. nicholas fandos Thank you guys. michael schmidt Thanks for having us. archived recording (jerry nadler) The committee has a job to do. The Constitution charges Congress with holding the president accountable for alleged official misconduct. michael barbaro On Wednesday, the House Judiciary Committee voted to authorize the use of subpoenas to obtain a full copy of the Mueller report. archived recording (jerry nadler) That job requires us to evaluate the evidence for ourselves — not the attorney general’s summary, not a substantially redacted synopsis, but the full report and the underlying evidence. michael barbaro The committee’s chairman, Democratic representative Jerry Nadler of New York, said he would not immediately issue a subpoena. But his power to do so will intensify pressure on the attorney general, William Barr, to quickly release an unredacted copy of the report. archived recording (jerry nadler) I will give him time to change his mind. But if we cannot reach an accommodation, then we will have no choice but to issue subpoenas for these materials. michael barbaro We’ll be right back. [music]  michael barbaro Here’s what else you need to know today. A Times analysis of deadly terror attacks involving white extremists has found that at least a third of them were inspired by fellow white men who carried out similar attacks and had either professed admiration for them or interest in their tactics. In one case, a school shooter in New Mexico corresponded with a gunman who attacked a mall in Munich. All together, the two men killed 11 people. The connections between the killers crossed continents and highlight how the internet and social media have spread white extremism. And — archived recording (joe biden) I’ve always tried to be — in my career, I’ve always tried to make a human connection. That’s my responsibility, I think. I shake hands. I hug people. I grab men and women by the shoulders and say, you can do this. michael barbaro On Wednesday, former vice president Joe Biden responded to a series of complaints from women that his close physical contact had made them uncomfortable. archived recording (joe biden) Our social norms have begun to change. They’ve shifted. And the boundaries of protecting personal space have been reset. And I get it. I get it. I hear what they’re saying. I understand it. michael barbaro In a video message sent as Biden prepares for a possible presidential run, he defended his behavior but said he is able to change. archived recording (joe biden) But I’ll always believe governing, quite frankly — life, for that matter — is about connecting. michael barbaro That’s it for “The Daily.” I’m Michael Barbaro. See you tomorrow. However, the special counsel’s office never asked Mr. Barr to release the summaries soon after he received the report, a person familiar with the investigation said. And the Justice Department quickly determined that the summaries contain sensitive information, like classified material, secret grand-jury testimony and information related to current federal investigations that must remain confidential, according to two government officials. Federal prosecutors are pursuing a number of criminal inquiries that grew out of the investigation led by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III. Mr. Barr was also wary of departing from Justice Department practice not to disclose derogatory details in closing an investigation, according to two government officials familiar with Mr. Barr’s thinking. They pointed to the decision by James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director, to harshly criticize Hillary Clinton in 2016 while announcing that he was recommending no charges in the inquiry into her email practices. The officials and others interviewed declined to flesh out why some of the special counsel’s investigators viewed their findings as potentially more damaging for the president than Mr. Barr explained, although the report is believed to examine Mr. Trump’s efforts to thwart the investigation. It was unclear how much discussion Mr. Mueller and his investigators had with senior Justice Department officials about how their findings would be made public. It was also unclear how widespread the vexation is among the special counsel team, which included 19 lawyers, about 40 F.B.I. agents and other personnel. At the same time, Mr. Barr and his advisers have expressed their own frustrations about Mr. Mueller and his team. Mr. Barr and other Justice Department officials believe the special counsel’s investigators fell short of their task by declining to decide whether Mr. Trump illegally obstructed the inquiry, according to the two government officials. After Mr. Mueller made no judgment on the obstruction matter, Mr. Barr stepped in to declare that he himself had cleared Mr. Trump of wrongdoing. Representatives for the Justice Department and the special counsel declined to comment on Wednesday on views inside both Mr. Mueller’s office and the Justice Department. They pointed to departmental regulations requiring Mr. Mueller to file a confidential report to the attorney general detailing prosecution decisions and to Mr. Barr’s separate vow to send a redacted version of that report to Congress. Under the regulations, Mr. Barr can publicly release as much of the document as he deems appropriate. The letter, by Attorney General William P. Barr, details the main findings of the special counsel’s two-year investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election. A debate over how the special counsel’s conclusions are represented has played out in public as well as in recent weeks, with Democrats in Congress accusing Mr. Barr of intervening to color the outcome of the investigation in the president’s favor. In his letter to Congress outlining the report’s chief conclusions, Mr. Barr said that Mr. Mueller found no conspiracy between Mr. Trump’s campaign and Russia’s 2016 election interference. While Mr. Mueller made no decision on his other main question, whether the president illegally obstructed the inquiry, he explicitly stopped short of exonerating Mr. Trump. Mr. Mueller’s decision to skip a prosecutorial judgment “leaves it to the attorney general to determine whether the conduct described in the report constitutes a crime,” Mr. Barr wrote. He and his deputy, Rod J. Rosenstein, decided that the evidence was insufficient to conclude that Mr. Trump had committed an obstruction offense. Mr. Barr has come under criticism for sharing so little. But according to officials familiar with the attorney general’s thinking, he and his aides limited the details they revealed because they were worried about wading into political territory. Mr. Barr and his advisers expressed concern that if they included derogatory information about Mr. Trump while clearing him, they would face a storm of criticism like what Mr. Comey endured in the Clinton investigation. Legal experts attacked Mr. Comey at the time for violating Justice Department practice to keep confidential any negative information about anyone uncovered during investigations. The practice exists to keep from unfairly sullying people’s reputations without giving them a chance to respond in court. Mr. Rosenstein cited the handling of the Clinton case in a memo the White House used to rationalize Mr. Trump’s firing of Mr. Comey. Though it was not clear what findings the special counsel’s investigators viewed as troubling for the president, Mr. Barr has suggested that Mr. Mueller may have found evidence of malfeasance in investigating possible obstruction of justice. “The report sets out evidence on both sides of the question,” Mr. Barr wrote in his March 24 letter. Mr. Mueller examined Mr. Trump’s attempts to maintain control over the investigation, including his firing of Mr. Comey and his attempt to oust Mr. Mueller and Attorney General Jeff Sessions to install a loyalist to oversee the inquiry. More than two years of criminal indictments and steady revelations about Trump campaign contacts with Russians reveal the scope of the special counsel investigation. The fallout from Mr. Barr’s letter outlining the Russia investigation’s main findings overshadowed his intent to make public as much of the entire report as possible, a goal he has stressed since his confirmation hearing in January. He reiterated to lawmakers on Friday that he wanted both Congress and the public to read the report and said that the department would by mid-April furnish a version with sensitive material blacked out. He offered to testify on Capitol Hill soon after turning over the report. Mr. Barr, who took office in February, has shown flashes of frustration over how the unveiling of the investigation’s findings has unfolded. In his follow-up letter to lawmakers on Friday, he chafed at how the news media and some lawmakers had characterized his March 24 letter. Mr. Barr and Mr. Mueller have been friends for 30 years, and Mr. Barr said during his confirmation hearing in January that he trusted Mr. Mueller to conduct an impartial investigation. He said he told Mr. Trump that Mr. Mueller was a “straight shooter who should be dealt with as such.” Mr. Mueller served as the head of the Justice Department’s criminal division when Mr. Barr was attorney general under George Bush, and their families are friends. Mr. Barr’s promises of transparency have done little to appease Democrats who control the House. The House Judiciary Committee voted on Wednesday to let its chairman use a subpoena to try to compel Mr. Barr to hand over a full copy of the Mueller report and its underlying evidence to Congress. The chairman, Representative Jerrold Nadler, Democrat of New York, has not said when he will use the subpoena, but made clear on Wednesday that he did not trust Mr. Barr’s characterization of what Mr. Mueller’s team found. “The Constitution charges Congress with holding the president accountable for alleged official misconduct,” Mr. Nadler said. “That job requires us to evaluate the evidence for ourselves — not the attorney general’s summary, not a substantially redacted synopsis, but the full report and the underlying evidence.” Republicans, who have embraced Mr. Barr’s letter clearing Mr. Trump, have accused the Democrats of trying to prolong the cloud over his presidency and urged them to move on. Mr. Trump has fully embraced Mr. Barr’s version of events. For days, he has pronounced the outcome of the investigation a “complete and total exoneration” and called for the Justice Department and his allies on Capitol Hill to investigate and hold accountable those responsible for opening the inquiry. Katie Benner and Adam Goldman contributed reporting. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter. OpinionNeal K. Katyal   Supported by By Michael S. Schmidt and Charlie Savage WASHINGTON — Over the 22 months of their inquiry, Robert S. Mueller III’s investigators examined countless documents and interviewed dozens of witnesses, including some of the highest-ranking lawyers and aides in the White House, to determine whether President Trump obstructed justice. But in the end, the special counsel reached no conclusion — instead producing a report that merely marshaled evidence on both sides. Then, Attorney General William P. Barr, a political appointee whom Mr. Trump installed less than a month ago and who began reading Mr. Mueller’s report on Friday, stepped in. With the concurrence of his deputy, Rod J. Rosenstein, Mr. Barr seized the opportunity to render a judgment — pronouncing Mr. Trump clear of committing any criminal offense. The propriety of that move by Mr. Barr — who had written an unsolicited memo last year arguing that Mr. Mueller ought not be permitted to investigate Mr. Trump for obstruction of justice — is certain to be a focus of political contention as Congress grapples with what it now knows about the still-secret Mueller report. Representative Jerrold Nadler, the New York Democrat who is chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, cited Mr. Barr’s memo as a reason for suspicion and suggested that Mr. Barr’s action may amount to a “hasty partisan interpretation of the facts.” Reiterating demands to disclose the special counsel’s report itself and saying he would seek testimony from Mr. Barr, Mr. Nadler added, “I would in fact wonder if the attorney general pressured the special counsel into not making that finding so he could make the finding.” But Mr. Barr’s clearing of Mr. Trump will arm Republicans with fresh arguments to dismiss Democrats’ inquiries as politically motivated. The top Republican on the Judiciary Committee, Representative Doug Collins of Georgia, urged Mr. Nadler to drop issues that Mr. Mueller’s report covered. Mr. Trump’s lawyers had believed that out of all the issues Mr. Mueller examined, the president faced the most criminal exposure from the obstruction investigation. Mr. Mueller had investigated a range of the president’s actions as possible obstruction: pressuring James B. Comey, then the F.B.I. director, to drop an investigation into Michael T. Flynn, Mr. Trump’s first national security adviser; firing Mr. Comey; and the president’s lawyer dangling pardons to witnesses. The pattern of behavior raised the question of whether Mr. Trump had violated obstruction-of-justice laws, which make it a crime to impede an investigation with corrupt intent. Courts have ruled that otherwise lawful actions can be such a crime if the motive was malign. But investigators never got a chance to interrogate Mr. Trump about his motives. Concerned about his penchant for falsehoods and whether he might perjure himself, the president’s lawyers persuaded the special counsel team to accept written answers to their questions. transcript Hosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Theo Balcomb and Jessica Cheung, and edited by Lisa Tobin What does the Mueller report say? The attorney general offered an early glimpse. michael schmidt Hello? Hello? Hello? maggie haberman Hello. michael schmidt Maggie? maggie haberman Hi. michael schmidt Can you hear me? maggie haberman Yes, can you hear me? michael schmidt Yeah, hold on, hold on, hold on. Wearing two headphones right now. maggie haberman Mm. Sounds about right. michael schmidt Can you hear me? Oh, that’s better. maggie haberman We gotcha. We’re just waiting on the star. michael barbaro Hi. maggie haberman It’s Michael Barbaro, host of “The Daily.” michael schmidt Doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo. michael barbaro From The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today — Attorney General William Barr has sent a letter to Congress summarizing the findings of the special counsel investigation: No coordination with Russia. More complicated on obstruction of justice. My colleagues Maggie Haberman and Mike Schmidt explain. It’s Monday, March 25. O.K. Maggie, like, it is 6:00 p.m. on Sunday evening. Two hours ago, the attorney general, Bill Barr, sent a letter to congressional leaders outlining the major conclusions of the special counsel’s report. michael schmidt The report is broken into two parts. The first one is on the biggest, most central question that has surrounded the president since he was elected: What are the ties between his campaign and Russia? And on that issue, Barr is unequivocal. michael barbaro What does he say? michael schmidt He says there are no ties between what Russia did in the election and Trump’s campaign. That despite how aggressively the Russians tried to interfere in our election, and even outreach that they made to the campaign, they were able to find no evidence that they actually worked together. michael barbaro But Mike, help me understand this. In the lead-up to the report, the Mueller investigation issued a number of subpoenas and charges that felt like they revealed forms of collusion. I’m thinking about Papadopoulos, Manafort, a meeting inside Trump Tower that involved the president’s son and his son-in-law. Those all felt like forms of collusion. michael schmidt I think that what went on was that the Trump campaign was sort of collusion-curious in the sense that they were open to sort of talking to anyone about anything. And the Russians were reaching out right. And that meant that there were a lot of odd contacts that occurred. What I think Mueller and Barr are saying is that even though a lot of that stuff looks funky, we have no evidence that they linked hands and tried to work together to hurt Clinton. michael barbaro So collusion-curious does not equal coordination. maggie haberman No. Being interested in getting information is something that you have heard either the president say or people around the president say. You know, of course, we took these meetings. Of course when people reached out to us, we listened to them. Who wouldn’t? Their argument has been that they were just doing what anyone would do. And the other argument they’ve made repeatedly is that they were too discombobulated and too green and too new at this to even know how to collude. And as someone who covered that campaign, I can tell you there is some logic to that argument. michael barbaro As somebody who’s slightly more removed from the day to day of this investigation than either of you, it’s starting to feel from this summary from Bill Barr of the Mueller report that what the investigation found was what we all kind of knew the investigation found as it was finding. That there was nothing all that big being held back. And that helps us understand this conclusion. maggie haberman What we saw in indictments either of Paul Manafort, or of his deputy Rick Gates, who pleaded guilty, or of Mike Flynn or George Papadopoulos, this might have been, it seems, all there was. This was all the information that they were able to prove existed. michael barbaro Mike, what do you think of that? michael schmidt Let’s go back and look at the indictments and guilty pleas. George Papadopoulos, a campaign official who had contacts with individuals who said the Russians were going to be releasing information about Hillary Clinton’s emails before it came out. When George Papadopoulos pleads guilty, he does not plead guilty to conspiring with the Russians. He pleads guilty to making false statements to investigators about that contact. The president’s former national security adviser, Michael Flynn, has these odd phone calls with the Russian ambassador during the transition in which they discuss lifting sanctions that have just been imposed by the Obama administration for election meddling. When Mike Flynn goes into court to plead guilty, he doesn’t plead guilty to conspiring with the Russians. He pleads guilty to making false statements to the F.B.I. about it. So as we went along in the investigation over the past 22 months, we never saw charges that said that the campaign conspired with Russia. There was some question — was Mueller holding out something like that until the end? Was he going to wait and then make a move on it? Well, today, we know that they never found anything. michael barbaro Right. He wasn’t making those kinds of indictments because he didn’t have any evidence of it. maggie haberman Or at least he didn’t have enough to bring an indictment. I mean, he might have found strains of information, he might have found pieces along the way, but it clearly was not enough to bring a charge. michael barbaro So in the end, this was a bunch of people around the president lying, perhaps to avoid what might look like coordination if they were going to tell the truth, but not actually coordinating, according to the legal definition. michael schmidt Correct. michael barbaro And what about the second question in this letter, the question of obstruction of justice? What does Barr’s summary of the Mueller report say about that? michael schmidt So the obstruction part is not nearly as clean-cut as the collusion section. On obstruction, Barr essentially says that Mueller did not come to his own determination on whether the president obstructed justice. That Mueller could not indict or exonerate the president for that charge. But that left the door open for Barr to say, look, Mueller has not made a determination on this. I, as the attorney general, along with the deputy attorney general, Rod Rosenstein, will make that call. And we do not believe there is a case to be made the president obstructed justice. michael barbaro I don’t quite understand what’s going on here. Why do we think, Mike, that Mueller declined to weigh in on this question of obstruction of justice? Why leave it kind of up in the air? maggie haberman There’s not really a full explanation for that. And I’m not sure. For the past 22 months, Democrats and a lot of folks in the media have built Mueller up as sort of this paragon of justice, and someone who was willing and able to go out and make determinations and calls on really tough issues in non-partisan, follow-the-facts ways. And here, we have Mueller essentially saying, I don’t really have a determination on it. For each of the relevant actions, the letter says, that were investigated, the report sets out evidence on both sides of the question and leaves unresolved what the special counsel views as, quote, “difficult issues of law and fact concerning whether the president’s actions and intent could be viewed as obstruction.” The special counsel states that, quote, “while this report does not conclude the president committed a crime, it also does not exonerate him.” michael barbaro Let’s pick apart what I think we can all agree is the most salient example of this, where maybe disentangling motive and law and obstruction of justice is really tangled up. And that would be the firing of James Comey. The president at first says it’s not about Russia, then goes on television, says, it really is about Russia. And yet we all know that the president can pretty much fire anyone at that level if he wants to. Is that what Bill Barr, in summarizing Mueller, is saying? That this stuff is just really difficult, and so we’re not making a call? maggie haberman Mueller is saying this is really difficult, and it’s hard to get in the president’s head and know what his intent was and his frame of mind was. And he decides that he is not going to be the one to make that call. Bill Barr, not wanting, I think, to leave this as an open-ended thing puts a pin in it and says, this is done. michael barbaro And says, I will make that call. maggie haberman I will make that call. And we do not believe that this is sufficient to say that the president obstructed justice. And remember, obstruction of justice was key to Richard Nixon. This was a piece that the president’s folks were worried about. They had felt really confident the whole time that there would not be an evidence-based case of conspiracy related to Russia. But they were concerned about what it would find on the obstruction piece. michael schmidt Interestingly — and I still don’t think this issue has gotten enough attention — the central question here was the president’s intent when he took actions like firing Comey. But at the end of the day, the president of the United States never sat for an interview with investigators to answer those questions. So here you have the attorney general saying, this thing is done, but we’ve never heard from Donald Trump on it. And the reason we never heard from Donald Trump on it was that his lawyers were so afraid that if he sat down to answer questions, he would make a factually inaccurate statement and would increase his criminal exposure. michael barbaro And it’s within the president’s rights not to sit down for such an interview. michael schmidt That’s not true. The Justice Department could have subpoenaed him for an interview. michael barbaro But why didn’t they? michael schmidt One of the unanswered questions in this. But in an investigation where the central question was what was the president’s intent, Bob Mueller was never able to ask him that question. michael barbaro But he wasn’t able to ask him the question because he never issued a subpoena. He never pursued all legal avenues? maggie haberman We don’t know whether he pursued a legal avenue and was told that there wasn’t sufficient anything to go get a subpoena, or whether he just didn’t seek one. And that is, to me right now as we sit here, an open question. I don’t know whether Bob Mueller actually sought to go after this subpoena, which a lot of people thought that he would do. We’re not going to know for some time. michael schmidt But what we did learn on Friday when Barr first announced the end of the Mueller investigation was there was no instance in the investigation where Mueller wanted to take a major step, like indict someone, or subpoena them, or get a search warrant, in which he was told by his superiors at the Justice Department that he could not do that. So that would sort of bolster the argument that Mueller was not stopped by the Justice Department from seeking a subpoena to interview the president. He’s saying there were no instances in which Mueller was stopped from moving forward with something he wanted to do. michael barbaro No matter what, in this moment where so much of this second question of obstruction of justice comes down to the president’s motivation, which is essentially a matter of getting into someone’s head, never hearing from President Trump feels very significant. maggie haberman It’s a huge deal. Barr lays it out in this letter to Congress about what Mueller’s thinking was, where he describes that the report sets out evidence on both sides of the question. And I think what you have there is the president’s lawyers have repeatedly offered up explanations for why the president could have been doing something that were not necessarily nefarious or that were not undermining. And the main thing that they have said over and over is, this isn’t obstruction because it’s all playing out in public. It’s not hidden. He has a right to express his views as a citizen of the country. And I anticipate that should we ever see what is in this report, that is going to show up a lot. michael schmidt When Maggie and I would talk to Rudy Giuliani during the investigation — michael barbaro The president’s lawyer. michael schmidt He would say things like, obstruction of justice and trying to interfere in an investigation is going into a dark alley and threatening to break someone’s leg if they cooperate with investigators. It’s bribing someone to not testify. But what Giuliani said is that all this stuff is happening out in the open. He’s not trying to twist anyone’s arm. He’s just blowing off steam about the investigation. And what conspiracy is there in that? michael barbaro Were either of you surprised by either of these actions outlined in this letter when it comes to obstruction of justice — by Mueller declining to make a call, or by Barr being so quick to make a call? maggie haberman I was not surprised that Mueller didn’t make a call. I was surprised that Barr moved so quickly. I did not think that the collusion aspect of this letter was going to be revelatory, but I did think that the obstruction one possibly would be. And it shuts it down definitively. There is a piece of the letter that we haven’t talked about, which is that Bill Barr, the attorney general, tells Congress that Robert Mueller, the special counsel, recognized that, quote, “the evidence does not establish that the president was involved in an underlying crime related to Russian election interference. And that while not determinative, the absence of such evidence bears upon the president’s intent with respect to obstruction.” So a big piece of the thinking for Barr seems to have been that since there is not an underlying crime that was found related to the president, that obstruction is harder to prove. michael barbaro In other words, there is a connection between these two questions. Between coordination and obstruction of justice. That if there was no coordination, if there is no original sin, then it’s hard to establish that there was obstruction of justice. maggie haberman Right. If there is no crime that was committed, it is hard to suggest that the president was trying to obstruct justice in the course of pursuing evidence about that crime. And that is an argument that Mike and I also heard the president’s lawyers say repeatedly, which was that there couldn’t be obstruction of justice because there’s nothing to obstruct. michael barbaro Does that seem like universally sound legal logic? That you can’t commit a crime in obstructing investigations into something that wasn’t a crime? Because it certainly feels like if someone’s investigating me, and I decide to stop the investigation in violation of the law, that that could be itself a violation of a law, separate and apart from whether or not what I was being investigated for in the first place was a crime? I mean, are those two things necessarily connected? michael schmidt I think there’s two reasons why the Justice Department would not want to bring a case like this. The first is that if there’s not an underlying crime, then do you really want to bring an obstruction case? Do you really want to go to court to try and convince a jury that someone took actions where there was nothing to cover up? I think that’s a tough case to make. The second thing is that while the president huffed and puffed a lot about this investigation, I’m not sure how much real damage it did to it. Bob Mueller was able to pursue his inquiry. He was not fired. They finished what they had. They weren’t impeded by the Justice Department. So what was the real damage? If the president was obstructing, how did he really hurt the investigation? Give me the damage report. And I don’t think at the end of the day there was that much that actually hurt Mueller’s team’s ability to do their job. It may have been loud, it may have been annoying, it may have been dispiriting. But I think they were able to pursue what they needed to. maggie haberman I think, also, there’s a third point, which is that I think that Bob Mueller was very mindful that he was dealing with the presidency and the damage that an ongoing case like this, if it was iffy, and not locked solid, not completely nailed down, could cause not just the office of the presidency, but the kind of trauma that brings to a country. michael barbaro I’m very struck as we’re talking, Maggie and Mike, that, at least according to this letter, this is exactly what we have had in front of us all along. maggie haberman Unless the report has a lot of information that we’re not seeing, what we saw play out publicly is what was there. The attorney general made clear that this investigation was ending without a recommendation of more indictments. That includes sealed indictments. This is what we’re getting. It will now move to Capitol Hill, and Democrats will seek to get as much material as they can. But in terms of the part the president was really concerned about in terms of Mueller, that is over. michael barbaro So let’s talk about what Congress is going to do now. Congressional leaders have just received this letter. Mike, you have told us in the past that Democrats were going to be very cautious in how they proceeded under any circumstances. And that if Mueller didn’t find the sort of thing that would force even Republicans in Congress to acknowledge that the president had violated the law, impeachment proceedings would be very unlikely. And it seems like this letter is not at all what Democrats would have needed to move forward in that sort of way. michael schmidt I think it takes a lot of wind out of their sails. They basically have full-blown investigations into obstruction and collusion going on. And here, you have Mueller, someone who has far better tools than they will ever have to investigate, coming out and clearing the president on the Russia issue and giving a mixed message on obstruction that allows Barr to clear him there. It gives the Republicans a very good argument to say, why are you guys continuing to look at these issues? Why are you continuing to rummage around in the president’s life when we’ve received clarity on this from the Justice Department? So I think it hurts them. maggie haberman I think that you’re going to see Nancy Pelosi, the Democratic House speaker, proceed carefully. As of late evening Sunday, she still had not said anything about how she was going to handle this. And I think that you are going to see a lot of Republicans reminding Democrats that they were holding Robert Mueller up as this avatar of credibility when the investigation was going on, so that it is hard to now say, we need to know more, because we need to make a determination that he couldn’t. That will almost inevitably look very political. michael schmidt So the Democrats are going to ask for everything that Mueller had in the report. And it’s clear from the letter that a lot of obstruction of justice issues were looked at and detailed and analyzed. And the question is that if the Democrats get their hands on that, how damaging is the obstruction stuff? And is it strong enough to give Democrats more of an oomph on their obstruction investigation? michael barbaro Is it both of your understandings that Congress will get a full copy of the Mueller report that they can then examine for these answers? maggie haberman I don’t think that’s been resolved yet. michael schmidt That’s the big question. michael barbaro Maggie, after months of the president calling the Mueller investigation a witch hunt or worse, would it be better now for him to lean into that description or turn around and say, you know, this investigation is the gold star of investigations, and it says I’m in the clear? maggie haberman There are a lot of people in the White House who are encouraging the president to turn and say, this was a highly respected prosecutor who just said there was no collusion. And I hope we can all accept this and move on, and try to strike a healing note. It is the president’s political instinct to burrow into his base and say, this was a witch hunt, this was a hoax. And that is what I have heard a number of his advisers say publicly in the last few hours. It’s what his son said in a statement that he gave me. I think they are going to go full-on by telling people this was a waste of two years. This was an effort to undo an electoral result in 2016, and don’t let this happen again. michael barbaro And I wonder if you can explain for listeners why it wasn’t what you just said the president might call it — a waste of two years. A waste of everyone’s time and an effort to politically undermine him. maggie haberman It might have had the effect of undermining him. That might have been one of the impacts. But we do know, based on numerous assessments from the intelligence community, that Russians did seek to interfere in the 2016 election. We do know that there were many contacts between Russians and people involved in the Trump campaign. So trying to find out what was at the heart of that, one would think, was not a waste of time. And now there is an answer. There is a world in which the president could say, this gave me a clean bill of health, and now you can trust me going forward. michael barbaro Mike, I want to ask you the same question. What is your explanation for why this investigation was not a waste of time? michael schmidt Well, there were legitimate issues and questions that had to be answered. And along the way, the president took action after action that only made the perception that he did something wrong worse. He fired the F.B.I. director. He asked the F.B.I. director to end an investigation into whether his former national security adviser was talking improperly to the Russian ambassador. He said things publicly about the investigation time and time again to demonize the investigators. He criticized his own attorney general, who recused himself from the Russia investigation. He called Mueller’s team a bunch of angry Democrats. He made the perception worse. And there were things that he did that walked up to the line of obstruction and had to be looked at, that had to be sorted through. Whether it was to clear the president and say, hey, look, he did nothing wrong, for his sake, or to give the public some confidence that the president of the United States was not a Russian agent. michael barbaro So among the questions that had to be answered in an investigation into Russian interference in our election, regardless of the answer, was what was the president’s role in this? And it happens to be that the answer was seemingly nothing illegal. But that answer had to be unearthed. michael schmidt A significant portion of the country thought that the president of the United States either wittingly or unwittingly had worked with a foreign adversary to influence the election. That was something that had to be looked into. michael barbaro And because he didn’t do that, Bill Barr also believes he did not obstruct this investigation. michael schmidt There was nothing to obstruct. maggie haberman At least that’s what they found. michael barbaro No one asked me, but — maggie haberman Michael, what do you think? michael barbaro I think that Russia could never have fathomed just how cosmically disruptive their efforts to influence the election would be. maggie haberman I think they succeeded beyond their wildest dreams, yes. michael schmidt Look at how distracted we’ve been as a country because of this for the past two years. Think about all the other issues that we could have been talking about or looking at. This was an enormous, enormous distraction for the country. maggie haberman And for Donald Trump. michael barbaro Maggie, Mike, thank you very much. maggie haberman Thank you. michael schmidt Thanks for having us. archived recording (donald trump) So after a long look, after a long investigation, after so many people have been so badly hurt, after not looking at the other side, where a lot of bad things happened, a lot of horrible things happened, a lot of very bad things happened for our country, it was just announced there was no collusion with Russia. The most ridiculous thing I’ve ever heard — michael barbaro On Sunday afternoon, on his way back to Washington from his home in Florida, President Trump addressed the major findings of the Mueller report. archived recording (donald trump) There was no obstruction, and none whatsoever. And it was a complete and total exoneration. It’s a shame that our country had to go through this. To be honest, it’s a shame that your president has had to go through this for — before I even got elected, it began. And it began illegally. And hopefully, somebody is going to look at the other side. This was an illegal takedown that failed. And hopefully, somebody is going to be looking at the other side. So it’s complete — michael barbaro Not long after, the Democratic chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, Representative Jerry Nadler of New York, disputed the president’s characterization of the Mueller report during a news conference in New York. archived recording (jerry nadler) Earlier today, I received a four-page letter from Attorney General Barr outlining his summary of Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s report while making a few questionable legal arguments of his own. I take from this letter three points. First, President Trump is wrong. This report does not amount to a so-called “total exoneration.” michael barbaro Nadler seemed to accept Mueller’s conclusion that the president did not coordinate with Russia, but seized on less definitive statements made by Mueller and Barr about whether the president obstructed justice. archived recording (jerry nadler) The attorney general’s comments make it clear that Congress must step in to get the truth and provide full transparency to the American people. The president has not been exonerated by the special counsel. Yet the attorney general has decided not to go further or, apparently, to share those findings with the public. We cannot simply rely on what may be a hasty partisan interpretation of the facts. michael barbaro That’s it for “The Daily.” I’m Michael Barbaro. See you tomorrow. The outcome was a victory for Mr. Trump’s lawyers, who initially pushed the president to cooperate with the investigation but later kept him from sitting down to talk with Mr. Mueller’s investigators about what he had been thinking when he took steps that potentially affected the inquiry. All that the public — or Congress — knows at this point about Mr. Mueller’s findings consists of how Mr. Barr portrayed them in a four-page letter he sent to lawmakers on Sunday. Mr. Mueller cataloged numerous actions by Mr. Trump, Mr. Barr wrote — he did not specify but said most were publicly known — and that the special counsel report presented evidence both for and against concluding that Mr. Trump had broken the law. But in an unusual move Mr. Barr did not explain, Mr. Mueller left that question unresolved, instead stating that “while this report does not conclude that the president committed a crime, it also does not exonerate him,” according to a brief excerpt from the special counsel report that Mr. Barr quoted. With Mr. Rosenstein’s concurrence, Mr. Barr embraced that opening to declare the president broke no law. “The special counsel’s decision to describe the facts of his obstruction investigation without reaching any legal conclusions leaves it to the attorney general to determine whether the conduct described in the report constitutes a crime,” Mr. Barr wrote, adding that he and his deputy “concluded that the evidence developed during the special counsel’s investigation is not sufficient to establish that the president committed an obstruction-of-justice offense.” Mr. Barr wrote that his decision that Mr. Trump violated no criminal obstruction-of-justice laws was not based on the Justice Department’s view that the Constitution does not permit a sitting president to be indicted. If he had relied on that theory, it would have left Mr. Trump vulnerable to potential indictment after he left office. But Mr. Barr appeared to make implicit reference to other disputed constitutional arguments about presidential power, and whether obstruction laws could be legitimately applied to constrain certain actions by a president. Without spelling them out, Mr. Barr quoted the special counsel report as referring to “‘difficult issues’ of law and fact concerning whether the president’s actions and intent could be viewed as obstruction.” Notably, Mr. Trump’s lawyers have taken the position that Congress lacks the authority to constrain in any way how the president exercises his constitutional powers to oversee the executive branch, including deciding whether to direct the Justice Department to close an investigation, to fire a subordinate and to pardon someone. Mr. Barr himself endorsed that view in his June 2018 memo for the Trump administration, when he was still a lawyer in private practice. Under that view, even if a president abuses his power by acting for corrupt reasons, it would be unconstitutional for Congress to make that a crime. Many legal scholars dispute that view, but the Supreme Court has never addressed the issue. It was hard to know from Mr. Barr’s letter what gave Mr. Mueller pause, noted Samuel Buell, a former federal prosecutor who now teaches white-collar criminal law at Duke University. Without seeing Mr. Mueller’s underlying report, he said, it was impossible to evaluate the merits of both Mr. Mueller’s demurral and Mr. Barr’s decision to make a definitive statement in favor of Mr. Trump. “We really need to see what this report says — we need to see the analysis,” he said, adding: “How much of this is Mueller and how much of this is Barr? And certainly it seems a relevant fact to consider that Barr just happens to be someone who, before he became attorney general, had gone on record as someone who was skeptical of the obstruction issue.” Mr. Mueller’s refusal to make any conclusion about obstruction was coupled with a more definitive finding that “the evidence does not establish that the president was involved in an underlying crime related to Russian election interference.” While acknowledging one can be guilty of obstruction of justice even without an underlying crime, Mr. Barr wrote that he and Mr. Rosenstein nevertheless took into account that separate exoneration of Mr. Trump when deciding how to interpret Mr. Trump’s intent with respect to obstruction in the evidence Mr. Mueller had gathered. Obstruction cases are notoriously difficult to prove beyond a reasonable doubt because prosecutors have to prove that the defendant was acting with a corrupt intent, and the evidence is often ambiguous. Essentially, he wrote, that meant Mr. Trump must get the benefit of the doubt: Mr. Mueller’s report, he wrote, “identifies no actions that, in our judgment,” could be proven in court as an obstruction crime. David Kris, who ran the Justice Department’s national security division and now heads the consulting firm Culper Partners, said he was struck by the fact that Mr. Mueller failed to reach a conclusion on whether to prosecute Mr. Trump after nearly two years of work, but Mr. Barr, with Mr. Rosenstein’s help, decided in a single weekend. “It is very unusual to punt on that kind of decision,” he said of Mr. Mueller. “When we read that report and walked a mile in his shoes, we may be able to assess what he did and why he did it. But I confess that I did find it surprising.” Sharon LaFraniere contributed reporting.    

Supported by By Michael S. Schmidt and Charlie Savage WASHINGTON — Over the 22 months of their inquiry, Robert S. Mueller III’s investigators examined countless documents and interviewed dozens of witnesses, including some of the highest-ranking lawyers and aides in the White House, to determine whether President Trump obstructed justice. But in the end, the special counsel reached no conclusion — instead producing a report that merely marshaled evidence on both sides. Then, Attorney General William P. Barr, a political appointee whom Mr. Trump installed less than a month ago and who began reading Mr. Mueller’s report on Friday, stepped in. With the concurrence of his deputy, Rod J. Rosenstein, Mr. Barr seized the opportunity to render a judgment — pronouncing Mr. Trump clear of committing any criminal offense. The propriety of that move by Mr. Barr — who had written an unsolicited memo last year arguing that Mr. Mueller ought not be permitted to investigate Mr. Trump for obstruction of justice — is certain to be a focus of political contention as Congress grapples with what it now knows about the still-secret Mueller report. Representative Jerrold Nadler, the New York Democrat who is chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, cited Mr. Barr’s memo as a reason for suspicion and suggested that Mr. Barr’s action may amount to a “hasty partisan interpretation of the facts.” Reiterating demands to disclose the special counsel’s report itself and saying he would seek testimony from Mr. Barr, Mr. Nadler added, “I would in fact wonder if the attorney general pressured the special counsel into not making that finding so he could make the finding.” But Mr. Barr’s clearing of Mr. Trump will arm Republicans with fresh arguments to dismiss Democrats’ inquiries as politically motivated. The top Republican on the Judiciary Committee, Representative Doug Collins of Georgia, urged Mr. Nadler to drop issues that Mr. Mueller’s report covered. Mr. Trump’s lawyers had believed that out of all the issues Mr. Mueller examined, the president faced the most criminal exposure from the obstruction investigation. Mr. Mueller had investigated a range of the president’s actions as possible obstruction: pressuring James B. Comey, then the F.B.I. director, to drop an investigation into Michael T. Flynn, Mr. Trump’s first national security adviser; firing Mr. Comey; and the president’s lawyer dangling pardons to witnesses. The pattern of behavior raised the question of whether Mr. Trump had violated obstruction-of-justice laws, which make it a crime to impede an investigation with corrupt intent. Courts have ruled that otherwise lawful actions can be such a crime if the motive was malign. But investigators never got a chance to interrogate Mr. Trump about his motives. Concerned about his penchant for falsehoods and whether he might perjure himself, the president’s lawyers persuaded the special counsel team to accept written answers to their questions. transcript Hosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Theo Balcomb and Jessica Cheung, and edited by Lisa Tobin What does the Mueller report say? The attorney general offered an early glimpse. michael schmidt Hello? Hello? Hello? maggie haberman Hello. michael schmidt Maggie? maggie haberman Hi. michael schmidt Can you hear me? maggie haberman Yes, can you hear me? michael schmidt Yeah, hold on, hold on, hold on. Wearing two headphones right now. maggie haberman Mm. Sounds about right. michael schmidt Can you hear me? Oh, that’s better. maggie haberman We gotcha. We’re just waiting on the star. michael barbaro Hi. maggie haberman It’s Michael Barbaro, host of “The Daily.” michael schmidt Doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo. michael barbaro From The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today — Attorney General William Barr has sent a letter to Congress summarizing the findings of the special counsel investigation: No coordination with Russia. More complicated on obstruction of justice. My colleagues Maggie Haberman and Mike Schmidt explain. It’s Monday, March 25. O.K. Maggie, like, it is 6:00 p.m. on Sunday evening. Two hours ago, the attorney general, Bill Barr, sent a letter to congressional leaders outlining the major conclusions of the special counsel’s report. michael schmidt The report is broken into two parts. The first one is on the biggest, most central question that has surrounded the president since he was elected: What are the ties between his campaign and Russia? And on that issue, Barr is unequivocal. michael barbaro What does he say? michael schmidt He says there are no ties between what Russia did in the election and Trump’s campaign. That despite how aggressively the Russians tried to interfere in our election, and even outreach that they made to the campaign, they were able to find no evidence that they actually worked together. michael barbaro But Mike, help me understand this. In the lead-up to the report, the Mueller investigation issued a number of subpoenas and charges that felt like they revealed forms of collusion. I’m thinking about Papadopoulos, Manafort, a meeting inside Trump Tower that involved the president’s son and his son-in-law. Those all felt like forms of collusion. michael schmidt I think that what went on was that the Trump campaign was sort of collusion-curious in the sense that they were open to sort of talking to anyone about anything. And the Russians were reaching out right. And that meant that there were a lot of odd contacts that occurred. What I think Mueller and Barr are saying is that even though a lot of that stuff looks funky, we have no evidence that they linked hands and tried to work together to hurt Clinton. michael barbaro So collusion-curious does not equal coordination. maggie haberman No. Being interested in getting information is something that you have heard either the president say or people around the president say. You know, of course, we took these meetings. Of course when people reached out to us, we listened to them. Who wouldn’t? Their argument has been that they were just doing what anyone would do. And the other argument they’ve made repeatedly is that they were too discombobulated and too green and too new at this to even know how to collude. And as someone who covered that campaign, I can tell you there is some logic to that argument. michael barbaro As somebody who’s slightly more removed from the day to day of this investigation than either of you, it’s starting to feel from this summary from Bill Barr of the Mueller report that what the investigation found was what we all kind of knew the investigation found as it was finding. That there was nothing all that big being held back. And that helps us understand this conclusion. maggie haberman What we saw in indictments either of Paul Manafort, or of his deputy Rick Gates, who pleaded guilty, or of Mike Flynn or George Papadopoulos, this might have been, it seems, all there was. This was all the information that they were able to prove existed. michael barbaro Mike, what do you think of that? michael schmidt Let’s go back and look at the indictments and guilty pleas. George Papadopoulos, a campaign official who had contacts with individuals who said the Russians were going to be releasing information about Hillary Clinton’s emails before it came out. When George Papadopoulos pleads guilty, he does not plead guilty to conspiring with the Russians. He pleads guilty to making false statements to investigators about that contact. The president’s former national security adviser, Michael Flynn, has these odd phone calls with the Russian ambassador during the transition in which they discuss lifting sanctions that have just been imposed by the Obama administration for election meddling. When Mike Flynn goes into court to plead guilty, he doesn’t plead guilty to conspiring with the Russians. He pleads guilty to making false statements to the F.B.I. about it. So as we went along in the investigation over the past 22 months, we never saw charges that said that the campaign conspired with Russia. There was some question — was Mueller holding out something like that until the end? Was he going to wait and then make a move on it? Well, today, we know that they never found anything. michael barbaro Right. He wasn’t making those kinds of indictments because he didn’t have any evidence of it. maggie haberman Or at least he didn’t have enough to bring an indictment. I mean, he might have found strains of information, he might have found pieces along the way, but it clearly was not enough to bring a charge. michael barbaro So in the end, this was a bunch of people around the president lying, perhaps to avoid what might look like coordination if they were going to tell the truth, but not actually coordinating, according to the legal definition. michael schmidt Correct. michael barbaro And what about the second question in this letter, the question of obstruction of justice? What does Barr’s summary of the Mueller report say about that? michael schmidt So the obstruction part is not nearly as clean-cut as the collusion section. On obstruction, Barr essentially says that Mueller did not come to his own determination on whether the president obstructed justice. That Mueller could not indict or exonerate the president for that charge. But that left the door open for Barr to say, look, Mueller has not made a determination on this. I, as the attorney general, along with the deputy attorney general, Rod Rosenstein, will make that call. And we do not believe there is a case to be made the president obstructed justice. michael barbaro I don’t quite understand what’s going on here. Why do we think, Mike, that Mueller declined to weigh in on this question of obstruction of justice? Why leave it kind of up in the air? maggie haberman There’s not really a full explanation for that. And I’m not sure. For the past 22 months, Democrats and a lot of folks in the media have built Mueller up as sort of this paragon of justice, and someone who was willing and able to go out and make determinations and calls on really tough issues in non-partisan, follow-the-facts ways. And here, we have Mueller essentially saying, I don’t really have a determination on it. For each of the relevant actions, the letter says, that were investigated, the report sets out evidence on both sides of the question and leaves unresolved what the special counsel views as, quote, “difficult issues of law and fact concerning whether the president’s actions and intent could be viewed as obstruction.” The special counsel states that, quote, “while this report does not conclude the president committed a crime, it also does not exonerate him.” michael barbaro Let’s pick apart what I think we can all agree is the most salient example of this, where maybe disentangling motive and law and obstruction of justice is really tangled up. And that would be the firing of James Comey. The president at first says it’s not about Russia, then goes on television, says, it really is about Russia. And yet we all know that the president can pretty much fire anyone at that level if he wants to. Is that what Bill Barr, in summarizing Mueller, is saying? That this stuff is just really difficult, and so we’re not making a call? maggie haberman Mueller is saying this is really difficult, and it’s hard to get in the president’s head and know what his intent was and his frame of mind was. And he decides that he is not going to be the one to make that call. Bill Barr, not wanting, I think, to leave this as an open-ended thing puts a pin in it and says, this is done. michael barbaro And says, I will make that call. maggie haberman I will make that call. And we do not believe that this is sufficient to say that the president obstructed justice. And remember, obstruction of justice was key to Richard Nixon. This was a piece that the president’s folks were worried about. They had felt really confident the whole time that there would not be an evidence-based case of conspiracy related to Russia. But they were concerned about what it would find on the obstruction piece. michael schmidt Interestingly — and I still don’t think this issue has gotten enough attention — the central question here was the president’s intent when he took actions like firing Comey. But at the end of the day, the president of the United States never sat for an interview with investigators to answer those questions. So here you have the attorney general saying, this thing is done, but we’ve never heard from Donald Trump on it. And the reason we never heard from Donald Trump on it was that his lawyers were so afraid that if he sat down to answer questions, he would make a factually inaccurate statement and would increase his criminal exposure. michael barbaro And it’s within the president’s rights not to sit down for such an interview. michael schmidt That’s not true. The Justice Department could have subpoenaed him for an interview. michael barbaro But why didn’t they? michael schmidt One of the unanswered questions in this. But in an investigation where the central question was what was the president’s intent, Bob Mueller was never able to ask him that question. michael barbaro But he wasn’t able to ask him the question because he never issued a subpoena. He never pursued all legal avenues? maggie haberman We don’t know whether he pursued a legal avenue and was told that there wasn’t sufficient anything to go get a subpoena, or whether he just didn’t seek one. And that is, to me right now as we sit here, an open question. I don’t know whether Bob Mueller actually sought to go after this subpoena, which a lot of people thought that he would do. We’re not going to know for some time. michael schmidt But what we did learn on Friday when Barr first announced the end of the Mueller investigation was there was no instance in the investigation where Mueller wanted to take a major step, like indict someone, or subpoena them, or get a search warrant, in which he was told by his superiors at the Justice Department that he could not do that. So that would sort of bolster the argument that Mueller was not stopped by the Justice Department from seeking a subpoena to interview the president. He’s saying there were no instances in which Mueller was stopped from moving forward with something he wanted to do. michael barbaro No matter what, in this moment where so much of this second question of obstruction of justice comes down to the president’s motivation, which is essentially a matter of getting into someone’s head, never hearing from President Trump feels very significant. maggie haberman It’s a huge deal. Barr lays it out in this letter to Congress about what Mueller’s thinking was, where he describes that the report sets out evidence on both sides of the question. And I think what you have there is the president’s lawyers have repeatedly offered up explanations for why the president could have been doing something that were not necessarily nefarious or that were not undermining. And the main thing that they have said over and over is, this isn’t obstruction because it’s all playing out in public. It’s not hidden. He has a right to express his views as a citizen of the country. And I anticipate that should we ever see what is in this report, that is going to show up a lot. michael schmidt When Maggie and I would talk to Rudy Giuliani during the investigation — michael barbaro The president’s lawyer. michael schmidt He would say things like, obstruction of justice and trying to interfere in an investigation is going into a dark alley and threatening to break someone’s leg if they cooperate with investigators. It’s bribing someone to not testify. But what Giuliani said is that all this stuff is happening out in the open. He’s not trying to twist anyone’s arm. He’s just blowing off steam about the investigation. And what conspiracy is there in that? michael barbaro Were either of you surprised by either of these actions outlined in this letter when it comes to obstruction of justice — by Mueller declining to make a call, or by Barr being so quick to make a call? maggie haberman I was not surprised that Mueller didn’t make a call. I was surprised that Barr moved so quickly. I did not think that the collusion aspect of this letter was going to be revelatory, but I did think that the obstruction one possibly would be. And it shuts it down definitively. There is a piece of the letter that we haven’t talked about, which is that Bill Barr, the attorney general, tells Congress that Robert Mueller, the special counsel, recognized that, quote, “the evidence does not establish that the president was involved in an underlying crime related to Russian election interference. And that while not determinative, the absence of such evidence bears upon the president’s intent with respect to obstruction.” So a big piece of the thinking for Barr seems to have been that since there is not an underlying crime that was found related to the president, that obstruction is harder to prove. michael barbaro In other words, there is a connection between these two questions. Between coordination and obstruction of justice. That if there was no coordination, if there is no original sin, then it’s hard to establish that there was obstruction of justice. maggie haberman Right. If there is no crime that was committed, it is hard to suggest that the president was trying to obstruct justice in the course of pursuing evidence about that crime. And that is an argument that Mike and I also heard the president’s lawyers say repeatedly, which was that there couldn’t be obstruction of justice because there’s nothing to obstruct. michael barbaro Does that seem like universally sound legal logic? That you can’t commit a crime in obstructing investigations into something that wasn’t a crime? Because it certainly feels like if someone’s investigating me, and I decide to stop the investigation in violation of the law, that that could be itself a violation of a law, separate and apart from whether or not what I was being investigated for in the first place was a crime? I mean, are those two things necessarily connected? michael schmidt I think there’s two reasons why the Justice Department would not want to bring a case like this. The first is that if there’s not an underlying crime, then do you really want to bring an obstruction case? Do you really want to go to court to try and convince a jury that someone took actions where there was nothing to cover up? I think that’s a tough case to make. The second thing is that while the president huffed and puffed a lot about this investigation, I’m not sure how much real damage it did to it. Bob Mueller was able to pursue his inquiry. He was not fired. They finished what they had. They weren’t impeded by the Justice Department. So what was the real damage? If the president was obstructing, how did he really hurt the investigation? Give me the damage report. And I don’t think at the end of the day there was that much that actually hurt Mueller’s team’s ability to do their job. It may have been loud, it may have been annoying, it may have been dispiriting. But I think they were able to pursue what they needed to. maggie haberman I think, also, there’s a third point, which is that I think that Bob Mueller was very mindful that he was dealing with the presidency and the damage that an ongoing case like this, if it was iffy, and not locked solid, not completely nailed down, could cause not just the office of the presidency, but the kind of trauma that brings to a country. michael barbaro I’m very struck as we’re talking, Maggie and Mike, that, at least according to this letter, this is exactly what we have had in front of us all along. maggie haberman Unless the report has a lot of information that we’re not seeing, what we saw play out publicly is what was there. The attorney general made clear that this investigation was ending without a recommendation of more indictments. That includes sealed indictments. This is what we’re getting. It will now move to Capitol Hill, and Democrats will seek to get as much material as they can. But in terms of the part the president was really concerned about in terms of Mueller, that is over. michael barbaro So let’s talk about what Congress is going to do now. Congressional leaders have just received this letter. Mike, you have told us in the past that Democrats were going to be very cautious in how they proceeded under any circumstances. And that if Mueller didn’t find the sort of thing that would force even Republicans in Congress to acknowledge that the president had violated the law, impeachment proceedings would be very unlikely. And it seems like this letter is not at all what Democrats would have needed to move forward in that sort of way. michael schmidt I think it takes a lot of wind out of their sails. They basically have full-blown investigations into obstruction and collusion going on. And here, you have Mueller, someone who has far better tools than they will ever have to investigate, coming out and clearing the president on the Russia issue and giving a mixed message on obstruction that allows Barr to clear him there. It gives the Republicans a very good argument to say, why are you guys continuing to look at these issues? Why are you continuing to rummage around in the president’s life when we’ve received clarity on this from the Justice Department? So I think it hurts them. maggie haberman I think that you’re going to see Nancy Pelosi, the Democratic House speaker, proceed carefully. As of late evening Sunday, she still had not said anything about how she was going to handle this. And I think that you are going to see a lot of Republicans reminding Democrats that they were holding Robert Mueller up as this avatar of credibility when the investigation was going on, so that it is hard to now say, we need to know more, because we need to make a determination that he couldn’t. That will almost inevitably look very political. michael schmidt So the Democrats are going to ask for everything that Mueller had in the report. And it’s clear from the letter that a lot of obstruction of justice issues were looked at and detailed and analyzed. And the question is that if the Democrats get their hands on that, how damaging is the obstruction stuff? And is it strong enough to give Democrats more of an oomph on their obstruction investigation? michael barbaro Is it both of your understandings that Congress will get a full copy of the Mueller report that they can then examine for these answers? maggie haberman I don’t think that’s been resolved yet. michael schmidt That’s the big question. michael barbaro Maggie, after months of the president calling the Mueller investigation a witch hunt or worse, would it be better now for him to lean into that description or turn around and say, you know, this investigation is the gold star of investigations, and it says I’m in the clear? maggie haberman There are a lot of people in the White House who are encouraging the president to turn and say, this was a highly respected prosecutor who just said there was no collusion. And I hope we can all accept this and move on, and try to strike a healing note. It is the president’s political instinct to burrow into his base and say, this was a witch hunt, this was a hoax. And that is what I have heard a number of his advisers say publicly in the last few hours. It’s what his son said in a statement that he gave me. I think they are going to go full-on by telling people this was a waste of two years. This was an effort to undo an electoral result in 2016, and don’t let this happen again. michael barbaro And I wonder if you can explain for listeners why it wasn’t what you just said the president might call it — a waste of two years. A waste of everyone’s time and an effort to politically undermine him. maggie haberman It might have had the effect of undermining him. That might have been one of the impacts. But we do know, based on numerous assessments from the intelligence community, that Russians did seek to interfere in the 2016 election. We do know that there were many contacts between Russians and people involved in the Trump campaign. So trying to find out what was at the heart of that, one would think, was not a waste of time. And now there is an answer. There is a world in which the president could say, this gave me a clean bill of health, and now you can trust me going forward. michael barbaro Mike, I want to ask you the same question. What is your explanation for why this investigation was not a waste of time? michael schmidt Well, there were legitimate issues and questions that had to be answered. And along the way, the president took action after action that only made the perception that he did something wrong worse. He fired the F.B.I. director. He asked the F.B.I. director to end an investigation into whether his former national security adviser was talking improperly to the Russian ambassador. He said things publicly about the investigation time and time again to demonize the investigators. He criticized his own attorney general, who recused himself from the Russia investigation. He called Mueller’s team a bunch of angry Democrats. He made the perception worse. And there were things that he did that walked up to the line of obstruction and had to be looked at, that had to be sorted through. Whether it was to clear the president and say, hey, look, he did nothing wrong, for his sake, or to give the public some confidence that the president of the United States was not a Russian agent. michael barbaro So among the questions that had to be answered in an investigation into Russian interference in our election, regardless of the answer, was what was the president’s role in this? And it happens to be that the answer was seemingly nothing illegal. But that answer had to be unearthed. michael schmidt A significant portion of the country thought that the president of the United States either wittingly or unwittingly had worked with a foreign adversary to influence the election. That was something that had to be looked into. michael barbaro And because he didn’t do that, Bill Barr also believes he did not obstruct this investigation. michael schmidt There was nothing to obstruct. maggie haberman At least that’s what they found. michael barbaro No one asked me, but — maggie haberman Michael, what do you think? michael barbaro I think that Russia could never have fathomed just how cosmically disruptive their efforts to influence the election would be. maggie haberman I think they succeeded beyond their wildest dreams, yes. michael schmidt Look at how distracted we’ve been as a country because of this for the past two years. Think about all the other issues that we could have been talking about or looking at. This was an enormous, enormous distraction for the country. maggie haberman And for Donald Trump. michael barbaro Maggie, Mike, thank you very much. maggie haberman Thank you. michael schmidt Thanks for having us. archived recording (donald trump) So after a long look, after a long investigation, after so many people have been so badly hurt, after not looking at the other side, where a lot of bad things happened, a lot of horrible things happened, a lot of very bad things happened for our country, it was just announced there was no collusion with Russia. The most ridiculous thing I’ve ever heard — michael barbaro On Sunday afternoon, on his way back to Washington from his home in Florida, President Trump addressed the major findings of the Mueller report. archived recording (donald trump) There was no obstruction, and none whatsoever. And it was a complete and total exoneration. It’s a shame that our country had to go through this. To be honest, it’s a shame that your president has had to go through this for — before I even got elected, it began. And it began illegally. And hopefully, somebody is going to look at the other side. This was an illegal takedown that failed. And hopefully, somebody is going to be looking at the other side. So it’s complete — michael barbaro Not long after, the Democratic chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, Representative Jerry Nadler of New York, disputed the president’s characterization of the Mueller report during a news conference in New York. archived recording (jerry nadler) Earlier today, I received a four-page letter from Attorney General Barr outlining his summary of Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s report while making a few questionable legal arguments of his own. I take from this letter three points. First, President Trump is wrong. This report does not amount to a so-called “total exoneration.” michael barbaro Nadler seemed to accept Mueller’s conclusion that the president did not coordinate with Russia, but seized on less definitive statements made by Mueller and Barr about whether the president obstructed justice. archived recording (jerry nadler) The attorney general’s comments make it clear that Congress must step in to get the truth and provide full transparency to the American people. The president has not been exonerated by the special counsel. Yet the attorney general has decided not to go further or, apparently, to share those findings with the public. We cannot simply rely on what may be a hasty partisan interpretation of the facts. michael barbaro That’s it for “The Daily.” I’m Michael Barbaro. See you tomorrow. The outcome was a victory for Mr. Trump’s lawyers, who initially pushed the president to cooperate with the investigation but later kept him from sitting down to talk with Mr. Mueller’s investigators about what he had been thinking when he took steps that potentially affected the inquiry. All that the public — or Congress — knows at this point about Mr. Mueller’s findings consists of how Mr. Barr portrayed them in a four-page letter he sent to lawmakers on Sunday. Mr. Mueller cataloged numerous actions by Mr. Trump, Mr. Barr wrote — he did not specify but said most were publicly known — and that the special counsel report presented evidence both for and against concluding that Mr. Trump had broken the law. But in an unusual move Mr. Barr did not explain, Mr. Mueller left that question unresolved, instead stating that “while this report does not conclude that the president committed a crime, it also does not exonerate him,” according to a brief excerpt from the special counsel report that Mr. Barr quoted. With Mr. Rosenstein’s concurrence, Mr. Barr embraced that opening to declare the president broke no law. “The special counsel’s decision to describe the facts of his obstruction investigation without reaching any legal conclusions leaves it to the attorney general to determine whether the conduct described in the report constitutes a crime,” Mr. Barr wrote, adding that he and his deputy “concluded that the evidence developed during the special counsel’s investigation is not sufficient to establish that the president committed an obstruction-of-justice offense.” Mr. Barr wrote that his decision that Mr. Trump violated no criminal obstruction-of-justice laws was not based on the Justice Department’s view that the Constitution does not permit a sitting president to be indicted. If he had relied on that theory, it would have left Mr. Trump vulnerable to potential indictment after he left office. But Mr. Barr appeared to make implicit reference to other disputed constitutional arguments about presidential power, and whether obstruction laws could be legitimately applied to constrain certain actions by a president. Without spelling them out, Mr. Barr quoted the special counsel report as referring to “‘difficult issues’ of law and fact concerning whether the president’s actions and intent could be viewed as obstruction.” Notably, Mr. Trump’s lawyers have taken the position that Congress lacks the authority to constrain in any way how the president exercises his constitutional powers to oversee the executive branch, including deciding whether to direct the Justice Department to close an investigation, to fire a subordinate and to pardon someone. Mr. Barr himself endorsed that view in his June 2018 memo for the Trump administration, when he was still a lawyer in private practice. Under that view, even if a president abuses his power by acting for corrupt reasons, it would be unconstitutional for Congress to make that a crime. Many legal scholars dispute that view, but the Supreme Court has never addressed the issue. It was hard to know from Mr. Barr’s letter what gave Mr. Mueller pause, noted Samuel Buell, a former federal prosecutor who now teaches white-collar criminal law at Duke University. Without seeing Mr. Mueller’s underlying report, he said, it was impossible to evaluate the merits of both Mr. Mueller’s demurral and Mr. Barr’s decision to make a definitive statement in favor of Mr. Trump. “We really need to see what this report says — we need to see the analysis,” he said, adding: “How much of this is Mueller and how much of this is Barr? And certainly it seems a relevant fact to consider that Barr just happens to be someone who, before he became attorney general, had gone on record as someone who was skeptical of the obstruction issue.” Mr. Mueller’s refusal to make any conclusion about obstruction was coupled with a more definitive finding that “the evidence does not establish that the president was involved in an underlying crime related to Russian election interference.” While acknowledging one can be guilty of obstruction of justice even without an underlying crime, Mr. Barr wrote that he and Mr. Rosenstein nevertheless took into account that separate exoneration of Mr. Trump when deciding how to interpret Mr. Trump’s intent with respect to obstruction in the evidence Mr. Mueller had gathered. Obstruction cases are notoriously difficult to prove beyond a reasonable doubt because prosecutors have to prove that the defendant was acting with a corrupt intent, and the evidence is often ambiguous. Essentially, he wrote, that meant Mr. Trump must get the benefit of the doubt: Mr. Mueller’s report, he wrote, “identifies no actions that, in our judgment,” could be proven in court as an obstruction crime. David Kris, who ran the Justice Department’s national security division and now heads the consulting firm Culper Partners, said he was struck by the fact that Mr. Mueller failed to reach a conclusion on whether to prosecute Mr. Trump after nearly two years of work, but Mr. Barr, with Mr. Rosenstein’s help, decided in a single weekend. “It is very unusual to punt on that kind of decision,” he said of Mr. Mueller. “When we read that report and walked a mile in his shoes, we may be able to assess what he did and why he did it. But I confess that I did find it surprising.” Sharon LaFraniere contributed reporting.    Supported by By Reuters CLEARWATER, Florida/LAS VEGAS — After months as volunteer activists demanding that U.S. President Donald Trump be impeached, Eileen and Michael O'Brien sat on their couch on Thursday, cracked open a laptop and began to read the 448-page special counsel report that liberals have dreamed would make impeachment a reality. "Hmm, seems like there's a lot of gray area here," said Eileen O’Brien, 65, of Clearwater, Florida, reading aloud a line about the findings falling short of a criminal case. "Legally wrong and morally wrong are two different things." The release of the long-anticipated report by Special Counsel Robert Mueller on his inquiry into Russia's role in the 2016 election landed in a stridently divided America: one side convinced Trump acted improperly, the other adamant that the investigation was a politically driven farce. Mueller built an extensive case that Trump committed obstruction of justice but stopped short of concluding he had committed a crime, though he did not exonerate the president. For those like the O'Briens who have been pining for impeachment, the report renewed resolve to oust the president. For those who want to see the president reelected, there was a sense of vindication. “The White House is going to put out their own version of things, which is basically fish wrapper,” said Michael O’Brien, formerly a service technician who now works on houses. His wife, who a day earlier delivered a can of "impeaches" peaches to a lawmaker, looked up with a quizzical expression.  "It’s worthless," he explained. "You can use it to wrap fish." "ONE BATTLE IN A WAR" Lee Mueller and his wife, Michele Mueller, no relation to Robert Mueller, also paused their Thursday to read through the special counsel's report. They printed out the table of contents for both volumes along with the executive summaries. "I view the Mueller report as being one battle in a war against the United States of America's founding principles and against Donald Trump," Michele Mueller, 61, said in a suburb of Las Vegas.  After Attorney General William Barr released his four-page summary of the Mueller report late last month, Americans were dug in on their views.  So far, the full report does not appear to have convinced many to change their opinions about the president’s conduct. A Reuters/Ipsos public opinion poll conducted Thursday afternoon to Friday morning found among those respondents of who said they were familiar with the Mueller report, 70 percent said the report had not changed their view of Trump or Russia’s involvement in the U.S. presidential race. Only 15 percent said they had learned something that changed their view of Trump or the Russia investigation, and a majority of those respondents said they were now more likely to believe that “Trump or someone close to him broke the law.” Trump's approval ratings, however, dipped 3 percentage points after the release of the report, the poll found. Ahead of Thursday's release of the Mueller report, Trump ramped up his insistence that he was the victim, not the perpetrator, of crimes. James Stratton, 65, of Clearwater, Florida, caught snippets of the news about the report from conservative commentators Rush Limbaugh and Sean Hannity. He looked up Barr’s news conference, held Thursday morning before the report was released online, on YouTube. “Nobody on our side is going to change,” the Republican president of the local Tampa Bay Trump Club said in a phone interview, adding that liberals will grow tired of hearing predictions about Trump’s downfall that never materialize. “We stay focused on the issues. How do we stop socialism? How do we protect our borders?” "IT WILL ONLY AFFIRM" For the most invested, though, Mueller's report offered hope for further investigation, but by Democrats in Congress this time. Tom Steyer, a billionaire activist who has spent millions of his own dollars directing pressure at Congress to impeach Trump, said while he thinks the contents of the report implicate the president, he acknowledges the findings alone are unlikely to convince Americans to change their minds. "I think the only way to get voters to notice is to directly publicize, televised hearings," Steyer said. "We're all for public hearings so the American people can see and can react themselves."  In Florida, Margo Hammond, 69, who considers herself an independent voter, gleaned highlights by toggling through the coverage of MSNBC, CNN and Fox News. She was unimpressed with Barr.  “It's kind of an insult to the American people that we can’t decide for ourselves,” she said while in an art class. She planned to read as much as she could of the report. “I think it will only affirm what I originally thought,” she said. Then she repeated something she had heard earlier from a news commentator: “There was a whole lot of cheating going on.” (For a 'Link to Mueller report' click https://graphics.reuters.com/USA-TRUMP-RUSSIA/010091HX27V/report.pdf)  (For a graphic on 'A closer look at Mueller report redactions' click https://tmsnrt.rs/2VSx7HZ)  (Reporting by Letitia Stein in Clearwater, Florida and Tim Reid in Las Vegas; Writing by Ginger Gibson; Editing by Leslie Adler and Marguerita Choy)

Supported by By Reuters CLEARWATER, Florida/LAS VEGAS — After months as volunteer activists demanding that U.S. President Donald Trump be impeached, Eileen and Michael O'Brien sat on their couch on Thursday, cracked open a laptop and began to read the 448-page special counsel report that liberals have dreamed would make impeachment a reality. "Hmm, seems like there's a lot of gray area here," said Eileen O’Brien, 65, of Clearwater, Florida, reading aloud a line about the findings falling short of a criminal case. "Legally wrong and morally wrong are two different things." The release of the long-anticipated report by Special Counsel Robert Mueller on his inquiry into Russia's role in the 2016 election landed in a stridently divided America: one side convinced Trump acted improperly, the other adamant that the investigation was a politically driven farce. Mueller built an extensive case that Trump committed obstruction of justice but stopped short of concluding he had committed a crime, though he did not exonerate the president. For those like the O'Briens who have been pining for impeachment, the report renewed resolve to oust the president. For those who want to see the president reelected, there was a sense of vindication. “The White House is going to put out their own version of things, which is basically fish wrapper,” said Michael O’Brien, formerly a service technician who now works on houses. His wife, who a day earlier delivered a can of "impeaches" peaches to a lawmaker, looked up with a quizzical expression.  "It’s worthless," he explained. "You can use it to wrap fish." "ONE BATTLE IN A WAR" Lee Mueller and his wife, Michele Mueller, no relation to Robert Mueller, also paused their Thursday to read through the special counsel's report. They printed out the table of contents for both volumes along with the executive summaries. "I view the Mueller report as being one battle in a war against the United States of America's founding principles and against Donald Trump," Michele Mueller, 61, said in a suburb of Las Vegas.  After Attorney General William Barr released his four-page summary of the Mueller report late last month, Americans were dug in on their views.  So far, the full report does not appear to have convinced many to change their opinions about the president’s conduct. A Reuters/Ipsos public opinion poll conducted Thursday afternoon to Friday morning found among those respondents of who said they were familiar with the Mueller report, 70 percent said the report had not changed their view of Trump or Russia’s involvement in the U.S. presidential race. Only 15 percent said they had learned something that changed their view of Trump or the Russia investigation, and a majority of those respondents said they were now more likely to believe that “Trump or someone close to him broke the law.” Trump's approval ratings, however, dipped 3 percentage points after the release of the report, the poll found. Ahead of Thursday's release of the Mueller report, Trump ramped up his insistence that he was the victim, not the perpetrator, of crimes. James Stratton, 65, of Clearwater, Florida, caught snippets of the news about the report from conservative commentators Rush Limbaugh and Sean Hannity. He looked up Barr’s news conference, held Thursday morning before the report was released online, on YouTube. “Nobody on our side is going to change,” the Republican president of the local Tampa Bay Trump Club said in a phone interview, adding that liberals will grow tired of hearing predictions about Trump’s downfall that never materialize. “We stay focused on the issues. How do we stop socialism? How do we protect our borders?” "IT WILL ONLY AFFIRM" For the most invested, though, Mueller's report offered hope for further investigation, but by Democrats in Congress this time. Tom Steyer, a billionaire activist who has spent millions of his own dollars directing pressure at Congress to impeach Trump, said while he thinks the contents of the report implicate the president, he acknowledges the findings alone are unlikely to convince Americans to change their minds. "I think the only way to get voters to notice is to directly publicize, televised hearings," Steyer said. "We're all for public hearings so the American people can see and can react themselves."  In Florida, Margo Hammond, 69, who considers herself an independent voter, gleaned highlights by toggling through the coverage of MSNBC, CNN and Fox News. She was unimpressed with Barr.  “It's kind of an insult to the American people that we can’t decide for ourselves,” she said while in an art class. She planned to read as much as she could of the report. “I think it will only affirm what I originally thought,” she said. Then she repeated something she had heard earlier from a news commentator: “There was a whole lot of cheating going on.” (For a 'Link to Mueller report' click https://graphics.reuters.com/USA-TRUMP-RUSSIA/010091HX27V/report.pdf)  (For a graphic on 'A closer look at Mueller report redactions' click https://tmsnrt.rs/2VSx7HZ)  (Reporting by Letitia Stein in Clearwater, Florida and Tim Reid in Las Vegas; Writing by Ginger Gibson; Editing by Leslie Adler and Marguerita Choy)Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — Attorney General William Barr plans on Thursday morning to release a redacted version of Special Counsel Robert Mueller's report on Russian interference in the 2016 U.S. election and contacts between Moscow and President Donald Trump's campaign, the Justice Department said on Monday. Department spokeswoman Kerri Kupec did not provide a precise time, but said the report, which Barr has described as nearly 400 pages long, will be released both to Congress and the public. Congressional Democrats have demanded the release of the full report with nothing blacked out and also have asked for the underlying evidence gathered by Mueller, meaning Thursday's action by Barr may be just the first move in a longer fight that could play out in the courts. Moments after the department announced its plans for releasing the report, the Republican president went to Twitter to make another attack on Mueller's team and derided the "Russia Hoax." The Mueller investigation has cast a cloud over the presidency of Trump, who has often called it a politically motivated "witch hunt." Mueller turned over a copy of his confidential report to Barr on March 22, ending his 22-month-long inquiry. Two days later, Barr released a four-page letter summarizing what he said were Mueller's primary conclusions. In that letter to Congress, Barr said Mueller's investigation did not establish that members of Trump's election campaign conspired with Russia.  Barr also wrote that Mueller presented evidence "on both sides" about whether Trump obstructed justice by acting to impede the inquiry, but he did not draw a conclusion one way or the other. Barr said that he reviewed Mueller's evidence and made his own determination that Trump did not commit the crime of obstruction of justice. REDACTION DECISIONS Justice Department regulations give Barr, a Trump appointee and the top U.S. law enforcement officer, broad authority to decide what to release and what to withhold from the report.  Barr has pledged to be as transparent as possible. But he has said he will redact certain portions for reasons including protecting secret grand jury information, intelligence-gathering sources and methods, information relating to ongoing cases and the privacy of "peripheral third parties" who were not charged. The redactions in the report will be colour-coded by category, according to Barr, explaining the reasons that parts are blacked out. After Barr released his four-page letter, Trump claimed "complete and total exoneration," condemned "an illegal takedown that failed" and accused unnamed political enemies of treasonous acts. Since Barr released his letter, Trump has set his sights on the FBI, and accused the Justice Department of improperly targeting his campaign. Last week, Barr told a U.S. Senate panel he believed that "spying" did occur on Trump's campaign, and he plans to investigate whether it was properly authorized. Barr's comments were criticized by Democrats, already sceptical of how he has handled the report's release. The attorney general has pledged to testify publicly about the report's conclusions before the Senate and House judiciary committees - on May 1 and 2, respectively. The Democratic-led House Judiciary Committee voted on April 3 to empower its chairman, Jerrold Nadler, to issue subpoenas for the full report and underlying evidence. Meanwhile, the top Democrat and Republican on the House Intelligence Committee are also asking Barr to produce all of the investigative materials compiled by Mueller's team and to make Mueller and his staff available for a briefing. In a March 27 letter seen by Reuters on Monday, Democratic Chairman Adam Schiff and top Republican Devin Nunes told Barr they want Mueller to brief them on "the investigation's scope and areas of inquiry, its findings, and the intelligence and counterintelligence information gathered" in the investigation.  (Reporting by Sarah N. Lynch and Doina Chiacu; Additional reporting by Mark Hosenball; Editing by Will Dunham)

Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — Attorney General William Barr plans on Thursday morning to release a redacted version of Special Counsel Robert Mueller's report on Russian interference in the 2016 U.S. election and contacts between Moscow and President Donald Trump's campaign, the Justice Department said on Monday. Department spokeswoman Kerri Kupec did not provide a precise time, but said the report, which Barr has described as nearly 400 pages long, will be released both to Congress and the public. Congressional Democrats have demanded the release of the full report with nothing blacked out and also have asked for the underlying evidence gathered by Mueller, meaning Thursday's action by Barr may be just the first move in a longer fight that could play out in the courts. Moments after the department announced its plans for releasing the report, the Republican president went to Twitter to make another attack on Mueller's team and derided the "Russia Hoax." The Mueller investigation has cast a cloud over the presidency of Trump, who has often called it a politically motivated "witch hunt." Mueller turned over a copy of his confidential report to Barr on March 22, ending his 22-month-long inquiry. Two days later, Barr released a four-page letter summarizing what he said were Mueller's primary conclusions. In that letter to Congress, Barr said Mueller's investigation did not establish that members of Trump's election campaign conspired with Russia.  Barr also wrote that Mueller presented evidence "on both sides" about whether Trump obstructed justice by acting to impede the inquiry, but he did not draw a conclusion one way or the other. Barr said that he reviewed Mueller's evidence and made his own determination that Trump did not commit the crime of obstruction of justice. REDACTION DECISIONS Justice Department regulations give Barr, a Trump appointee and the top U.S. law enforcement officer, broad authority to decide what to release and what to withhold from the report.  Barr has pledged to be as transparent as possible. But he has said he will redact certain portions for reasons including protecting secret grand jury information, intelligence-gathering sources and methods, information relating to ongoing cases and the privacy of "peripheral third parties" who were not charged. The redactions in the report will be colour-coded by category, according to Barr, explaining the reasons that parts are blacked out. After Barr released his four-page letter, Trump claimed "complete and total exoneration," condemned "an illegal takedown that failed" and accused unnamed political enemies of treasonous acts. Since Barr released his letter, Trump has set his sights on the FBI, and accused the Justice Department of improperly targeting his campaign. Last week, Barr told a U.S. Senate panel he believed that "spying" did occur on Trump's campaign, and he plans to investigate whether it was properly authorized. Barr's comments were criticized by Democrats, already sceptical of how he has handled the report's release. The attorney general has pledged to testify publicly about the report's conclusions before the Senate and House judiciary committees - on May 1 and 2, respectively. The Democratic-led House Judiciary Committee voted on April 3 to empower its chairman, Jerrold Nadler, to issue subpoenas for the full report and underlying evidence. Meanwhile, the top Democrat and Republican on the House Intelligence Committee are also asking Barr to produce all of the investigative materials compiled by Mueller's team and to make Mueller and his staff available for a briefing. In a March 27 letter seen by Reuters on Monday, Democratic Chairman Adam Schiff and top Republican Devin Nunes told Barr they want Mueller to brief them on "the investigation's scope and areas of inquiry, its findings, and the intelligence and counterintelligence information gathered" in the investigation.  (Reporting by Sarah N. Lynch and Doina Chiacu; Additional reporting by Mark Hosenball; Editing by Will Dunham)Supported by By Reuters NEW YORK/WASHINGTON — As recently as February, Special Counsel Robert Mueller's team dropped hints that the inquiry into Russia's role in the 2016 U.S. election might unearth evidence of active cooperation between Moscow and President Donald Trump's campaign. That turned out not to be the case, according to Attorney General William Barr, who has said he hopes to release Mueller's nearly 400 page report this week. Barr told U.S. lawmakers on March 24 that the special counsel investigation "did not establish that members of the Trump campaign conspired or coordinated with the Russian government in its election interference activities." To be sure, the investigation documented numerous contacts between Trump campaign figures and Russia, a willingness on the part of the campaign to accept help from Moscow, and no indication that the campaign told the Kremlin to keep out of an American presidential race. No criminal conspiracy was documented, according to Barr. But court statements by members of Mueller's team and evidence disclosed in various prosecutions by the special counsel had suggested on several occasions during the 22-month investigation that they were investigating a possible conspiracy. Frank Montoya, a former senior FBI official with extensive experience in counterintelligence investigations, said the words "did not establish" are commonly used in national security cases as language merely ruling out a chargeable offense. "It doesn't mean a subject is innocent. It means investigators didn't find enough evidence to charge a crime," Montoya said. A recent indication that the special counsel was investigating a Trump-Russia conspiracy came on Feb. 4 during a closed-door court hearing in Washington. Prosecutor Andrew Weissmann said Mueller was still investigating interactions between former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort and his Russian business partner Konstantin Kilimnik as critical to the inquiry. "This goes to the larger view of what we think is going on, and what we think the motive here is," Weissmann said, according to a transcript released days later. "This goes, I think, very much to the heart of what the Special Counsel's Office is investigating." Mueller's team said Manafort shared political polling data from the campaign with Kilimnik, who the special counsel has said had ties to Russian intelligence. The two also discussed proposals for a Ukrainian client to solve the Crimea conflict in a Kremlin-friendly way, Mueller said. Three weeks after Weissmann made his comments, Mueller's office backtracked. It said in a court filing it needed to correct its assertions about Manafort's interactions with Kilimnik. Partially redacted court filings indicated the correction may relate to the polling data. When Mueller's report is released - with parts blacked out by Barr to protect certain sensitive information - it is unclear how harsh a light it will shine on the contacts between Trump campaign figures and Russians. Those making contacts included the president's son Donald Trump Jr., son-in-law Jared Kushner, former Trump lawyer Michael Cohen and campaign figures Manafort, Jeff Sessions, Michael Flynn and George Papadopoulos. Mueller and U.S. intelligence agencies have concluded Russia employed hacking and propaganda to sow division in the United States, harm Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton and boost Trump's candidacy. Moscow has denied election interference.  A key event in the question of conspiracy was a June 2016 meeting at Trump Tower in New York in which Manafort, Kushner and Trump Jr. met with Kremlin-connected lawyer Natalia Veselnitskaya, who had offered damaging information about Clinton. After being promised "dirt" on Clinton, Trump Jr. wrote in an email, "I love it." Alan Futerfas, a lawyer for Trump Jr., declined to comment. Mueller charged 34 people and three Russian entities. He convicted or secured guilty pleas from Trump aides including Manafort, Flynn, Cohen and Papadopoulos, and charged Russian intelligence officers and a Russian "troll farm." Another avenue related to potential conspiracy was Mueller's pursuit of longtime Trump political adviser Roger Stone, who had suggested he had a relationship with the WikiLeaks website and advance knowledge of its release of Democratic emails the special counsel said were stolen by Russians to hurt Clinton. But when Mueller indicted Stone in January, the seven criminal counts did not refer to conspiring with Russians and there was no allegation of close ties to WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange, who separately was charged with conspiracy to commit computer intrusion related to a 2010 hack of U.S. government computers. Mueller questioned more than a half dozen Stone associates to establish if he had acted as a go-between for the campaign with WikiLeaks. Two Stone associates who spoke to Reuters said Stone had struggled to make contact with Assange rather than having an inside track. Randy Credico, a New York comedian associated with Stone who appeared before Mueller's grand jury, is a case in point. Text messages between Stone and Credico seen by Reuters show Stone sought to use the comedian as an intermediary with Assange and urged Credico to feed WikiLeaks anti-Clinton research. Credico told Reuters he never made good on the request. Stone, who has been ordered by a judge not to talk about the case, is declining comment on the investigation. Mueller's investigation was aided by witnesses including Flynn, the former national security adviser who pleaded guilty in December 2017 to lying about his communications with Russian ambassador Sergei Kislyak in 2016, and Samuel Patten, a political consultant and former Kilimnik business partner sentenced to probation on Friday after prosecutors credited him for assisting Mueller and other probes. It is unclear to what extent Mueller's inability to secure cooperation from others impeded him. A spokesman for Mueller declined to comment. A judge found that Manafort, after agreeing to cooperate, repeatedly lied to prosecutors about interactions with Kilimnik and other matters, breaching a plea deal. Kilimnik, charged along with Manafort with conspiring to tamper with witnesses, was believed to be in Russia, out of reach. There also are witnesses like Papadopoulos, the first former Trump aide charged by Mueller who initially cooperated but became increasingly critical of the special counsel, especially after completing a two-week prison term in December.  (Reporting by Nathan Layne and Mark Hosenball; Editing by Will Dunham and Daniel Wallis)

Supported by By Reuters NEW YORK/WASHINGTON — As recently as February, Special Counsel Robert Mueller's team dropped hints that the inquiry into Russia's role in the 2016 U.S. election might unearth evidence of active cooperation between Moscow and President Donald Trump's campaign. That turned out not to be the case, according to Attorney General William Barr, who has said he hopes to release Mueller's nearly 400 page report this week. Barr told U.S. lawmakers on March 24 that the special counsel investigation "did not establish that members of the Trump campaign conspired or coordinated with the Russian government in its election interference activities." To be sure, the investigation documented numerous contacts between Trump campaign figures and Russia, a willingness on the part of the campaign to accept help from Moscow, and no indication that the campaign told the Kremlin to keep out of an American presidential race. No criminal conspiracy was documented, according to Barr. But court statements by members of Mueller's team and evidence disclosed in various prosecutions by the special counsel had suggested on several occasions during the 22-month investigation that they were investigating a possible conspiracy. Frank Montoya, a former senior FBI official with extensive experience in counterintelligence investigations, said the words "did not establish" are commonly used in national security cases as language merely ruling out a chargeable offense. "It doesn't mean a subject is innocent. It means investigators didn't find enough evidence to charge a crime," Montoya said. A recent indication that the special counsel was investigating a Trump-Russia conspiracy came on Feb. 4 during a closed-door court hearing in Washington. Prosecutor Andrew Weissmann said Mueller was still investigating interactions between former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort and his Russian business partner Konstantin Kilimnik as critical to the inquiry. "This goes to the larger view of what we think is going on, and what we think the motive here is," Weissmann said, according to a transcript released days later. "This goes, I think, very much to the heart of what the Special Counsel's Office is investigating." Mueller's team said Manafort shared political polling data from the campaign with Kilimnik, who the special counsel has said had ties to Russian intelligence. The two also discussed proposals for a Ukrainian client to solve the Crimea conflict in a Kremlin-friendly way, Mueller said. Three weeks after Weissmann made his comments, Mueller's office backtracked. It said in a court filing it needed to correct its assertions about Manafort's interactions with Kilimnik. Partially redacted court filings indicated the correction may relate to the polling data. When Mueller's report is released - with parts blacked out by Barr to protect certain sensitive information - it is unclear how harsh a light it will shine on the contacts between Trump campaign figures and Russians. Those making contacts included the president's son Donald Trump Jr., son-in-law Jared Kushner, former Trump lawyer Michael Cohen and campaign figures Manafort, Jeff Sessions, Michael Flynn and George Papadopoulos. Mueller and U.S. intelligence agencies have concluded Russia employed hacking and propaganda to sow division in the United States, harm Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton and boost Trump's candidacy. Moscow has denied election interference.  A key event in the question of conspiracy was a June 2016 meeting at Trump Tower in New York in which Manafort, Kushner and Trump Jr. met with Kremlin-connected lawyer Natalia Veselnitskaya, who had offered damaging information about Clinton. After being promised "dirt" on Clinton, Trump Jr. wrote in an email, "I love it." Alan Futerfas, a lawyer for Trump Jr., declined to comment. Mueller charged 34 people and three Russian entities. He convicted or secured guilty pleas from Trump aides including Manafort, Flynn, Cohen and Papadopoulos, and charged Russian intelligence officers and a Russian "troll farm." Another avenue related to potential conspiracy was Mueller's pursuit of longtime Trump political adviser Roger Stone, who had suggested he had a relationship with the WikiLeaks website and advance knowledge of its release of Democratic emails the special counsel said were stolen by Russians to hurt Clinton. But when Mueller indicted Stone in January, the seven criminal counts did not refer to conspiring with Russians and there was no allegation of close ties to WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange, who separately was charged with conspiracy to commit computer intrusion related to a 2010 hack of U.S. government computers. Mueller questioned more than a half dozen Stone associates to establish if he had acted as a go-between for the campaign with WikiLeaks. Two Stone associates who spoke to Reuters said Stone had struggled to make contact with Assange rather than having an inside track. Randy Credico, a New York comedian associated with Stone who appeared before Mueller's grand jury, is a case in point. Text messages between Stone and Credico seen by Reuters show Stone sought to use the comedian as an intermediary with Assange and urged Credico to feed WikiLeaks anti-Clinton research. Credico told Reuters he never made good on the request. Stone, who has been ordered by a judge not to talk about the case, is declining comment on the investigation. Mueller's investigation was aided by witnesses including Flynn, the former national security adviser who pleaded guilty in December 2017 to lying about his communications with Russian ambassador Sergei Kislyak in 2016, and Samuel Patten, a political consultant and former Kilimnik business partner sentenced to probation on Friday after prosecutors credited him for assisting Mueller and other probes. It is unclear to what extent Mueller's inability to secure cooperation from others impeded him. A spokesman for Mueller declined to comment. A judge found that Manafort, after agreeing to cooperate, repeatedly lied to prosecutors about interactions with Kilimnik and other matters, breaching a plea deal. Kilimnik, charged along with Manafort with conspiring to tamper with witnesses, was believed to be in Russia, out of reach. There also are witnesses like Papadopoulos, the first former Trump aide charged by Mueller who initially cooperated but became increasingly critical of the special counsel, especially after completing a two-week prison term in December.  (Reporting by Nathan Layne and Mark Hosenball; Editing by Will Dunham and Daniel Wallis)Supported by By Reuters (Reuters) - Attorney General William Barr has provided only a glimpse of Special Counsel Robert Mueller's report on the inquiry into Russia's role in the 2016 U.S. election, with many details expected to emerge when the document is finally released. Barr on March 24 sent a four-page letter to lawmakers detailing Mueller's "principal conclusions" including that the 22-month probe did not establish that President Donald Trump's 2016 campaign team conspired with Russia. Barr said he found insufficient evidence in Mueller's report to conclude that Trump committed obstruction of justice, though the special counsel did not make a formal finding one way or the other on that. The attorney general told Congress he hopes to release the nearly 400-page report this week, with portions blacked out to protect certain types of sensitive information. Here are five things to look for when the report is issued. OBSTRUCTION OF JUSTICE: WHY NO EXONERATION? Perhaps the biggest political risk for Trump is the special counsel's supporting evidence behind Mueller's assertion that while the report does not conclude the Republican president committed the crime of obstruction of justice it "also does not exonerate him" on that point. According to Barr's March 24 letter, Mueller has presented evidence on both sides of the question without concluding whether to prosecute. Barr filled that void by asserting there was no prosecutable case. But Barr's statement in the letter that "most" of Trump's actions that had raised questions about obstruction were "the subject of public reporting" suggested that some actions were not publicly known. Democrats in Congress do not believe Barr, a Trump appointee, should have the final say on the matter. While the prospect that the Democratic-led House of Representatives would begin the impeachment process to try to remove Trump from office appears to have receded, the House Judiciary Committee will be looking for any evidence relevant to ongoing probes into obstruction of justice, corruption and abuse of power by the president or others in the administration. Barr's comment that most of what Mueller probed on obstruction has been publicly reported indicates that events like Trump's firing of James Comey as FBI director in May 2017 when the agency was heading the Russia inquiry are likely to be the focus of this section of the report. RUSSIAN 'INFORMATION WARFARE' AND CAMPAIGN CONTACTS The report will detail indictments by Mueller of two Kremlin-backed operations to influence the 2016 election: one against a St. Petersburg-based troll farm called the Internet Research Agency accused of waging "information warfare" over social media; and the other charging Russian intelligence officers with hacking into Democratic Party servers and pilfering emails leaked to hurt Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton. With those two indictments already public and bearing no apparent link to the president, the focus may be on what Mueller concluded, if anything, about other incidents that involved contacts between Russians and people in Trump's orbit. That could include the June 2016 meeting at Trump Tower in New York in which a Russian lawyer promised "dirt" on Clinton to senior campaign officials, as well as a secret January 2017 meeting in the Seychelles investigated as a possible attempt to set up a back channel between the incoming Trump administration and the Kremlin while Democrat Barack Obama was still president. Any analysis of such contacts could shed light on why Mueller, according to Barr's summary, "did not establish that members of the Trump campaign conspired or coordinated with the Russian government in its election interference activities." MANAFORT, UKRAINE POLICY AND POLLING DATA In the weeks before Trump's former campaign chairman Paul Manafort was sentenced in March to 7-1/2 years in prison mostly for financial crimes related to millions of dollars he was paid by pro-Russia Ukrainian politicians, Mueller's team provided hints about what their pursuit of him was really about. Prosecutor Andrew Weissmann told a judge in February that an Aug. 2, 2016 meeting between Manafort and Konstantin Kilimnik, a consultant Mueller has said has ties to Russian intelligence, "went to the heart of" the special counsel's investigation. The meeting included a discussion about a proposal to resolve the conflict in Ukraine in terms favorable to the Kremlin, an issue that has damaged Russia's relations with the West. Prosecutors also said Manafort shared Trump campaign polling data with Kilimnik, although the significance of that act remains unclear.  One focus will be on what Mueller ultimately concluded about Manafort's interactions with Kilimnik and whether a failed attempt to secure cooperation from Manafort, who was found by a judge to have lied to prosecutors in breach of a plea agreement, significantly impeded the special counsel's work. NATIONAL SECURITY CONCERNS While Mueller did not find a criminal conspiracy with Russia, according to Barr, there is a chance the report will detail behavior and financial entanglements that give fodder to critics who have said Trump has shown a pattern of deference to the Kremlin. One example of such an entanglement was the proposal to build a Trump tower in Moscow, a deal potentially worth hundreds of millions of dollars that never materialized. Michael Cohen, Trump's former personal lawyer, admitted to lying to Congress about the project to provide cover because Trump on the campaign trail had denied any dealings with Russia. In the absence of criminal charges arising from Mueller's inquiry, House Intelligence Committee Chairman Adam Schiff has shifted his focus to whether Trump is "compromised" by such entanglements, influencing his policy decisions and posing a risk to national security. Some legal experts have said the counterintelligence probe Mueller inherited from Comey may prove more significant than his criminal inquiry, though it is not clear to what degree counterintelligence findings will be included in the report. Barr also has said he planned to redact material related to intelligence-gathering sources and methods. MIDDLE EAST INFLUENCE AND OTHER PROBES Another focus is whether Mueller will disclose anything from his inquiries into Middle Eastern efforts to influence Trump. One mystery is what, if anything, came of the special counsel's questioning of George Nader, a Lebanese-American businessman and consultant to the crown princes of the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia who started cooperating with Mueller last year. Nader attended the Seychelles meeting. He also was present at a Trump Tower meeting in August 2016, three months before the election, at which an Israeli social media specialist spoke with the president's son, Donald Trump Jr., about how his firm Psy-Group, which employed several former Israeli intelligence officers, could help the Trump campaign, according to the New York Times. Mueller's interest in Nader suggested the special counsel looked into whether additional countries sought to influence the election and whether they did so in concert with Russia. A lawyer for Nader did not respond to a request for comment. Barr has said he will redact from the Mueller report information on "other ongoing matters," including inquiries referred to other offices in the Justice Department. That makes it unclear if any findings related to the Middle East will appear in the report.  (Compiled by Nathan Layne in New York; Editing by Will Dunham)

Supported by By Reuters (Reuters) - Attorney General William Barr has provided only a glimpse of Special Counsel Robert Mueller's report on the inquiry into Russia's role in the 2016 U.S. election, with many details expected to emerge when the document is finally released. Barr on March 24 sent a four-page letter to lawmakers detailing Mueller's "principal conclusions" including that the 22-month probe did not establish that President Donald Trump's 2016 campaign team conspired with Russia. Barr said he found insufficient evidence in Mueller's report to conclude that Trump committed obstruction of justice, though the special counsel did not make a formal finding one way or the other on that. The attorney general told Congress he hopes to release the nearly 400-page report this week, with portions blacked out to protect certain types of sensitive information. Here are five things to look for when the report is issued. OBSTRUCTION OF JUSTICE: WHY NO EXONERATION? Perhaps the biggest political risk for Trump is the special counsel's supporting evidence behind Mueller's assertion that while the report does not conclude the Republican president committed the crime of obstruction of justice it "also does not exonerate him" on that point. According to Barr's March 24 letter, Mueller has presented evidence on both sides of the question without concluding whether to prosecute. Barr filled that void by asserting there was no prosecutable case. But Barr's statement in the letter that "most" of Trump's actions that had raised questions about obstruction were "the subject of public reporting" suggested that some actions were not publicly known. Democrats in Congress do not believe Barr, a Trump appointee, should have the final say on the matter. While the prospect that the Democratic-led House of Representatives would begin the impeachment process to try to remove Trump from office appears to have receded, the House Judiciary Committee will be looking for any evidence relevant to ongoing probes into obstruction of justice, corruption and abuse of power by the president or others in the administration. Barr's comment that most of what Mueller probed on obstruction has been publicly reported indicates that events like Trump's firing of James Comey as FBI director in May 2017 when the agency was heading the Russia inquiry are likely to be the focus of this section of the report. RUSSIAN 'INFORMATION WARFARE' AND CAMPAIGN CONTACTS The report will detail indictments by Mueller of two Kremlin-backed operations to influence the 2016 election: one against a St. Petersburg-based troll farm called the Internet Research Agency accused of waging "information warfare" over social media; and the other charging Russian intelligence officers with hacking into Democratic Party servers and pilfering emails leaked to hurt Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton. With those two indictments already public and bearing no apparent link to the president, the focus may be on what Mueller concluded, if anything, about other incidents that involved contacts between Russians and people in Trump's orbit. That could include the June 2016 meeting at Trump Tower in New York in which a Russian lawyer promised "dirt" on Clinton to senior campaign officials, as well as a secret January 2017 meeting in the Seychelles investigated as a possible attempt to set up a back channel between the incoming Trump administration and the Kremlin while Democrat Barack Obama was still president. Any analysis of such contacts could shed light on why Mueller, according to Barr's summary, "did not establish that members of the Trump campaign conspired or coordinated with the Russian government in its election interference activities." MANAFORT, UKRAINE POLICY AND POLLING DATA In the weeks before Trump's former campaign chairman Paul Manafort was sentenced in March to 7-1/2 years in prison mostly for financial crimes related to millions of dollars he was paid by pro-Russia Ukrainian politicians, Mueller's team provided hints about what their pursuit of him was really about. Prosecutor Andrew Weissmann told a judge in February that an Aug. 2, 2016 meeting between Manafort and Konstantin Kilimnik, a consultant Mueller has said has ties to Russian intelligence, "went to the heart of" the special counsel's investigation. The meeting included a discussion about a proposal to resolve the conflict in Ukraine in terms favorable to the Kremlin, an issue that has damaged Russia's relations with the West. Prosecutors also said Manafort shared Trump campaign polling data with Kilimnik, although the significance of that act remains unclear.  One focus will be on what Mueller ultimately concluded about Manafort's interactions with Kilimnik and whether a failed attempt to secure cooperation from Manafort, who was found by a judge to have lied to prosecutors in breach of a plea agreement, significantly impeded the special counsel's work. NATIONAL SECURITY CONCERNS While Mueller did not find a criminal conspiracy with Russia, according to Barr, there is a chance the report will detail behavior and financial entanglements that give fodder to critics who have said Trump has shown a pattern of deference to the Kremlin. One example of such an entanglement was the proposal to build a Trump tower in Moscow, a deal potentially worth hundreds of millions of dollars that never materialized. Michael Cohen, Trump's former personal lawyer, admitted to lying to Congress about the project to provide cover because Trump on the campaign trail had denied any dealings with Russia. In the absence of criminal charges arising from Mueller's inquiry, House Intelligence Committee Chairman Adam Schiff has shifted his focus to whether Trump is "compromised" by such entanglements, influencing his policy decisions and posing a risk to national security. Some legal experts have said the counterintelligence probe Mueller inherited from Comey may prove more significant than his criminal inquiry, though it is not clear to what degree counterintelligence findings will be included in the report. Barr also has said he planned to redact material related to intelligence-gathering sources and methods. MIDDLE EAST INFLUENCE AND OTHER PROBES Another focus is whether Mueller will disclose anything from his inquiries into Middle Eastern efforts to influence Trump. One mystery is what, if anything, came of the special counsel's questioning of George Nader, a Lebanese-American businessman and consultant to the crown princes of the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia who started cooperating with Mueller last year. Nader attended the Seychelles meeting. He also was present at a Trump Tower meeting in August 2016, three months before the election, at which an Israeli social media specialist spoke with the president's son, Donald Trump Jr., about how his firm Psy-Group, which employed several former Israeli intelligence officers, could help the Trump campaign, according to the New York Times. Mueller's interest in Nader suggested the special counsel looked into whether additional countries sought to influence the election and whether they did so in concert with Russia. A lawyer for Nader did not respond to a request for comment. Barr has said he will redact from the Mueller report information on "other ongoing matters," including inquiries referred to other offices in the Justice Department. That makes it unclear if any findings related to the Middle East will appear in the report.  (Compiled by Nathan Layne in New York; Editing by Will Dunham)Supported by Good Friday morning. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today. _____________________ • The much anticipated report by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, revealed the scope of the Russian campaign to sabotage the 2016 election and detailed a frantic, monthslong effort by President Trump to thwart a federal investigation that imperiled his presidency. The Mueller team decided not to charge the president with obstructing justice, citing numerous legal constraints, but pointedly declined to exonerate him. • Looking for the report’s highlights? Here are seven key things to know, and here are excerpts from the most significant passages, with analysis from our reporters. • How much was redacted? What happens next? Times reporters answered readers’ questions. • For nearly two years, Mr. Trump’s lawyers have argued that it was impossible for him to illegally obstruct the Russia investigation because he has full authority over federal law enforcement. Mr. Mueller rejected that idea, and noted that Mr. Trump would lose immunity from prosecution when he left office. • Here are four dramatic passages from the report and seven instances of potential obstruction of justice. • The White House that emerges from Mr. Mueller’s report is a hotbed of conflict infused by a culture of dishonesty, defined by a president who lies to the public and his own staff, then tries to get his aides to lie for him. • In one of the report’s more compelling revelations, investigators described how Mr. Trump ordered Michael T. Flynn, who would later serve briefly as his national security adviser, to find thousands of emails missing from Hillary Clinton’s computer server. • The report documents in great detail how a huge cast of Russian emissaries, some of whom were in direct contact with President Vladimir V. Putin, tried to forge inroads and influence the Trump team. • Before releasing the report, Attorney General William P. Barr presented the findings in the best possible light for the president. Mr. Trump, it seemed, had finally found the loyal attorney general he had longed for. • Mr. Trump responded to the release of the report in his customary fashion: a tweet. “Game Over,” the post said, with a photo styled like “Game of Thrones” showing a picture of the president from behind. “No Collusion. No Obstruction. For the haters and the radical left Democrats.” • House Democrats edged closer to confronting a question they have tried to avoid: whether the president’s behavior warrants impeachment. • Several Democratic presidential candidates assailed Mr. Barr for how he handled the report’s release, arguing that it was a partisan attempt to protect Mr. Trump. • On the streets of heavily Democratic Washington, D.C., there seemed to be exhaustion-induced acceptance that Mr. Mueller had not delivered the knockout condemnation of Mr. Trump that many had hoped for. • How did the release of a dense, 448-page report play out on cable news? It was a halting, if ultimately educational, glimpse at the tedious mechanics of real-time reporting: sifting through documents, puzzling over footnotes and more. _____________________ Today’s On Politics briefing was compiled by Isabella Grullón Paz in New York. Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.

Supported by Good Friday morning. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today. _____________________ • The much anticipated report by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, revealed the scope of the Russian campaign to sabotage the 2016 election and detailed a frantic, monthslong effort by President Trump to thwart a federal investigation that imperiled his presidency. The Mueller team decided not to charge the president with obstructing justice, citing numerous legal constraints, but pointedly declined to exonerate him. • Looking for the report’s highlights? Here are seven key things to know, and here are excerpts from the most significant passages, with analysis from our reporters. • How much was redacted? What happens next? Times reporters answered readers’ questions. • For nearly two years, Mr. Trump’s lawyers have argued that it was impossible for him to illegally obstruct the Russia investigation because he has full authority over federal law enforcement. Mr. Mueller rejected that idea, and noted that Mr. Trump would lose immunity from prosecution when he left office. • Here are four dramatic passages from the report and seven instances of potential obstruction of justice. • The White House that emerges from Mr. Mueller’s report is a hotbed of conflict infused by a culture of dishonesty, defined by a president who lies to the public and his own staff, then tries to get his aides to lie for him. • In one of the report’s more compelling revelations, investigators described how Mr. Trump ordered Michael T. Flynn, who would later serve briefly as his national security adviser, to find thousands of emails missing from Hillary Clinton’s computer server. • The report documents in great detail how a huge cast of Russian emissaries, some of whom were in direct contact with President Vladimir V. Putin, tried to forge inroads and influence the Trump team. • Before releasing the report, Attorney General William P. Barr presented the findings in the best possible light for the president. Mr. Trump, it seemed, had finally found the loyal attorney general he had longed for. • Mr. Trump responded to the release of the report in his customary fashion: a tweet. “Game Over,” the post said, with a photo styled like “Game of Thrones” showing a picture of the president from behind. “No Collusion. No Obstruction. For the haters and the radical left Democrats.” • House Democrats edged closer to confronting a question they have tried to avoid: whether the president’s behavior warrants impeachment. • Several Democratic presidential candidates assailed Mr. Barr for how he handled the report’s release, arguing that it was a partisan attempt to protect Mr. Trump. • On the streets of heavily Democratic Washington, D.C., there seemed to be exhaustion-induced acceptance that Mr. Mueller had not delivered the knockout condemnation of Mr. Trump that many had hoped for. • How did the release of a dense, 448-page report play out on cable news? It was a halting, if ultimately educational, glimpse at the tedious mechanics of real-time reporting: sifting through documents, puzzling over footnotes and more. _____________________ Today’s On Politics briefing was compiled by Isabella Grullón Paz in New York. Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.Supported by By The Associated Press DUBAI, United Arab Emirates — One of the most powerful leaders in the United Arab Emirates has found himself entangled in special counsel Robert Mueller's report on U.S. President Donald Trump and Russian interference in America's 2016 election. Abu Dhabi Crown Prince Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, believed to be the Emirates' day-to-day ruler, is the only world leader included in Mueller's cast-of-characters index near the end of the 448-page report. His inclusion, stemming from his mysterious role in a 2017 meeting between a Trump associate and a Russian middleman for Vladimir Putin in the Seychelles, stands out from otherwise glancing references to the wider Mideast. But left unsaid — or possibly redacted — is what motivated the UAE, a federation of seven sheikhdoms on the Arabian Peninsula, to insert itself as a middleman in contacts between Trump's campaign and Russia. However, the report's release comes as the UAE backs Trump's maximalist policies against Iran and as Emirati officials have been on a blitz of meetings with American officials, showing the importance they still place on their relationship with him even as faces opposition. "The Emiratis saw an opportunity for a do-over with the Americans with a new, incoming administration with a president they personally knew," said Ryan Bohl, an analyst with the Austin, Texas-based private intelligence firm Stratfor. "They didn't take into account that other institutions, like the military, the State Department, Congress, would all have an opinion too." Emirati government officials did not respond to requests for comment from The Associated Press about Sheikh Mohammed's inclusion. However, it comes the same week that Sheikh Mohammed, 58, found himself included in Time Magazine's 100 Most Influential People list. The ranking shows what has been known regionally for some time: that Sheikh Mohammed wields tremendous influence both home and abroad. Sheikh Mohammed's 71-year-old half-brother, Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, remains the Emirates' president and ruler and ruler of oil-rich Abu Dhabi but has been rarely seen since suffering a stroke in 2014. Sheikh Mohammed also maintains a tight relationship with neighboring Saudi Arabia's own upstart crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman. In a country where leaders rule absolutely, the Mueller report provides a brief glimpse into the deal-making and connections of the UAE. It puts Sheikh Mohammed at a luxury hotel in the Indian Ocean Seychelles islands in January 2017, just before Trump's inauguration, with his adviser George Nader. Nader is a Lebanese-American businessman convicted in a Czech Republic court in 2003 of multiple counts of sexually abusing minors, later would cooperate with Mueller's investigation. This meeting put Kirill Dmitriev, the head of a Russian sovereign wealth fund close to Putin, face to face with Erik Prince, the founder of the private military firm Blackwater who had ties to Trump officials, according to the report. Dmitriev earlier had asked Nader for access to Trump transition team members, the report said. While initially distrustful of meeting Prince, Nader reportedly made a point to stress that Prince's sister, Betsy DeVos, would become Trump's education secretary. "Dmitriev told Nader that Putin would be very grateful to Nader and that a meeting would make history," the report said. What happened at the Jan. 11, 2017, meeting that Dmitriev, Nader and Prince attended remains unclear, in part due to a series of redactions in the report. However, in the released material Prince reportedly told Dmitriev to warn Putin not to get Russia involved in Libya's still-ongoing civil war. The Washington Post broke news of the meeting in April 2017. Prince, who reportedly has helped the UAE form its own mercenary forces, later told Congress the meeting was happenstance and that "I didn't fly there to meet any Russian guy." That's directly contradicted by Mueller's report, which says Nadler set up the meeting with Prince ahead of time. It's unclear what implications Prince could face over the Mueller report. A request for comment to Prince's new firm, Frontier Services Group, was not immediately answered. The rest of the Mideast gets far less attention in Mueller's report. There's mention of a U.N. Security Council vote calling on Israel to stop building settlements in Palestinian territory, a vote which former Trump national security adviser Michael Flynn made calls to Russian officials about and later lied to investigators. Saudi Arabia is mentioned only in context of Trump showing staffers on Air Force One a resignation letter from then-Attorney General Jeff Sessions. However, the small UAE plays an oversized role in the report, as it does in Mideast politics due in part to its closeness to America. Some 5,000 American troops are stationed in the country, while Dubai's Jebel Ali port remains the U.S. Navy's busiest foreign port of call. What's public from Mueller's report does not elaborate on Sheikh Mohammed's role in the Seychelles meeting. However, Sheikh Mohammed also had sought a meeting in the U.S. with Trump transition officials before he entered the White House. But Sheikh Mohammed undoubtedly welcomed Trump's hard-line approach to Iran after President Barack Obama's administration signed onto Tehran's nuclear deal with world powers. And while Sheikh Mohammed hasn't been back to the U.S. for some time, the UAE's foreign minister and its minister of state for foreign affairs both have traveled to Washington in recent days. Trump also spoke by phone to Sheikh Mohammed on Thursday night after earlier vetoing a bill that called for the U.S. to pull its military support from the Saudi and Emirati war in Yemen. "For now, the Emiratis know they have a strong ally in the White House," Bohl, the Stratfor analyst, said. "What would be much more notable if we see them trying to reach out to potential Democratic successors as a backup plan for Trump." ___ Follow Jon Gambrell on Twitter at www.twitter.com/jongambrellap .

Supported by By The Associated Press DUBAI, United Arab Emirates — One of the most powerful leaders in the United Arab Emirates has found himself entangled in special counsel Robert Mueller's report on U.S. President Donald Trump and Russian interference in America's 2016 election. Abu Dhabi Crown Prince Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, believed to be the Emirates' day-to-day ruler, is the only world leader included in Mueller's cast-of-characters index near the end of the 448-page report. His inclusion, stemming from his mysterious role in a 2017 meeting between a Trump associate and a Russian middleman for Vladimir Putin in the Seychelles, stands out from otherwise glancing references to the wider Mideast. But left unsaid — or possibly redacted — is what motivated the UAE, a federation of seven sheikhdoms on the Arabian Peninsula, to insert itself as a middleman in contacts between Trump's campaign and Russia. However, the report's release comes as the UAE backs Trump's maximalist policies against Iran and as Emirati officials have been on a blitz of meetings with American officials, showing the importance they still place on their relationship with him even as faces opposition. "The Emiratis saw an opportunity for a do-over with the Americans with a new, incoming administration with a president they personally knew," said Ryan Bohl, an analyst with the Austin, Texas-based private intelligence firm Stratfor. "They didn't take into account that other institutions, like the military, the State Department, Congress, would all have an opinion too." Emirati government officials did not respond to requests for comment from The Associated Press about Sheikh Mohammed's inclusion. However, it comes the same week that Sheikh Mohammed, 58, found himself included in Time Magazine's 100 Most Influential People list. The ranking shows what has been known regionally for some time: that Sheikh Mohammed wields tremendous influence both home and abroad. Sheikh Mohammed's 71-year-old half-brother, Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, remains the Emirates' president and ruler and ruler of oil-rich Abu Dhabi but has been rarely seen since suffering a stroke in 2014. Sheikh Mohammed also maintains a tight relationship with neighboring Saudi Arabia's own upstart crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman. In a country where leaders rule absolutely, the Mueller report provides a brief glimpse into the deal-making and connections of the UAE. It puts Sheikh Mohammed at a luxury hotel in the Indian Ocean Seychelles islands in January 2017, just before Trump's inauguration, with his adviser George Nader. Nader is a Lebanese-American businessman convicted in a Czech Republic court in 2003 of multiple counts of sexually abusing minors, later would cooperate with Mueller's investigation. This meeting put Kirill Dmitriev, the head of a Russian sovereign wealth fund close to Putin, face to face with Erik Prince, the founder of the private military firm Blackwater who had ties to Trump officials, according to the report. Dmitriev earlier had asked Nader for access to Trump transition team members, the report said. While initially distrustful of meeting Prince, Nader reportedly made a point to stress that Prince's sister, Betsy DeVos, would become Trump's education secretary. "Dmitriev told Nader that Putin would be very grateful to Nader and that a meeting would make history," the report said. What happened at the Jan. 11, 2017, meeting that Dmitriev, Nader and Prince attended remains unclear, in part due to a series of redactions in the report. However, in the released material Prince reportedly told Dmitriev to warn Putin not to get Russia involved in Libya's still-ongoing civil war. The Washington Post broke news of the meeting in April 2017. Prince, who reportedly has helped the UAE form its own mercenary forces, later told Congress the meeting was happenstance and that "I didn't fly there to meet any Russian guy." That's directly contradicted by Mueller's report, which says Nadler set up the meeting with Prince ahead of time. It's unclear what implications Prince could face over the Mueller report. A request for comment to Prince's new firm, Frontier Services Group, was not immediately answered. The rest of the Mideast gets far less attention in Mueller's report. There's mention of a U.N. Security Council vote calling on Israel to stop building settlements in Palestinian territory, a vote which former Trump national security adviser Michael Flynn made calls to Russian officials about and later lied to investigators. Saudi Arabia is mentioned only in context of Trump showing staffers on Air Force One a resignation letter from then-Attorney General Jeff Sessions. However, the small UAE plays an oversized role in the report, as it does in Mideast politics due in part to its closeness to America. Some 5,000 American troops are stationed in the country, while Dubai's Jebel Ali port remains the U.S. Navy's busiest foreign port of call. What's public from Mueller's report does not elaborate on Sheikh Mohammed's role in the Seychelles meeting. However, Sheikh Mohammed also had sought a meeting in the U.S. with Trump transition officials before he entered the White House. But Sheikh Mohammed undoubtedly welcomed Trump's hard-line approach to Iran after President Barack Obama's administration signed onto Tehran's nuclear deal with world powers. And while Sheikh Mohammed hasn't been back to the U.S. for some time, the UAE's foreign minister and its minister of state for foreign affairs both have traveled to Washington in recent days. Trump also spoke by phone to Sheikh Mohammed on Thursday night after earlier vetoing a bill that called for the U.S. to pull its military support from the Saudi and Emirati war in Yemen. "For now, the Emiratis know they have a strong ally in the White House," Bohl, the Stratfor analyst, said. "What would be much more notable if we see them trying to reach out to potential Democratic successors as a backup plan for Trump." ___ Follow Jon Gambrell on Twitter at www.twitter.com/jongambrellap .Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — Attorney General William Barr said Tuesday he expects to release a redacted version of the special counsel's Trump-Russia investigation report "within a week." Barr told members of Congress at his first public appearance since receiving special counsel Robert Mueller's report that his earlier projection of releasing a version by mid-April still stood. The report, which is nearly 400 pages long, is being scoured now to remove grand jury information and details that relate to pending investigations. Democrats scolded Barr over his handling of the report, telling him they were concerned that a summary of its main conclusions he released last month portrayed the investigation's findings in an overly favorable way for President Donald Trump. Rep. Nita Lowey, the Democratic chairwoman of the House Appropriations Committee, said she was taken aback that Barr had reduced Mueller's report to a four-page letter in just two days. That letter said that Mueller did not find a criminal conspiracy between Russia and Trump associates, and that Barr did not believe the evidence in the report was sufficient to prove the president had obstructed justice. "Even for someone who has done this job before, I would argue it's more suspicious than impressive," Lowey said. Explaining the rapid turnaround for his letter, Barr said, "The thinking of the special counsel was not a mystery to the Department of Justice prior to the submission of the report." Barr was summoned to Congress to talk about his department's budget request, but lawmakers still asked about the Mueller report as they waited to see it. Barr's prepared remarks, sent to the committee on Monday, focused on funding requests for immigration enforcement and the fights against violent crime and opioid addiction, not mentioning the special counsel's report at all. Mueller sent his final report to Barr on March 22, ending his almost two-year investigation into possible ties between Trump's 2016 presidential campaign and Russia. Barr released a four-page letter summarizing the report two days later and said he would release a redacted version of the full report by mid-April, "if not sooner." The new attorney general's budget testimony — traditionally a dry affair, and often addressing the parochial concerns of lawmakers — came as Democrats were enraged that he was redacting material from the report and frustrated that his summary framed a narrative about Trump before they were able to see the full version. The Democrats are demanding that they see the full report and all its underlying evidence, though Trump and his Republican allies are pushing back. The chairman of the Ways and Means subcommittee, Democratic Rep. Jose Serrano of New York, told Barr there were "serious concerns about the process by which you formulated your letter; and uncertainty about when we can expect to see the full report." Barr said in the summary released last month that Mueller didn't find a criminal conspiracy between the campaign and the Kremlin. He also said that Mueller did not reach a conclusion on whether the president obstructed justice, instead presenting evidence on both sides of the question. Barr said he and Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein decided that the evidence was insufficient to establish obstruction. Facing the intensifying concerns from Democrats that he may have whitewashed Mueller's findings, Barr has twice moved to defend, or at least explain, his handling of the process since receiving the special counsel's report. He has said that he did not intend for his four-page summary of Mueller's main conclusions to be an "exhaustive recounting" of his work and that he could not immediately release the entire report because it included grand jury material and other sensitive information that needed to be redacted. He is likely to be asked to further explain himself at a Senate Appropriations subcommittee hearing Wednesday that is also on the budget. Barr is to testify on the report itself at separate hearings before the Senate and House Judiciary committees on May 1 and May 2. Rep. Jerrold Nadler, a New York Democrat and chairman of the House Judiciary panel, confirmed the May 2 date on Twitter and said he would like Mueller to testify. Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., has said he would be satisfied hearing only from Barr and not Mueller.

Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — Attorney General William Barr said Tuesday he expects to release a redacted version of the special counsel's Trump-Russia investigation report "within a week." Barr told members of Congress at his first public appearance since receiving special counsel Robert Mueller's report that his earlier projection of releasing a version by mid-April still stood. The report, which is nearly 400 pages long, is being scoured now to remove grand jury information and details that relate to pending investigations. Democrats scolded Barr over his handling of the report, telling him they were concerned that a summary of its main conclusions he released last month portrayed the investigation's findings in an overly favorable way for President Donald Trump. Rep. Nita Lowey, the Democratic chairwoman of the House Appropriations Committee, said she was taken aback that Barr had reduced Mueller's report to a four-page letter in just two days. That letter said that Mueller did not find a criminal conspiracy between Russia and Trump associates, and that Barr did not believe the evidence in the report was sufficient to prove the president had obstructed justice. "Even for someone who has done this job before, I would argue it's more suspicious than impressive," Lowey said. Explaining the rapid turnaround for his letter, Barr said, "The thinking of the special counsel was not a mystery to the Department of Justice prior to the submission of the report." Barr was summoned to Congress to talk about his department's budget request, but lawmakers still asked about the Mueller report as they waited to see it. Barr's prepared remarks, sent to the committee on Monday, focused on funding requests for immigration enforcement and the fights against violent crime and opioid addiction, not mentioning the special counsel's report at all. Mueller sent his final report to Barr on March 22, ending his almost two-year investigation into possible ties between Trump's 2016 presidential campaign and Russia. Barr released a four-page letter summarizing the report two days later and said he would release a redacted version of the full report by mid-April, "if not sooner." The new attorney general's budget testimony — traditionally a dry affair, and often addressing the parochial concerns of lawmakers — came as Democrats were enraged that he was redacting material from the report and frustrated that his summary framed a narrative about Trump before they were able to see the full version. The Democrats are demanding that they see the full report and all its underlying evidence, though Trump and his Republican allies are pushing back. The chairman of the Ways and Means subcommittee, Democratic Rep. Jose Serrano of New York, told Barr there were "serious concerns about the process by which you formulated your letter; and uncertainty about when we can expect to see the full report." Barr said in the summary released last month that Mueller didn't find a criminal conspiracy between the campaign and the Kremlin. He also said that Mueller did not reach a conclusion on whether the president obstructed justice, instead presenting evidence on both sides of the question. Barr said he and Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein decided that the evidence was insufficient to establish obstruction. Facing the intensifying concerns from Democrats that he may have whitewashed Mueller's findings, Barr has twice moved to defend, or at least explain, his handling of the process since receiving the special counsel's report. He has said that he did not intend for his four-page summary of Mueller's main conclusions to be an "exhaustive recounting" of his work and that he could not immediately release the entire report because it included grand jury material and other sensitive information that needed to be redacted. He is likely to be asked to further explain himself at a Senate Appropriations subcommittee hearing Wednesday that is also on the budget. Barr is to testify on the report itself at separate hearings before the Senate and House Judiciary committees on May 1 and May 2. Rep. Jerrold Nadler, a New York Democrat and chairman of the House Judiciary panel, confirmed the May 2 date on Twitter and said he would like Mueller to testify. Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., has said he would be satisfied hearing only from Barr and not Mueller.Supported by By Michael S. Schmidt and Scott Shane WASHINGTON — The report on the investigation by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, will be made public on Thursday, and unless you’re a counterintelligence analyst, you may have lost track of how we got to this point in the saga and what Mr. Mueller was investigating in the first place. Here is a guide to what has happened over the past three years (yes, it’s been that long) and what we learned.  March 2016 Military intelligence officers in Moscow, working for the agency known as the G.R.U., used phishing emails and malware to hack into the Democratic National Committee and the Gmail account of John Podesta, Hillary Clinton’s campaign manager. Meanwhile, operatives at the Internet Research Agency, a private company in St. Petersburg with Kremlin ties, accelerated their influence campaign, posing as Americans on Facebook and Twitter to mock Mrs. Clinton, promote Mr. Trump and sow discord. Other operatives came to the United States to gather intelligence and coordinate with unwitting Trump campaign staff to organize rallies, according to an indictment. They were all aspects of a broader Russian operation that began in 2014, court papers show. American intelligence agencies would conclude that President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia ordered the intervention. Though it began well before Mr. Trump announced his run, Mr. Putin, who had long despised Mrs. Clinton, was later drawn to Mr. Trump’s Russia-friendly stances. As Mr. Trump gained ground in the race, the Russian operatives adjusted their targets accordingly. Read More: The Perfect Weapon: How Russian Cyberpower Invaded the U.S. The Plot to Subvert an Election: Unraveling the Russia Story So Far July 2016 Three days before the Democratic Party nominated Mrs. Clinton, the anti-secrecy website WikiLeaks released 20,000 emails the Russians had hacked from the D.N.C., embarrassing Democrats and alerting the C.I.A. and F.B.I. to the Russian interference. Days later, F.B.I. agents learned the details of an even more troubling fact: One of Mr. Trump’s campaign advisers, George Papadopoulos, knew in advance about Russia’s plans.  As links between the Trump campaign and Russia emerged, Mr. Trump’s repeated praise for Mr. Putin, and his disdain for NATO and traditional American allies — unusual stances for a Republican — added to suspicions about his relationship with Russia. In late July, the F.B.I. opened an investigation, code-named Crossfire Hurricane, to examine the connections between Trump associates and Russia. The investigation initially focused on Mr. Papadopoulos and three others with significant Russian ties: Paul Manafort, Michael T. Flynn and Carter Page. Read More: Assange, Avowed Foe of Clinton, Timed Email Release for Democratic Convention Code Name Crossfire Hurricane: The Secret Origins of the Trump Investigation December 2016 After Mr. Trump was elected, Mr. Flynn, the incoming national security adviser, discussed with the Russian ambassador the sanctions that President Barack Obama had imposed on Russia over its election interference. But Mr. Flynn lied about the conversations, both to others in the White House and to federal investigators, leading to his dismissal and criminal charges.  Separately, Jared Kushner, the president’s son-in-law, met with a Russian banker during the presidential transition, calling it a routine diplomatic meeting; Russian officials said they had discussed the Kushner family’s real estate business. Incoming Trump administration officials began to explore how sanctions on Russia might be lifted, possibly as a result of a “grand bargain” over its incursions into Ukraine. Some Obama administration holdovers feared an easing of sanctions might be payback for Russian help in the election. Read More: In Closed Hearing, a Clue About ‘the Heart’ of Mueller’s Russia Inquiry Prosecutors Examining Ukrainians Who Flocked to Trump Inaugural Investigation Turns to Kushner’s Motives in Meeting With a Putin Ally Flynn Is Said to Have Talked to Russians About Sanctions Before Trump Took Office January 2017 Weeks before Mr. Trump was inaugurated, the heads of the American intelligence agencies briefed him at Trump Tower about how Russia worked during the campaign to help him defeat Mrs. Clinton. But the information left Mr. Trump unconvinced. After the briefing, the F.B.I. director, James B. Comey, pulled Mr. Trump aside to warn him that a dossier compiled by a bureau informant asserted that the Russians had compromising material on him, though Mr. Comey cautioned that the information had not been corroborated. Throughout the early months of Mr. Trump’s presidency, he grew increasingly agitated with Mr. Comey. The president complained about the bureau’s decision to move forward with the Russia investigation and Mr. Comey’s unwillingness to say publicly that he was not under investigation. Read More: In a Private Dinner, Trump Demanded Loyalty. Comey Demurred. The Trump Dossier: What We Know and Who Paid for It From the Start, Trump Has Muddied a Clear Message: Putin Interfered OP-ED Contributor: I’m Proud We Published the Trump-Russia Dossier May 2017 On May 9, 2017, Mr. Trump fired Mr. Comey, setting off a chain of events that led to the appointment of Mr. Mueller several days later.  Among the issues Mr. Mueller was assigned to investigate: the dimensions of Russia’s interference in the election, including any possible involvement by Trump associates; whether Mr. Trump had obstructed justice by firing Mr. Comey and asking him to end the Flynn investigation; and whether the president was a witting or unwitting agent of Russia. Read More: Robert Mueller, Former F.B.I. Director, Is Named Special Counsel for Russia Investigation What Will Mueller Do? The Answer Might Lie in a By-the-Book Past F.B.I. Opened Inquiry Into Whether Trump Was Secretly Working on Behalf of Russia Talk of the 25th Amendment Underscores a Volatile Presidency June 2017 Mr. Trump stewed about Mr. Mueller’s investigation, blaming Attorney General Jeff Sessions, who had recused himself from oversight of the inquiry on the counsel of ethics advisers. A month after Mr. Mueller’s appointment, a fed-up president told his White House counsel, Donald F. McGahn, to fire Mr. Mueller, but Mr. McGahn refused. The episode was one of many actions and statements by the president, many of them in public, that seemed to be intended to disrupt or derail the Mueller investigation, which Mr. Trump routinely derided as a “witch hunt.” The pattern would feed into Mr. Mueller’s task of deciding whether Mr. Trump had obstructed justice or tried to do so. Read More: Trump Asked Sessions to Retain Control of Russia Inquiry After His Recusal Trump’s Son Met With Russian Lawyer After Being Promised Damaging Information on Clinton Trump Ordered Mueller Fired, but Backed Off When White House Counsel Threatened to Quit October 2017 Mr. Manafort and another senior campaign official, Rick Gates, were indicted on charges of financial crimes related to their work as consultants for a pro-Russian leader of Ukraine. Court papers revealed that Mr. Papadopoulos had pleaded guilty to lying to the F.B.I. about his contacts with Russian intermediaries during the campaign.  A month and a half later, Mr. Flynn also pleaded guilty to lying about his own contacts with the Russians and agreed to cooperate with prosecutors. The investigation, in other words, had already caught up Mr. Trump’s campaign manager and first national security adviser, among many others. Most of the charges involved lying to the F.B.I. or to Congress, and a pressing question for Mr. Mueller’s team was why so many of Mr. Trump’s associates felt compelled to conceal the truth. Read More: Former Trump Aides Charged as Prosecutors Reveal New Campaign Ties With Russia How the Russia Inquiry Began: A Campaign Aide, Drinks and Talk of Political Dirt Michael Flynn Pleads Guilty to Lying to the F.B.I. and Will Cooperate With Russia Inquiry Emails Dispute White House Claims That Flynn Acted Independently on Russia February 2018 In detailed court papers that laid out a major aspect of the Kremlin’s interference scheme, Mr. Mueller charged 13 Russians and three Russian companies for mounting the fraudulent social media campaign. A second indictment would follow in July, naming the Russian military intelligence officers who had hacked and leaked Democratic emails during the campaign. The accused Russians were unlikely ever to be arrested or face trial. But the indictments, packed with remarkable detail, had a political impact: They undercut Mr. Trump’s repeated claims that no one really knew whether Russia was responsible for the election interference or that the Russian actions were a “hoax.” Read More: 13 Russians Indicted as Mueller Reveals Effort to Aid Trump Campaign 12 Russian Agents Indicted in Mueller Investigation 12 Russians Charged: Major Highlights of the Indictment and Rod Rosenstein’s Statement April 2018 Mr. Mueller’s investigators unearthed new leads about possible corruption relating to Mr. Trump beyond Russia. After a referral from Mr. Mueller, federal prosecutors in Manhattan began investigating potential violations of campaign finance laws, raiding the residences and office of Mr. Trump’s longtime lawyer and fixer, Michael D. Cohen. He pleaded guilty in August to illegally paying off two women during the 2016 campaign to silence them about sexual encounters they alleged with Mr. Trump, who has denied the affairs. In court, Mr. Cohen said Mr. Trump directed him to arrange the payments, an assertion echoed by prosecutors months later, effectively tagging Mr. Trump as an unindicted co-conspirator in the crime. Also in August, a jury convicted Mr. Manafort on financial fraud counts, not tied to the Trump campaign but exposing him to a lengthy prison sentence. He would plead guilty in a separate case, agree to cooperate — but later be accused of continuing to lie as prosecutors questioned him under his plea agreement.  Prosecutors would say he had given Konstantin V. Kilimnik, a longtime associate suspected of ties to Russian intelligence, detailed polling data from the presidential campaign. Read More: Michael Cohen Secretly Taped Trump Discussing Payment to Playboy Model Tools of Trump’s Fixer: Payouts, Intimidation and the Tabloids Paul Manafort, Trump’s Former Campaign Chairman, Guilty of 8 Counts December 2018 Mr. Cohen pleaded guilty to another charge: lying to Congress about how long Mr. Trump pursued a real estate project in Russia during 2016. His plea demonstrated that Mr. Trump had continued to negotiate over a proposed Trump Tower Moscow deep into the campaign — even as he publicly encouraged the Russians to hack Mrs. Clinton’s emails and the Kremlin kept up its effort to help his campaign. As the investigations around Mr. Trump intensified at the end of the year, he tried a familiar tactic: He asked his acting attorney general to try to exert more control over the investigations related to Mr. Cohen. In January, Mr. Mueller continued his pursuit of those around Mr. Trump, indicting the president’s longtime adviser, Roger Stone, on charges of lying to Congress about his contacts with WikiLeaks during the campaign. The indictment contained a curious detail. It said that a senior campaign official “was directed” by an unnamed person to have Mr. Stone inquire from WikiLeaks about the future release of material damaging to Mrs. Clinton. Read More: Cohen Pleads Guilty and Details Trump’s Involvement in Moscow Tower Project Prosecutors Effectively Accuse Trump of Defrauding Voters. What Does It Mean? February 2019 In a daylong appearance before the House Oversight Committee, Mr. Cohen turned on the boss he had once said he would “take a bullet” to protect. He said he had only “suspicions” of a Trump-Russia connection but laid out evidence of a range of possible crimes with no Russian connection. He displayed a check signed by the president, he said was to reimburse him for hush money payments, that could implicate Mr. Trump in a campaign finance violation. He described how Mr. Trump inflated and deflated the value of his assets to get loans or reduce taxes, actions that could amount to bank fraud, insurance fraud and tax evasion. He said Mr. Trump had indicated, without directly instructing him, that he should lie to Congress. He described how Mr. Trump had used his charity to purchase a portrait of himself, in evident violation of state laws governing charitable foundations. Read More: Michael Cohen Accuses Trump of Expansive Pattern of Lies and Criminality Testimony From Cohen Could Compound Legal Issues for Trump With Sweeping Document Request, Democrats Launch Broad Trump Corruption Inquiry march 2019 Mr. Mueller delivered a lengthy report to Attorney General William P. Barr last month. Two days later, Mr. Barr announced that Mr. Mueller “did not find that the Trump campaign, or anyone associated with it, conspired or coordinated with" Russia.  A more clouded picture emerged on the question of whether Mr. Trump illegally obstructed justice. Mr. Barr said that Mr. Mueller declined to determine whether Mr. Trump broke the law but also pointedly did not exonerate him. Mr. Barr said that left it to him to make the judgment, and that he and Mr. Rosenstein concluded that Mr. Trump had not violated the law. But some of the special counsel’s investigators told associates that Mr. Barr failed to adequately portray their findings and that they were more troubling for Mr. Trump than his attorney general indicated. Read More: Mueller Delivers Report on Trump-Russia Investigation to Attorney General Mueller Finds No Trump-Russia Conspiracy, but Stops Short of Exonerating President on Obstruction Some on Mueller’s Team Say Report Was More Damaging Than Barr Revealed If Mr. Mueller portrays Mr. Trump as intent on using his power to protect himself and his associates from an investigation, the revelations could prompt Democrats to expand their investigations into the president and even consider impeachment. But if the report simply summarizes what is already known, it could embolden Mr. Trump, who has already begun calling for scrutiny of the investigation’s origins. Michael S. Schmidt is a Washington correspondent covering national security and federal investigations. He was part of two teams that won Pulitzer Prizes in 2018 — one for reporting on workplace sexual harassment and the other for coverage of President Trump and his campaign’s ties to Russia.  @NYTMike  Scott Shane is a national security reporter in Washington. He was part of teams that won Pulitzer Prizes in 2017 for coverage of Russia's projections of power abroad and in 2018 for reporting on Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election.  @ScottShaneNYT • Facebook 

Supported by By Michael S. Schmidt and Scott Shane WASHINGTON — The report on the investigation by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, will be made public on Thursday, and unless you’re a counterintelligence analyst, you may have lost track of how we got to this point in the saga and what Mr. Mueller was investigating in the first place. Here is a guide to what has happened over the past three years (yes, it’s been that long) and what we learned.  March 2016 Military intelligence officers in Moscow, working for the agency known as the G.R.U., used phishing emails and malware to hack into the Democratic National Committee and the Gmail account of John Podesta, Hillary Clinton’s campaign manager. Meanwhile, operatives at the Internet Research Agency, a private company in St. Petersburg with Kremlin ties, accelerated their influence campaign, posing as Americans on Facebook and Twitter to mock Mrs. Clinton, promote Mr. Trump and sow discord. Other operatives came to the United States to gather intelligence and coordinate with unwitting Trump campaign staff to organize rallies, according to an indictment. They were all aspects of a broader Russian operation that began in 2014, court papers show. American intelligence agencies would conclude that President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia ordered the intervention. Though it began well before Mr. Trump announced his run, Mr. Putin, who had long despised Mrs. Clinton, was later drawn to Mr. Trump’s Russia-friendly stances. As Mr. Trump gained ground in the race, the Russian operatives adjusted their targets accordingly. Read More: The Perfect Weapon: How Russian Cyberpower Invaded the U.S. The Plot to Subvert an Election: Unraveling the Russia Story So Far July 2016 Three days before the Democratic Party nominated Mrs. Clinton, the anti-secrecy website WikiLeaks released 20,000 emails the Russians had hacked from the D.N.C., embarrassing Democrats and alerting the C.I.A. and F.B.I. to the Russian interference. Days later, F.B.I. agents learned the details of an even more troubling fact: One of Mr. Trump’s campaign advisers, George Papadopoulos, knew in advance about Russia’s plans.  As links between the Trump campaign and Russia emerged, Mr. Trump’s repeated praise for Mr. Putin, and his disdain for NATO and traditional American allies — unusual stances for a Republican — added to suspicions about his relationship with Russia. In late July, the F.B.I. opened an investigation, code-named Crossfire Hurricane, to examine the connections between Trump associates and Russia. The investigation initially focused on Mr. Papadopoulos and three others with significant Russian ties: Paul Manafort, Michael T. Flynn and Carter Page. Read More: Assange, Avowed Foe of Clinton, Timed Email Release for Democratic Convention Code Name Crossfire Hurricane: The Secret Origins of the Trump Investigation December 2016 After Mr. Trump was elected, Mr. Flynn, the incoming national security adviser, discussed with the Russian ambassador the sanctions that President Barack Obama had imposed on Russia over its election interference. But Mr. Flynn lied about the conversations, both to others in the White House and to federal investigators, leading to his dismissal and criminal charges.  Separately, Jared Kushner, the president’s son-in-law, met with a Russian banker during the presidential transition, calling it a routine diplomatic meeting; Russian officials said they had discussed the Kushner family’s real estate business. Incoming Trump administration officials began to explore how sanctions on Russia might be lifted, possibly as a result of a “grand bargain” over its incursions into Ukraine. Some Obama administration holdovers feared an easing of sanctions might be payback for Russian help in the election. Read More: In Closed Hearing, a Clue About ‘the Heart’ of Mueller’s Russia Inquiry Prosecutors Examining Ukrainians Who Flocked to Trump Inaugural Investigation Turns to Kushner’s Motives in Meeting With a Putin Ally Flynn Is Said to Have Talked to Russians About Sanctions Before Trump Took Office January 2017 Weeks before Mr. Trump was inaugurated, the heads of the American intelligence agencies briefed him at Trump Tower about how Russia worked during the campaign to help him defeat Mrs. Clinton. But the information left Mr. Trump unconvinced. After the briefing, the F.B.I. director, James B. Comey, pulled Mr. Trump aside to warn him that a dossier compiled by a bureau informant asserted that the Russians had compromising material on him, though Mr. Comey cautioned that the information had not been corroborated. Throughout the early months of Mr. Trump’s presidency, he grew increasingly agitated with Mr. Comey. The president complained about the bureau’s decision to move forward with the Russia investigation and Mr. Comey’s unwillingness to say publicly that he was not under investigation. Read More: In a Private Dinner, Trump Demanded Loyalty. Comey Demurred. The Trump Dossier: What We Know and Who Paid for It From the Start, Trump Has Muddied a Clear Message: Putin Interfered OP-ED Contributor: I’m Proud We Published the Trump-Russia Dossier May 2017 On May 9, 2017, Mr. Trump fired Mr. Comey, setting off a chain of events that led to the appointment of Mr. Mueller several days later.  Among the issues Mr. Mueller was assigned to investigate: the dimensions of Russia’s interference in the election, including any possible involvement by Trump associates; whether Mr. Trump had obstructed justice by firing Mr. Comey and asking him to end the Flynn investigation; and whether the president was a witting or unwitting agent of Russia. Read More: Robert Mueller, Former F.B.I. Director, Is Named Special Counsel for Russia Investigation What Will Mueller Do? The Answer Might Lie in a By-the-Book Past F.B.I. Opened Inquiry Into Whether Trump Was Secretly Working on Behalf of Russia Talk of the 25th Amendment Underscores a Volatile Presidency June 2017 Mr. Trump stewed about Mr. Mueller’s investigation, blaming Attorney General Jeff Sessions, who had recused himself from oversight of the inquiry on the counsel of ethics advisers. A month after Mr. Mueller’s appointment, a fed-up president told his White House counsel, Donald F. McGahn, to fire Mr. Mueller, but Mr. McGahn refused. The episode was one of many actions and statements by the president, many of them in public, that seemed to be intended to disrupt or derail the Mueller investigation, which Mr. Trump routinely derided as a “witch hunt.” The pattern would feed into Mr. Mueller’s task of deciding whether Mr. Trump had obstructed justice or tried to do so. Read More: Trump Asked Sessions to Retain Control of Russia Inquiry After His Recusal Trump’s Son Met With Russian Lawyer After Being Promised Damaging Information on Clinton Trump Ordered Mueller Fired, but Backed Off When White House Counsel Threatened to Quit October 2017 Mr. Manafort and another senior campaign official, Rick Gates, were indicted on charges of financial crimes related to their work as consultants for a pro-Russian leader of Ukraine. Court papers revealed that Mr. Papadopoulos had pleaded guilty to lying to the F.B.I. about his contacts with Russian intermediaries during the campaign.  A month and a half later, Mr. Flynn also pleaded guilty to lying about his own contacts with the Russians and agreed to cooperate with prosecutors. The investigation, in other words, had already caught up Mr. Trump’s campaign manager and first national security adviser, among many others. Most of the charges involved lying to the F.B.I. or to Congress, and a pressing question for Mr. Mueller’s team was why so many of Mr. Trump’s associates felt compelled to conceal the truth. Read More: Former Trump Aides Charged as Prosecutors Reveal New Campaign Ties With Russia How the Russia Inquiry Began: A Campaign Aide, Drinks and Talk of Political Dirt Michael Flynn Pleads Guilty to Lying to the F.B.I. and Will Cooperate With Russia Inquiry Emails Dispute White House Claims That Flynn Acted Independently on Russia February 2018 In detailed court papers that laid out a major aspect of the Kremlin’s interference scheme, Mr. Mueller charged 13 Russians and three Russian companies for mounting the fraudulent social media campaign. A second indictment would follow in July, naming the Russian military intelligence officers who had hacked and leaked Democratic emails during the campaign. The accused Russians were unlikely ever to be arrested or face trial. But the indictments, packed with remarkable detail, had a political impact: They undercut Mr. Trump’s repeated claims that no one really knew whether Russia was responsible for the election interference or that the Russian actions were a “hoax.” Read More: 13 Russians Indicted as Mueller Reveals Effort to Aid Trump Campaign 12 Russian Agents Indicted in Mueller Investigation 12 Russians Charged: Major Highlights of the Indictment and Rod Rosenstein’s Statement April 2018 Mr. Mueller’s investigators unearthed new leads about possible corruption relating to Mr. Trump beyond Russia. After a referral from Mr. Mueller, federal prosecutors in Manhattan began investigating potential violations of campaign finance laws, raiding the residences and office of Mr. Trump’s longtime lawyer and fixer, Michael D. Cohen. He pleaded guilty in August to illegally paying off two women during the 2016 campaign to silence them about sexual encounters they alleged with Mr. Trump, who has denied the affairs. In court, Mr. Cohen said Mr. Trump directed him to arrange the payments, an assertion echoed by prosecutors months later, effectively tagging Mr. Trump as an unindicted co-conspirator in the crime. Also in August, a jury convicted Mr. Manafort on financial fraud counts, not tied to the Trump campaign but exposing him to a lengthy prison sentence. He would plead guilty in a separate case, agree to cooperate — but later be accused of continuing to lie as prosecutors questioned him under his plea agreement.  Prosecutors would say he had given Konstantin V. Kilimnik, a longtime associate suspected of ties to Russian intelligence, detailed polling data from the presidential campaign. Read More: Michael Cohen Secretly Taped Trump Discussing Payment to Playboy Model Tools of Trump’s Fixer: Payouts, Intimidation and the Tabloids Paul Manafort, Trump’s Former Campaign Chairman, Guilty of 8 Counts December 2018 Mr. Cohen pleaded guilty to another charge: lying to Congress about how long Mr. Trump pursued a real estate project in Russia during 2016. His plea demonstrated that Mr. Trump had continued to negotiate over a proposed Trump Tower Moscow deep into the campaign — even as he publicly encouraged the Russians to hack Mrs. Clinton’s emails and the Kremlin kept up its effort to help his campaign. As the investigations around Mr. Trump intensified at the end of the year, he tried a familiar tactic: He asked his acting attorney general to try to exert more control over the investigations related to Mr. Cohen. In January, Mr. Mueller continued his pursuit of those around Mr. Trump, indicting the president’s longtime adviser, Roger Stone, on charges of lying to Congress about his contacts with WikiLeaks during the campaign. The indictment contained a curious detail. It said that a senior campaign official “was directed” by an unnamed person to have Mr. Stone inquire from WikiLeaks about the future release of material damaging to Mrs. Clinton. Read More: Cohen Pleads Guilty and Details Trump’s Involvement in Moscow Tower Project Prosecutors Effectively Accuse Trump of Defrauding Voters. What Does It Mean? February 2019 In a daylong appearance before the House Oversight Committee, Mr. Cohen turned on the boss he had once said he would “take a bullet” to protect. He said he had only “suspicions” of a Trump-Russia connection but laid out evidence of a range of possible crimes with no Russian connection. He displayed a check signed by the president, he said was to reimburse him for hush money payments, that could implicate Mr. Trump in a campaign finance violation. He described how Mr. Trump inflated and deflated the value of his assets to get loans or reduce taxes, actions that could amount to bank fraud, insurance fraud and tax evasion. He said Mr. Trump had indicated, without directly instructing him, that he should lie to Congress. He described how Mr. Trump had used his charity to purchase a portrait of himself, in evident violation of state laws governing charitable foundations. Read More: Michael Cohen Accuses Trump of Expansive Pattern of Lies and Criminality Testimony From Cohen Could Compound Legal Issues for Trump With Sweeping Document Request, Democrats Launch Broad Trump Corruption Inquiry march 2019 Mr. Mueller delivered a lengthy report to Attorney General William P. Barr last month. Two days later, Mr. Barr announced that Mr. Mueller “did not find that the Trump campaign, or anyone associated with it, conspired or coordinated with" Russia.  A more clouded picture emerged on the question of whether Mr. Trump illegally obstructed justice. Mr. Barr said that Mr. Mueller declined to determine whether Mr. Trump broke the law but also pointedly did not exonerate him. Mr. Barr said that left it to him to make the judgment, and that he and Mr. Rosenstein concluded that Mr. Trump had not violated the law. But some of the special counsel’s investigators told associates that Mr. Barr failed to adequately portray their findings and that they were more troubling for Mr. Trump than his attorney general indicated. Read More: Mueller Delivers Report on Trump-Russia Investigation to Attorney General Mueller Finds No Trump-Russia Conspiracy, but Stops Short of Exonerating President on Obstruction Some on Mueller’s Team Say Report Was More Damaging Than Barr Revealed If Mr. Mueller portrays Mr. Trump as intent on using his power to protect himself and his associates from an investigation, the revelations could prompt Democrats to expand their investigations into the president and even consider impeachment. But if the report simply summarizes what is already known, it could embolden Mr. Trump, who has already begun calling for scrutiny of the investigation’s origins. Michael S. Schmidt is a Washington correspondent covering national security and federal investigations. He was part of two teams that won Pulitzer Prizes in 2018 — one for reporting on workplace sexual harassment and the other for coverage of President Trump and his campaign’s ties to Russia.  @NYTMike  Scott Shane is a national security reporter in Washington. He was part of teams that won Pulitzer Prizes in 2017 for coverage of Russia's projections of power abroad and in 2018 for reporting on Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election.  @ScottShaneNYT • Facebook Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump's lawyers are putting the finishing touches on a rebuttal to the forthcoming report by special counsel Robert Mueller. Rudy Giuliani, one of the president's attorneys, said Tuesday that their document will be dozens of pages long. Giuliani says it will be published in the hours after the release of Mueller's report on Russian interference into the 2016 presidential election. The Justice Department says it expects to unveil a redacted version of the 400-page document Thursday. Attorney General Robert Barr last month released a four-page summary of the report and said Mueller did not conclude that Trump's campaign colluded with Russians. He did not rule on whether Trump obstructed justice. Barr and Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein ruled that he did not.

Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump's lawyers are putting the finishing touches on a rebuttal to the forthcoming report by special counsel Robert Mueller. Rudy Giuliani, one of the president's attorneys, said Tuesday that their document will be dozens of pages long. Giuliani says it will be published in the hours after the release of Mueller's report on Russian interference into the 2016 presidential election. The Justice Department says it expects to unveil a redacted version of the 400-page document Thursday. Attorney General Robert Barr last month released a four-page summary of the report and said Mueller did not conclude that Trump's campaign colluded with Russians. He did not rule on whether Trump obstructed justice. Barr and Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein ruled that he did not.Supported by letters Readers discuss the findings, the president’s reaction and what’s next. To the Editor: Re “Mueller Finds No Trump-Russia Conspiracy” (front page, March 25): Let me get this straight: Numerous members of Donald Trump’s campaign and family had contacts and meetings with Russia-connected individuals; they repeatedly lied about and tried to cover this up; Jared Kushner tried to set up a private, unmonitored communication link with the Kremlin; Mr. Trump met alone with Vladimir Putin without any American officials present; and Mr. Trump has repeatedly praised Mr. Putin and attempted to undermine NATO. If there was no fire, as the Mueller report allegedly determined, what was behind all the smoke? Americans deserve to know. Harlan KossonPittsford, N.Y.  To the Editor: Re “A Cloud Over Trump’s Presidency Is Lifted” (news analysis, nytimes.com, March 24): A cloud has not lifted. The special counsel showed a storm of proven criminality surrounding a president and his campaign, delivering 34 indictments that resulted in seven guilty pleas and jail time for top presidential advisers. Among those indicted were Russian intelligence officers and other nationals and three Russian companies. And numerous investigations continue under federal and state prosecutors. These are the results that should be broadcast. By not acknowledging and addressing this, the president makes cleanup messier and further weakens American leadership and its inspirational role in the world. That the president and others consider this a triumph is itself a cloud. Jeffrey AinisAlhambra, Calif. To the Editor: Robert Mueller’s report doesn’t make Donald Trump any less a racist or liar. It doesn’t explain his love for dictators, his disdain for American allies or his contempt for intelligence agencies, the press and confirmed science. It certainly doesn’t make him unimpeachable. In fact, there’s no vindication for Mr. Trump simply because the Mueller report failed to find a Trump-Russia conspiracy. Mr. Trump is still a very real threat to our democracy, and Congress should do everything in its power to stop him. Janis AdlerPortland, Ore. To the Editor: Re “Mueller Demurs So Barr Makes a Key Decision” (front page, March 25): There is much speculation as to why Robert Mueller chose not to reach a conclusion as to whether President Trump committed obstruction of justice but explicitly declined to exonerate him. Allow me to join in that speculation by suggesting that it may have been an extraordinary act of patriotism and self-restraint by this uncommonly heroic and honorable special counsel. He may have recognized that if he found that the president committed obstruction, Attorney General William Barr would have rejected that finding, either because in briefing the attorney general that became clear or because of the attorney general’s known hostility to an obstruction charge from his unsolicited 19-page memorandum to the Justice Department before his appointment. The special counsel may have sought to avoid the divisive consequences of a futile recommendation. If this was the case, it only underscores the wrongfulness of Mr. Barr’s refusal to recuse himself. Sidney RosdeitcherNew YorkThe writer is a lawyer.  To the Editor: The Mueller report is now finished, and I am ready to put it behind us. Yes, there are lots of questions left open and lots of legal proceedings that may occur. But it is now as clear as it’s ever going to be that whatever judgment lapses or foreign intrusions occurred in the 2016 election, there is little evidence that indictable offenses were committed by the president. I think it is time for the president to act presidential — thanking Robert Mueller and the Justice Department for their professionalism, and urging people on all sides to get on with life and the business of governing. Crowing by one party and continued grubbing around in the carcass of the dispute by the other only distract from more important work we have to do.  William R. AndersenSeattleThe writer is a former law professor at the University of Washington Law School. To the Editor: The New York Times, the rest of the hate-Donald Trump media and the Democrats owe President Trump and the country a sincere apology. I, for one, am not holding my breath waiting. Gerald KatzEdwards, Colo. To the Editor: President Trump says the report is “total exoneration.” Now, wouldn’t it be refreshing if he dealt with Russia’s attempt to fiddle with America’s election results? If he is determined to be a real leader, he should be expressing his outrage as an American, and actively seeking ways to punish Russia and to protect the results of future elections. Unfortunately, Donald Trump only recognizes threats to his own reputation. The integrity of our democracy isn’t even on his radar. Howard SchmittGreen Tree, Pa. To the Editor: How can it be concluded that there was no conspiracy between Russia and the Trump campaign given that President Trump was never cross-examined by the investigators, the content of Mr. Trump’s private meetings with Vladimir Putin has never been disclosed, and Mr. Trump’s subordinates, including Paul Manafort and Roger Stone, lied to the investigators? Richard JoffeNew York To the Editor: I strongly suspect that most Republicans, if they are honest with themselves, are more relieved right now than anything else. If they believed President Trump to be capable of colluding with Russia, what does that say about Mr. Trump? What does that say about Republicans? Cyd Joan CheekKnife River, Minn. To the Editor: Attorney General William Barr has incorrectly concluded that an obstruction of justice charge against the president could have no validity absent a finding of an underlying crime. The United States Code’s obstruction statute does not contain that requirement. The statute merely codifies the importance of deterring those who, with wrongful intent, would interfere with the pursuit of justice. Congress will doubtless make its own determination whether the president obstructed justice. William C. IbershofMill Valley, Calif.The writer is a former federal prosecutor. To the Editor: Wouldn’t it be glorious if we had a president who could say: “I’m glad we had this investigation. The results prove that our democracy works.” Instead, Attorney General William Barr’s summary emboldens our would-be tyrant to go after his “enemies.” What a tragedy! Fran KaufmanNew York

Supported by letters Readers discuss the findings, the president’s reaction and what’s next. To the Editor: Re “Mueller Finds No Trump-Russia Conspiracy” (front page, March 25): Let me get this straight: Numerous members of Donald Trump’s campaign and family had contacts and meetings with Russia-connected individuals; they repeatedly lied about and tried to cover this up; Jared Kushner tried to set up a private, unmonitored communication link with the Kremlin; Mr. Trump met alone with Vladimir Putin without any American officials present; and Mr. Trump has repeatedly praised Mr. Putin and attempted to undermine NATO. If there was no fire, as the Mueller report allegedly determined, what was behind all the smoke? Americans deserve to know. Harlan KossonPittsford, N.Y.  To the Editor: Re “A Cloud Over Trump’s Presidency Is Lifted” (news analysis, nytimes.com, March 24): A cloud has not lifted. The special counsel showed a storm of proven criminality surrounding a president and his campaign, delivering 34 indictments that resulted in seven guilty pleas and jail time for top presidential advisers. Among those indicted were Russian intelligence officers and other nationals and three Russian companies. And numerous investigations continue under federal and state prosecutors. These are the results that should be broadcast. By not acknowledging and addressing this, the president makes cleanup messier and further weakens American leadership and its inspirational role in the world. That the president and others consider this a triumph is itself a cloud. Jeffrey AinisAlhambra, Calif. To the Editor: Robert Mueller’s report doesn’t make Donald Trump any less a racist or liar. It doesn’t explain his love for dictators, his disdain for American allies or his contempt for intelligence agencies, the press and confirmed science. It certainly doesn’t make him unimpeachable. In fact, there’s no vindication for Mr. Trump simply because the Mueller report failed to find a Trump-Russia conspiracy. Mr. Trump is still a very real threat to our democracy, and Congress should do everything in its power to stop him. Janis AdlerPortland, Ore. To the Editor: Re “Mueller Demurs So Barr Makes a Key Decision” (front page, March 25): There is much speculation as to why Robert Mueller chose not to reach a conclusion as to whether President Trump committed obstruction of justice but explicitly declined to exonerate him. Allow me to join in that speculation by suggesting that it may have been an extraordinary act of patriotism and self-restraint by this uncommonly heroic and honorable special counsel. He may have recognized that if he found that the president committed obstruction, Attorney General William Barr would have rejected that finding, either because in briefing the attorney general that became clear or because of the attorney general’s known hostility to an obstruction charge from his unsolicited 19-page memorandum to the Justice Department before his appointment. The special counsel may have sought to avoid the divisive consequences of a futile recommendation. If this was the case, it only underscores the wrongfulness of Mr. Barr’s refusal to recuse himself. Sidney RosdeitcherNew YorkThe writer is a lawyer.  To the Editor: The Mueller report is now finished, and I am ready to put it behind us. Yes, there are lots of questions left open and lots of legal proceedings that may occur. But it is now as clear as it’s ever going to be that whatever judgment lapses or foreign intrusions occurred in the 2016 election, there is little evidence that indictable offenses were committed by the president. I think it is time for the president to act presidential — thanking Robert Mueller and the Justice Department for their professionalism, and urging people on all sides to get on with life and the business of governing. Crowing by one party and continued grubbing around in the carcass of the dispute by the other only distract from more important work we have to do.  William R. AndersenSeattleThe writer is a former law professor at the University of Washington Law School. To the Editor: The New York Times, the rest of the hate-Donald Trump media and the Democrats owe President Trump and the country a sincere apology. I, for one, am not holding my breath waiting. Gerald KatzEdwards, Colo. To the Editor: President Trump says the report is “total exoneration.” Now, wouldn’t it be refreshing if he dealt with Russia’s attempt to fiddle with America’s election results? If he is determined to be a real leader, he should be expressing his outrage as an American, and actively seeking ways to punish Russia and to protect the results of future elections. Unfortunately, Donald Trump only recognizes threats to his own reputation. The integrity of our democracy isn’t even on his radar. Howard SchmittGreen Tree, Pa. To the Editor: How can it be concluded that there was no conspiracy between Russia and the Trump campaign given that President Trump was never cross-examined by the investigators, the content of Mr. Trump’s private meetings with Vladimir Putin has never been disclosed, and Mr. Trump’s subordinates, including Paul Manafort and Roger Stone, lied to the investigators? Richard JoffeNew York To the Editor: I strongly suspect that most Republicans, if they are honest with themselves, are more relieved right now than anything else. If they believed President Trump to be capable of colluding with Russia, what does that say about Mr. Trump? What does that say about Republicans? Cyd Joan CheekKnife River, Minn. To the Editor: Attorney General William Barr has incorrectly concluded that an obstruction of justice charge against the president could have no validity absent a finding of an underlying crime. The United States Code’s obstruction statute does not contain that requirement. The statute merely codifies the importance of deterring those who, with wrongful intent, would interfere with the pursuit of justice. Congress will doubtless make its own determination whether the president obstructed justice. William C. IbershofMill Valley, Calif.The writer is a former federal prosecutor. To the Editor: Wouldn’t it be glorious if we had a president who could say: “I’m glad we had this investigation. The results prove that our democracy works.” Instead, Attorney General William Barr’s summary emboldens our would-be tyrant to go after his “enemies.” What a tragedy! Fran KaufmanNew Yorktranscript With Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt And should we abolish the Electoral College? Thursday, March 28th, 2019 michelle goldberg I’m Michelle Goldberg. ross douthat I’m Ross Douthat. david leonhardt I’m David Leonhardt and this is “The Argument.” This week: the Mueller investigation. Did we all blow it out of proportion? ross douthat Yeah I mean, my response is short and sweet: No collusion! Witch hunt! david leonhardt Then, is it finally time to abolish the Electoral College? michelle goldberg And I sort of feel like if you know our country we’re a little bit younger and more vigorous there would have been a regime crisis already. david leonhardt And finally, a recommendation. michelle goldberg And both of those things seem like more valuable than like 99 percent of self-help advice that I can think of. david leonhardt The Mueller investigation is over. news clip The president who had long branded the investigation derisively as a witch hunt is now embracing its conclusion as vindication. david leonhardt Donald Trump’s critics feel let down. Trump himself is feeling vindicated. Which raises the question is the Trump Russia story less of a big deal than Democrats, national security officials, the media and many others have made it out to be? Ross, Michelle and I are going to talk about that. We’re gonna have some sharp disagreements about Mueller today and I hope they will help you clarify your own thoughts. I’m going to go first briefly and answer that question with a, “Yes, but.” I do think the expectations for the Mueller report got a little out of hand, including my own. Based on what we know so far Mueller seems to have found less evidence of a relationship between the Trump campaign and Russia than many people expected. But the caveat is also important which is that Mueller uncovered a lot of criminal and unpatriotic behavior by Trump’s inner circle. And I’m really reluctant to draw final conclusions until we’ve seen the actual Mueller report not the four page summary written by William Barr who is after all a Trump appointee. Michelle why don’t you go next. Are you suffering from Mueller disappointment syndrome? michelle goldberg So it’s not that I’m suffering from Mueller disappointment syndrome. I am absolutely enraged at the way that this is all being spun and covered by much of the media. I mean I just cannot believe what I am watching happening and the amount of gaslighting and misinformation. You know and as you know I kind of objected to this framing for the show, right? I thought that the question should be has Trump been exonerated? With the answer being obviously not. So just to back up, I mean, you guys remember — maybe you remember — a few months ago I said that my feeling about this has always been summarized by the Passover song, “Dayenu,” which means it would have been enough. And that’s really how I feel about Trump being a traitor who should be impeached. So what I hoped for the Mueller Report was not that it would reveal that Trump is even worse than I believe him to be. I did have hope that it would convince Republicans to finally show at least like a modicum of patriotism in forcing them to stand up to him. And obviously that’s not happened and in fact they’ve sort of now doubled down on their misinformation and we’re now in a country where our two competing realities are so dug in and solidified that it almost feels like there’s no way back for us as a nation. But people always said well he might not find conspiracy which is the crime but we can expect that he’ll probably find obstruction. And so it looks like what happened — although we don’t know — is that he released this report. He didn’t find evidence of a crime or at least he didn’t find evidence that rose to the level of being able to prove a crime beyond a reasonable doubt. He found significant evidence of obstruction of justice but decided not to make a traditional prosecutorial judgment, presumably because of the DOJ regulations that say a sitting president can’t be prosecuted. And they spun this so well by kind of releasing this highly tendentious summary written by an attorney general handpicked for the purpose of covering this thing up. They released this thing. He kind of says well I’ve concluded there’s no obstruction of justice. They start screaming, “Exoneration!” Even though the report specifically says it does not exonerate Trump and sort of the whole media has this kind of whiplash and they’re still bullied by the belligerence of the right that they kind of go along with this narrative that none of us have any idea if it’s supported by the underlying documents. ross douthat My response is is short and sweet: No collusion! [LEONHARDT LAUGHS] Witch hunt! That’s all I got. david leonhardt That’s it? ross douthat I’m totally vindicated. michelle goldberg Ross, I am angrier at you than usual today. david leonhardt Ross, I was going to congratulate you on having been somewhat prescient but you’re not really putting me in the mood to congratulate you. ross douthat No collusion! No collusion! Witch hunt! That’s all. Alright, no, I’ll make an argument. So look I wrote a column where I stole an argument from Matt Taibbi who is a sort of left-wing, angry, muckraking gadfly of a journalist who wrote a long piece over the weekend arguing that the way the media covered the Russia controversy — Russiagate, l’affaire russe, whatever you want to call it — was way worse than the way they covered W.M.D. in Iraq. And in channeling this argument I disagreed with it a little bit. I think comparing Russiagate to the W.M.D. controversy sort of founders on the fact that the Russiagate controversy has not actually led us into a war with Russia, happily, whereas the W.M.D. controversy did lead us into an actual mostly disastrous war. But I think the comparison is useful and I think you can see why it’s useful in the way Michelle made her argument. Which is that, you know, after it turned out that there really weren’t any W.M.D. in Iraq and that Saddam Hussein was not actually masterminding a conspiracy with Al Qaeda, people who supported the Iraq War would fall back and say, “Well look, O.K., there weren’t WMD. And Saddam wasn’t in bed with Al Qaeda. But he was a horrible dictator who gassed his own people and was a source of regional instability and there were still all kinds of reasons why he should have been removed from power and why the Iraq War was a good idea.” And that was all fine but it was still the case that there was this huge amount of media coverage and political argument pinning a huge amount of emphasis on these claims that Saddam had W.M.D. and maybe was working with Al Qaeda. And all of that turned out to be false. And in a similar way, yes, of course Michelle is right. There remain all kinds of reasons to think that Donald Trump is a bad person who behaved badly with regard to Russian hacking of Hillary Clinton and that he should not be president. But it remains the case that a huge amount of media attention, statements by former national security officials, by former heads of the intelligence community, endless coverage on MSNBC was all premised on the idea that this was going to end with evidence of serious sustained collaboration of some kind between Trump’s campaign and Russian intelligence. And that’s not true. So it’s a big deal that it’s not true. michelle goldberg So even a lot of the kind of maximalist versions of the Russiagate story which are not just that Trump was actively collaborating but that he was — the other version of that is that he was sort of compromised and being manipulated. And even that version, that he’s compromised and being manipulated, nothing in the Barr letter rules that out at all. In part because being compromised and manipulated is not necessarily a crime that would be part of the counter-intelligence part of this probe, about which we still know basically nothing. The final thing I want to say is that what really reminds me of the Iraq War is that there was such belligerence among pro-war proponents. There was this sort of like concentrated onslaught, it was kind of an information onslaught, although it was pre-social media, that it kind of knocked you off balance. Right? Particularly if you’re a liberal, if you’re the sort of person that always assumes that truth is elusive and that other people might have a point. And I remember, you know, I was in my 20s then feeling discombobulated, right? Like maybe all these people who are so sure are right and that’s what this campaign reminds me of. This like relentless like, “When are you going to apologize?” You know that’s what it feels like. ross douthat But so and I mean I guess, you know, this is — we can’t resolve this perfectly and I do want to say that of course you’re right, that it is completely possible that there is material in the actual Mueller report that will make the Barr letter look like a lawyered up document that concealed some realities. With that being said, I think it’s generally unlikely that Robert Mueller, who knows what’s in his own report, who has known Barr for a long time, and who has shown a perfect willingness to correct the record at various points in the past, would sort of willingly let himself be played in this way. But we’ll see we’ll find out over the next few weeks as the actual report comes out. michelle goldberg Right but what I think is happening or what I think could be happening is not that he’s letting himself be played and that like he doesn’t think that the truth is ever going to come out, but that what the Trump administration is doing is that by getting a head start and sort of setting the terms of the debate early, they’re muddying the waters in a way that people aren’t going to kind of be able to make sense of what comes next. Right? So if Barr weren’t a political hack long experienced in covering up Republican scandals and if he hadn’t been chosen for exactly that reason, then you can imagine a headline in which the story is Mueller didn’t establish crimes related to coordination or conspiracy. He did find significant evidence of other crimes, obstruction. And that evidence, you know kind of in keeping with the precedents of other special counsels, should now be turned over to Congress to be evaluated. Right? Instead sort of he stepped in so that the point is not to kind of convince anybody who is a close follower of this administration that Barr is capable of absolving the president. The point is just to kind of create confusing headlines and give them a talking point. david leonhardt I mean clearly if we’re trying to think about the overall feel that someone who consumed a lot of media would have gotten, yes, I think, I understand you disagree Michelle, but I think that what we know so far suggests that the outcome in the Mueller investigation is going to be less than what people would have thought. On the other hand I don’t think this is a case where when you look back at the reporting that was done by the people actually trying to report this out — people at The New York Times and the Washington Post and a lot of other places — there aren’t a lot of stories that they got wrong here. I think a lot of it was the interpretation. Ross, do you disagree with that? I mean this isn’t like W.M.D. where you can look back and say wow, that story really looks wrong. ross douthat I mean I think the reason that folks like Taibbi and other sort of left-wing critics of the media are so upset is that the locus of really bad reporting was MSNBC. And not so much reporting even as sort of coverage as like the kind of people that Rachel Maddow had on night after night to analyze this. And in that sense it’s understandable that people on the left who were skeptical of this would find it particularly upsetting because MSNBC is supposed to be obviously the left-of-center channel. But I think the worst of it was there and I think that the problems in the mainstream press were more about sort of narrative and omission. It’s not that people were specifically getting things wrong all the time, although there were a lot of cases of you know, the McClatchy report supposedly confirming that Cohen had gone to Prague, and of stories that were sort of hung out there by a single outlet and never confirmed. But in general it was more a sort of tenor issue. It was that there would be tons of reporting about low-level Trump campaign aides’s connections to Russian officials and a lot less reporting about how as time went on, most of what was in the Steele dossier looked more and more bogus, right? That would be my sort of broader press critique. That it was more that when things weren’t panning out there was less coverage than there was of, say, you know Michael Flynn talking to the Russian ambassador and so on. david leonhardt I would say let’s see the Mueller report because I think there’s a chance that although individual stories like the McClatchy story appear to have been wrong, I think there’s a good chance that much of the beat reporting on this is going to look quite solid in the end. But we have to wait and see. Okay now let’s talk about what’s going to happen next. Michelle, where do you see House Democrats going with this and where do you want them to go? michelle goldberg I’m not quite sure where I think they should go because I actually do feel like what we’re seeing so far looks like something of a cover up where Barr is trying to spin this one way and is already sort of seized the narrative and I really want Democrats to set the record straight. I’m glad that they have given him an April 2nd deadline to show them the report. So I do think that they need to agitate and do as much as possible to get the report out there and you know I feel like the line going forward should be, “If this exonerates you then why are you hiding it?” And I think it’s extremely important that the Intelligence Committee not be intimidated out of pursuing the counterintelligence implications of all of that. You know at the same time Democratic candidates have never really wanted to talk about this stuff so from just like a political perspective, it seems to make sense for them to sort of you know let the Judiciary Committee do its job, let the intelligence committee do its job. But you know kind of take the gift-wrapped present that Trump’s Justice Department gave us when it signaled that it wanted the Supreme Court to overturn the entire Affordable Care Act. And you know kind of start running against the very many other depredations that Trump is inflicting on this country. david leonhardt I was struck by that contrast too. I mean the idea that the Trump administration kicked out of the headlines the coverage of Barr’s summary of the Mueller report to try to take away health insurance from people I found to be a remarkable bit of political malpractice. And Ross I assume you agree that the idea of Democrats essentially trying to focus on pocketbook issues and running against Trump as a president who hasn’t improved people’s lives is a much better tactic for Democrats than scandal mongering? And in that way this might not actually have been the worst week for the Democratic Party. ross douthat I totally agree. This was a bad week if you were a Republican who was hoping that there would be a primary challenge to Donald Trump. This sort of removes one of the obvious ways that Trump could sort of fall apart politically. He’s much less likely to fall apart politically, much less likely to face a strong challenger, will be therefore somewhat stronger for re-election, but all of the other ways in which the Democrats have successfully attacked Trump and can successfully attack Trump are still there. I think the health care example which, I mean, I think most conservative policy people and legal people think this challenge is a little bit ridiculous. So it’s a case of Trump doing something that seems sort of purely partisan and doesn’t even have much intellectual heft behind it. But it’s also — the most unpopular things Trump has done have all been in the area of trying to repeal and replace Obamacare. And to the extent that this pushes us towards a health care conversation and away from a Russia conversation, elected Democrats may be very happy that it happened. david leonhardt Let’s end by talking about the 2020 candidates. Ross, you called our attention to this interesting piece written by Tyler Cowen, an economist, arguing about how the Mueller report might affect Joe Biden’s candidacy. So tell the listeners about that. ross douthat I’m not sure if I agree with this but Cowen is a smart guy and he basically argues that Biden is selling himself, presumably, as a sort of custodial candidate. A kind of return to normalcy candidate. You know, his advisers are even talking about the one-term pledge idea that older politicians often think about floating and he’s sort of an embodiment of, you know, the kind of Washington establishment that has always been most upset about Trump as a kind of norm violator and possible Putin cat’s paw. So in all of those ways you could argue that this weakens his candidacy. You know, if you just want to get Trump out because you think Putin is running our foreign policy, then getting Biden in makes more sense. But if it’s ultimately an election about domestic policy and domestic priorities then I think other Democrats maybe have more of a case to make. And the strongest argument for Biden maybe looks a little weaker. david leonhardt And Michelle you get the last word. How do you think the end of the Mueller investigation affects the Democrats in 2020? michelle goldberg I mean I have to say what Ross just said — like you know I’ve been really upset this week, again. Not just because the dream of Trump being led out of the White House in handcuffs has died, although you know that would be a spectacular and life-affirming thing. You know what’s upsetting to me is what I said: that you know Republicans feel so gleeful and emboldened and I think people are sort of lying down on the job of opposing them. But Ross has now presented a true silver lining of this turn of events. Right? Because if this can help end the rationale for Joe Biden’s candidacy before it even begins then I will almost say it was all worth it. david leonhardt And on that note we will end this segment. We’ll be right back. Two of our last three presidents have been elected despite losing the popular vote. And in Trump’s case he lost it by a lot. We are living in an era of minority rule, as Michelle has written. So last week Senator Elizabeth Warren called for an end to the electoral college. senator elizabeth warren Get rid of the electoral college. [CHEERS]. david leonhardt Her call has ignited a long simmering debate about it. Ross, you get to go first in this discussion. Tell us why you hate democracy and love the Electoral College. ross douthat Well, so, we just did a segment where I was you know full of my own self-righteousness and totally, totally convinced of all the arguments I was making and this one is going to be a little different. I’m not a strong devout believer in the Electoral College. I think it’s obviously a kind of jerry-rigged system that doesn’t do exactly what its original designers intended. And it certainly isn’t how I would design a system from scratch. At the same time the sort of scale of liberal certainty about getting rid of it inspires me to mount at least partial defenses. So I guess I’d just make a couple of points. The first is that it’s hardly abnormal to have political systems that deliver various forms of minority rule. It’s quite common in parliamentary systems to end up with minority prime ministers and minority government. So the way we get there and the U.S. is unique in our own you know American distinctive kind of way, but it’s hardly unknown in the developed world to have minority governments end up elected for one reason or the other. And — and this is my more counterintuitive point — I don’t think it’s actually the worst thing to have a system that basically tells you if you get to 50.1 percent of the vote you aren’t actually guaranteed of winning. And the way you guarantee victory is by getting to 53 or 54 or 55 percent of the vote. I think that that kind of system incentivizes parties against polarized politics. It creates an incentive against the kind of politics that we’ve had increasingly in our country and I think historically that’s how it’s worked. Now we haven’t come out of our current era of polarization which is why we keep having these outcomes and I think in the long run if we can’t get out of it then the Electoral College does become a pathway to constitutional crisis. But I think historically it’s actually worked in a more interesting way than some of its critics think. michelle goldberg I mean to me the Electoral College is intolerable just because it has given us two minority presidents within a very short period of time after many, many decades when the idea of somebody winning the presidency despite losing the popular vote was treated as this sort of like outré hypothetical that could possibly happen, but you know nobody living had ever seen it. And now it’s just a reality and it’s a reality that Trump could win re-election despite losing the popular vote by even more. And at a certain point if the majority of the country believes that their government is intolerable and can do nothing about it and can do nothing about the system that creates that outcome. I mean it’s a recipe for regime crisis and I sort of feel like if you know our country we’re a little bit younger and more vigorous there would have been a regime crisis already. ross douthat I mean I, this is, again, where I’m not making any kind of absolutist argument. I think if you get outcomes like 2016 and 2000 over and over again it does, it will ultimately lead to regime crisis. But I also think when we talk about polarization, the polarization that we’re experiencing is a distinctive somewhat unique thing in American history. The Electoral College has been around for more than 200 years. We have therefore hundreds of years of data on how it usually works. And my argument is just that historically what happens is you have brief periods of ideological or regional polarization and then you might say that the College creates incentives for parties to try and get out of them quickly because, as you say, the Democrats right now are looking at a situation where they could win the popular vote again and still lose to Trump. And that should, in my theory, create an incentive for Democrats to work harder to get towards Reaganesque or Rooseveltian majorities which is what our country actually needs to escape the cycle of polarization. david leonhardt I want to talk about one of those defenses that drives me nuts which is the idea that if you say we should get rid of the electoral college you’re saying that rural people don’t matter. Whereas all you’re saying is that all Americans should be treated equally. I’m not saying that people in Wyoming or Alaska or Vermont matter less than people in Texas or California. I’m just saying they should all matter equally. And I guess, Ross, I’m curious, as a partial defender of the Electoral College, is there some more serious version of that argument that I’m missing? I just don’t get it. ross douthat Well I think the version of the argument that I agree with is that it’s good in the system to have means by which distinctive minorities, political minorities can find political leverage without having to get to 51 or 52 percent of the vote in a national election. I don’t think a system where the 51 percent always win and the 49 percent always lose has some perfect legitimacy just because 51 percent is bigger than 49 percent. But I think that’s actually more a defense of the Senate than the Electoral College. I would defend the Senate more on those grounds. I think it’s good to create leverage points for regional, rural and so on populations that can end up neglected as I think a portion of the American population in the Midwest and Greater Appalachia has been neglected over the last 20 years. But I think the Senate does that more effectively than the Electoral College does and so that kind of leverage would survive even if you move to a popular vote. I want to ask you guys though to design your perfect system. Because the question isn’t just whether you get rid of the Electoral College, right, it’s what replaces it? How do you elect a president? david leonhardt I guess I am comfortable with a national popular vote. I understand there are risks of some sort of massive national recount that are are nightmarish. And I think it’s worth taking that seriously. So I’d be open to some sort of more proportional state based system where we get a lot closer to popular vote. But I really think that the downsides of the Electoral College absolutely swamp the downsides of a national popular vote system. ross douthat But then it’s a national popular vote with or without a runoff? david leonhardt I mean, as we’ve talked about, I’m a big fan of this idea of ranked-choice voting. So I don’t think I would do a runoff. I’m perfectly comfortable with the idea of, you vote once. You rank your candidates and if you ranked a third party candidate first then then you go to your vote next. michelle goldberg Yeah I agree. That’s I mean to be honest I haven’t given this a huge amount of thought. I mean basically I just think you should get rid of the Electoral College and have a national popular vote. But the mechanism of that vote is not something I thought about a lot. But, you know, I’m a big fan like David of ranked-choice voting in congressional elections or in state elections. Like Maine has adopted it. I think more states should adopt it. And so I can’t think of an argument against using that at the national level. ross douthat Well I mean I’m not wildly against that idea but I think every idea that you come up with creates potential downside. One thing the Electoral College definitely does is make it very hard for a third-party challenger to really challenge for the presidency unless they have a sort of concentrated regional support. Like Ross Perot, the last really successful third-party candidate, really didn’t get any electoral votes. michelle goldberg Wait but Ross, you like third parties! ross douthat No I’m not — I’m just playing around here a little bit. Right? No, I don’t think that would be so terrible but it would create a situation where someone like Howard Schultz, who neither of you guys particularly like right now, has more of an incentive to get in and help make Donald Trump president, maybe, than he would under the Electoral College system. I mean it’s the “Green Book” problem. At last I get to make an Oscar analogy, right? “Green Book” won best picture despite being, I think by general agreement, a kind of mediocre movie because nobody really hated it and people ranked it pretty high on their ranked-choice voting. But probably at least one other and maybe many other movies got more number one votes for best picture but they still lost to “Green Book.” So the ranked choice system delivers you the inoffensive president who people dislike the least, potentially, while denying the nomination to someone who maybe gets the actual most votes. And maybe that’s fine. But it is a change. michelle goldberg O.K. So that’s worth thinking through and I actually find the “Green Book” possibility very scary and persuasive. It still sounds better to me to have a system in which the sort of “meh” candidate has a chance of winning than a candidate that is virulently hated by a majority of the population. ross douthat Yeah I mean I think what’s definitely true is that the Electoral College was supposed to create impediments basically to demagogues. Right? michelle goldberg Right — the electoral college was supposed to stop people like Trump. And in that respect it’s obviously failed. ross douthat Yes. And the Electoral College in that sense also makes more sense in a system with stronger political parties, which we no longer have. I think that Trump himself, the fact that he could win despite the Electoral College, does show that it’s not doing one of the jobs the founders envisioned for it. At the same time, I think Hillary Clinton deserved to lose the last election because of how she campaigned. So I can’t help feeling that Trump’s election also makes a kind of case for the Electoral College in this strange way. david leonhardt To me one of the most exciting things about getting rid of the Electoral College would be all of the places that have been wholly ignored during presidential campaigns that no longer would be. I mean our colleague Jamelle Bouie pointed out that inland California, a place with huge numbers of conservative voters almost totally ignored in presidential campaigns, would no longer be. Or big cities in Texas where there are a lot of Democratic voters. It would basically take all these people who’ve been left out of the process and and involve them again. And that’s why the idea excites me. ross douthat I mean I guess that argument to me makes more sense if we were living through an era of sort of massive political disengagement where nobody’s voting and voter turnout is falling and so on and that doesn’t seem to overall be the kind of era we’re necessarily living through, right? Like I feel like the case for a constitutional amendment to make sure that you get slightly higher turnout in rural California is not the decisive case in the way that that regime crisis case seems to me to be the much stronger case. david leonhardt I mean yes and no. Voter turnout rates among people under the age of 30 or 40 or pretty horrifically low. And so if a 25-year-old living in the inland empire of California or living in Dallas said to me, my vote doesn’t matter at all, there’s a way in which they’re right about that. And so to me the idea of making people feel like we have a more responsive political system has some inherent value to it. This could actually happen. A whole bunch of states, including California and New York, have passed laws saying they will devote their Electoral College votes to the winner of the popular vote so long as enough states do so. And in fact if you count it up we’re two thirds of the way toward having that actually happen. If a Republican were to lose when winning the popular vote and a few Republican states were to pass this legislation, I think we’re actually closer to the Electoral College not functionally mattering than a lot of people realize. So it’s a good time to dig into the upsides and downsides of it. That will do it for our Electoral College discussion. We’ll be right back with our weekly recommendation. Now it’s time for our weekly recommendation, when we give you a suggestion that is meant to take your mind off of politics. This week it’s my turn and I am going to make a recommendation that is borne out of sadness, unfortunately. An economist by the name of Alan Krueger recently committed suicide at the age of 58. He was an enormously important and influential economist. I knew Alan somewhat. I’d interviewed him many times. And one of his areas of research was happiness. What makes human beings happy. And I once asked him when I was interviewing him whether any of the research he had done had affected his own view about what to do. And he gave me two pieces of really lovely and obviously quite poignant, in retrospect, pieces of advice. And I just wanted to share them. The first is he said that the data shows that hanging out with friends really makes people happy in a way that nothing else does. In a way that work doesn’t, even in a way that hanging out with relatives doesn’t. And so he took that and said even at the end of a long day or long week when he was tired, if he was debating whether to go to a party or whether to do something with friends, even if in the moment he didn’t want to do it, the data tried to push him to do it more often. And the second piece of advice, which is something that I find myself following all the time now, is he said that people don’t really value objects that they get as gifts. They appreciate the thought but the object usually isn’t that useful to them. But they do really value experiences. And so it would make sense to kind of nudge our gifts a little bit more toward giving people experiences. You can take someone out for coffee. You can take them out to dinner. The story Alan told me is he splurged and he took his dad to a Super Bowl to watch his dad’s beloved New York Giants, and then he got a souvenir from the game framed and hung it in his office so he could look at it all the time. And I think about that a lot. And I already miss Allen and am shocked and saddened by his death as nearly the entire world of economics is. So I just wanted to share that a little bit, those two little bits of wisdom from him with the two of you and with all of our listeners. michelle goldberg Yeah I mean I know a lot of people who knew him and you know, yes everybody is shocked and heartbroken. And you know even me as a non-economist kind of knew how important and significant his work was. And both of those things that you said seem like actually more valuable than like 99 percent of self-help advice that I can think of. david leonhardt And 99 percent of economics. michelle goldberg Oh yeah, definitely. ross douthat I just took my family, my wife and three kids, we flew to Colorado to see some relatives who were moving back east and therefore won’t be in Colorado for much longer. And it was one of the worst travel experiences I’ve had because we were delayed by the bomb cyclone snowstorm that went off in Denver and then we were moved to a non-direct flight and our seats weren’t together. And when you have a three-year-old and your seats aren’t together and you’re running to catch a connection it’s a total nightmare. But the truth is that, you know, at the end of the day we’re back on the East Coast and I think the memories from the trip will either be happy ones or sort of bemused rueful entertaining ones from the disastrous travel. And in that sense it’s a sort of personal case study in David’s point, that doing things with friends or family, however challenging they may be, are essential to what makes not just life worth living but memory worth having. speaker That’s a good place to leave our show this week. As always we would like to hear your feedback. You can leave us a voicemail at 347-915-4324. That’s 347-915-4324, and we may play you on the show. You can also email us at argument@nytimes.com. If you like what you hear please do leave us a rating or review an Apple Podcasts. This week’s show was produced, as it always is by Alex Loughlin for transmitter media and edited by Lisa Roberts our executive producer is Gretta Cohen. We had help from Tyson Evans. Phoebe let Ian Persaud Philbrick and Francis Yang. Our theme was composed by Allison Layton Brown thank you for listening. We’ll see you back here next week. Maybe the next segment should be like are we actually living in a simulation gone. Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device:  Apple Podcasts | Spotify | Google Play | RadioPublic | Stitcher The end of Robert Mueller’s investigation into possible ties between President Trump’s campaign and the Russian government has left some liberals disappointed. This week on “The Argument,” Michelle Goldberg thinks Attorney General William Barr’s letter to Congress was crafted to obscure Mueller’s findings and help the president. Ross Douthat accuses the media of overselling the magnitude of the scandal. And David Leonhardt wants to see the actual Mueller report — not just Barr’s summary of it — before drawing too many conclusions about what it means for Trump. Then, is it time to get rid of the Electoral College? The columnists debate a proposal to change America’s election process that recently resurfaced on the 2020 campaign trail. Finally, David passes along two pieces of advice on how to live a happier life from a renowned economist who left us too soon. [If you are having thoughts of suicide, call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-8255 (TALK). You can find a list of additional resources at SpeakingOfSuicide.com/resources.] Background Reading: Ross on the political establishment’s Russia panic and the case for the Electoral College Michelle on what we still don’t know about Trump and Russia and minority rule David on William Barr’s letter to Congress, the unanswered questions it raises and Trump’s unfitness for office “It’s Official: Russiagate Is This Generation’s W.M.D.” (Matt Taibbi) “The Winners and Losers of the Mueller Revelations” (Tyler Cowen) I’ve been an Op-Ed columnist since 2009, and I write about politics, religion, pop culture, sociology and the places where they all intersect. I’m a Catholic and a conservative, in that order, which means that I’m against abortion and critical of the sexual revolution, but I tend to agree with liberals that the Republican Party is too friendly to the rich. I was against Donald Trump in 2016 for reasons specific to Donald Trump, but in general I think the populist movements in Europe and America have legitimate grievances and I often prefer the populists to the “reasonable” elites. I’ve written books about Harvard, the G.O.P., American Christianity and Pope Francis; I’m working on one about decadence. Benedict XVI was my favorite pope. I review movies for National Review and have strong opinions about many prestige television shows. I have three small children, two girls and a boy, and I live in New Haven with my wife. I’ve been an Op-Ed columnist at The New York Times since 2017, writing mainly about politics, ideology and gender. These days people on the right and the left both use “liberal” as an epithet, but that’s basically what I am, though the nightmare of Donald Trump’s presidency has radicalized me and pushed me leftward. I’ve written three books, including one, in 2006, about the danger of right-wing populism in its religious fundamentalist guise. (My other two were about the global battle over reproductive rights and, in a brief detour from politics, about an adventurous Russian émigré who helped bring yoga to the West.) I love to travel; a long time ago, after my husband and I eloped, we spent a year backpacking through Asia. Now we live in Brooklyn with our son and daughter. I’ve worked at The Times since 1999 and have been an Op-Ed columnist since 2016. I caught the journalism bug a very long time ago — first as a little kid in the late 1970s who loved reading the Boston Globe sports section and later as a teenager working on my high school and college newspapers. I discovered that when my classmates and I put a complaint in print, for everyone to see, school administrators actually paid attention. I’ve since worked as a metro reporter at The Washington Post and a writer at BusinessWeek magazine. At The Times, I started as a reporter in the business section and have also been a Times Magazine staff writer, the Washington bureau chief and the founding editor of The Upshot. My politics are left of center. But I’m also to the right of many Times readers. I think education reform has accomplished a lot. I think two-parent families are good for society. I think progressives should be realistic about the cultural conservatism that dominates much of this country. Most of all, however, I worry deeply about today’s Republican Party, which has become dangerously extreme. This country faces some huge challenges — inequality, climate change, the rise of China — and they’ll be very hard to solve without having both parties committed to the basic functioning of American democracy. Tune in on iTunes, Google Play, Spotify, Stitcher or wherever you listen to podcasts. Tell us what you think at argument@nytimes.com. Follow Michelle Goldberg (@michelleinbklyn), Ross Douthat (@DouthatNYT) and David Leonhardt (@DLeonhardt) on Twitter.  This week’s show is produced by Alex Laughlin for Transmitter Media and edited by Lacy Roberts. Our executive producer is Gretta Cohn. We had help from Tyson Evans, Phoebe Lett and Ian Prasad Philbrick. Our theme is composed by Allison Leyton-Brown.

transcript With Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt And should we abolish the Electoral College? Thursday, March 28th, 2019 michelle goldberg I’m Michelle Goldberg. ross douthat I’m Ross Douthat. david leonhardt I’m David Leonhardt and this is “The Argument.” This week: the Mueller investigation. Did we all blow it out of proportion? ross douthat Yeah I mean, my response is short and sweet: No collusion! Witch hunt! david leonhardt Then, is it finally time to abolish the Electoral College? michelle goldberg And I sort of feel like if you know our country we’re a little bit younger and more vigorous there would have been a regime crisis already. david leonhardt And finally, a recommendation. michelle goldberg And both of those things seem like more valuable than like 99 percent of self-help advice that I can think of. david leonhardt The Mueller investigation is over. news clip The president who had long branded the investigation derisively as a witch hunt is now embracing its conclusion as vindication. david leonhardt Donald Trump’s critics feel let down. Trump himself is feeling vindicated. Which raises the question is the Trump Russia story less of a big deal than Democrats, national security officials, the media and many others have made it out to be? Ross, Michelle and I are going to talk about that. We’re gonna have some sharp disagreements about Mueller today and I hope they will help you clarify your own thoughts. I’m going to go first briefly and answer that question with a, “Yes, but.” I do think the expectations for the Mueller report got a little out of hand, including my own. Based on what we know so far Mueller seems to have found less evidence of a relationship between the Trump campaign and Russia than many people expected. But the caveat is also important which is that Mueller uncovered a lot of criminal and unpatriotic behavior by Trump’s inner circle. And I’m really reluctant to draw final conclusions until we’ve seen the actual Mueller report not the four page summary written by William Barr who is after all a Trump appointee. Michelle why don’t you go next. Are you suffering from Mueller disappointment syndrome? michelle goldberg So it’s not that I’m suffering from Mueller disappointment syndrome. I am absolutely enraged at the way that this is all being spun and covered by much of the media. I mean I just cannot believe what I am watching happening and the amount of gaslighting and misinformation. You know and as you know I kind of objected to this framing for the show, right? I thought that the question should be has Trump been exonerated? With the answer being obviously not. So just to back up, I mean, you guys remember — maybe you remember — a few months ago I said that my feeling about this has always been summarized by the Passover song, “Dayenu,” which means it would have been enough. And that’s really how I feel about Trump being a traitor who should be impeached. So what I hoped for the Mueller Report was not that it would reveal that Trump is even worse than I believe him to be. I did have hope that it would convince Republicans to finally show at least like a modicum of patriotism in forcing them to stand up to him. And obviously that’s not happened and in fact they’ve sort of now doubled down on their misinformation and we’re now in a country where our two competing realities are so dug in and solidified that it almost feels like there’s no way back for us as a nation. But people always said well he might not find conspiracy which is the crime but we can expect that he’ll probably find obstruction. And so it looks like what happened — although we don’t know — is that he released this report. He didn’t find evidence of a crime or at least he didn’t find evidence that rose to the level of being able to prove a crime beyond a reasonable doubt. He found significant evidence of obstruction of justice but decided not to make a traditional prosecutorial judgment, presumably because of the DOJ regulations that say a sitting president can’t be prosecuted. And they spun this so well by kind of releasing this highly tendentious summary written by an attorney general handpicked for the purpose of covering this thing up. They released this thing. He kind of says well I’ve concluded there’s no obstruction of justice. They start screaming, “Exoneration!” Even though the report specifically says it does not exonerate Trump and sort of the whole media has this kind of whiplash and they’re still bullied by the belligerence of the right that they kind of go along with this narrative that none of us have any idea if it’s supported by the underlying documents. ross douthat My response is is short and sweet: No collusion! [LEONHARDT LAUGHS] Witch hunt! That’s all I got. david leonhardt That’s it? ross douthat I’m totally vindicated. michelle goldberg Ross, I am angrier at you than usual today. david leonhardt Ross, I was going to congratulate you on having been somewhat prescient but you’re not really putting me in the mood to congratulate you. ross douthat No collusion! No collusion! Witch hunt! That’s all. Alright, no, I’ll make an argument. So look I wrote a column where I stole an argument from Matt Taibbi who is a sort of left-wing, angry, muckraking gadfly of a journalist who wrote a long piece over the weekend arguing that the way the media covered the Russia controversy — Russiagate, l’affaire russe, whatever you want to call it — was way worse than the way they covered W.M.D. in Iraq. And in channeling this argument I disagreed with it a little bit. I think comparing Russiagate to the W.M.D. controversy sort of founders on the fact that the Russiagate controversy has not actually led us into a war with Russia, happily, whereas the W.M.D. controversy did lead us into an actual mostly disastrous war. But I think the comparison is useful and I think you can see why it’s useful in the way Michelle made her argument. Which is that, you know, after it turned out that there really weren’t any W.M.D. in Iraq and that Saddam Hussein was not actually masterminding a conspiracy with Al Qaeda, people who supported the Iraq War would fall back and say, “Well look, O.K., there weren’t WMD. And Saddam wasn’t in bed with Al Qaeda. But he was a horrible dictator who gassed his own people and was a source of regional instability and there were still all kinds of reasons why he should have been removed from power and why the Iraq War was a good idea.” And that was all fine but it was still the case that there was this huge amount of media coverage and political argument pinning a huge amount of emphasis on these claims that Saddam had W.M.D. and maybe was working with Al Qaeda. And all of that turned out to be false. And in a similar way, yes, of course Michelle is right. There remain all kinds of reasons to think that Donald Trump is a bad person who behaved badly with regard to Russian hacking of Hillary Clinton and that he should not be president. But it remains the case that a huge amount of media attention, statements by former national security officials, by former heads of the intelligence community, endless coverage on MSNBC was all premised on the idea that this was going to end with evidence of serious sustained collaboration of some kind between Trump’s campaign and Russian intelligence. And that’s not true. So it’s a big deal that it’s not true. michelle goldberg So even a lot of the kind of maximalist versions of the Russiagate story which are not just that Trump was actively collaborating but that he was — the other version of that is that he was sort of compromised and being manipulated. And even that version, that he’s compromised and being manipulated, nothing in the Barr letter rules that out at all. In part because being compromised and manipulated is not necessarily a crime that would be part of the counter-intelligence part of this probe, about which we still know basically nothing. The final thing I want to say is that what really reminds me of the Iraq War is that there was such belligerence among pro-war proponents. There was this sort of like concentrated onslaught, it was kind of an information onslaught, although it was pre-social media, that it kind of knocked you off balance. Right? Particularly if you’re a liberal, if you’re the sort of person that always assumes that truth is elusive and that other people might have a point. And I remember, you know, I was in my 20s then feeling discombobulated, right? Like maybe all these people who are so sure are right and that’s what this campaign reminds me of. This like relentless like, “When are you going to apologize?” You know that’s what it feels like. ross douthat But so and I mean I guess, you know, this is — we can’t resolve this perfectly and I do want to say that of course you’re right, that it is completely possible that there is material in the actual Mueller report that will make the Barr letter look like a lawyered up document that concealed some realities. With that being said, I think it’s generally unlikely that Robert Mueller, who knows what’s in his own report, who has known Barr for a long time, and who has shown a perfect willingness to correct the record at various points in the past, would sort of willingly let himself be played in this way. But we’ll see we’ll find out over the next few weeks as the actual report comes out. michelle goldberg Right but what I think is happening or what I think could be happening is not that he’s letting himself be played and that like he doesn’t think that the truth is ever going to come out, but that what the Trump administration is doing is that by getting a head start and sort of setting the terms of the debate early, they’re muddying the waters in a way that people aren’t going to kind of be able to make sense of what comes next. Right? So if Barr weren’t a political hack long experienced in covering up Republican scandals and if he hadn’t been chosen for exactly that reason, then you can imagine a headline in which the story is Mueller didn’t establish crimes related to coordination or conspiracy. He did find significant evidence of other crimes, obstruction. And that evidence, you know kind of in keeping with the precedents of other special counsels, should now be turned over to Congress to be evaluated. Right? Instead sort of he stepped in so that the point is not to kind of convince anybody who is a close follower of this administration that Barr is capable of absolving the president. The point is just to kind of create confusing headlines and give them a talking point. david leonhardt I mean clearly if we’re trying to think about the overall feel that someone who consumed a lot of media would have gotten, yes, I think, I understand you disagree Michelle, but I think that what we know so far suggests that the outcome in the Mueller investigation is going to be less than what people would have thought. On the other hand I don’t think this is a case where when you look back at the reporting that was done by the people actually trying to report this out — people at The New York Times and the Washington Post and a lot of other places — there aren’t a lot of stories that they got wrong here. I think a lot of it was the interpretation. Ross, do you disagree with that? I mean this isn’t like W.M.D. where you can look back and say wow, that story really looks wrong. ross douthat I mean I think the reason that folks like Taibbi and other sort of left-wing critics of the media are so upset is that the locus of really bad reporting was MSNBC. And not so much reporting even as sort of coverage as like the kind of people that Rachel Maddow had on night after night to analyze this. And in that sense it’s understandable that people on the left who were skeptical of this would find it particularly upsetting because MSNBC is supposed to be obviously the left-of-center channel. But I think the worst of it was there and I think that the problems in the mainstream press were more about sort of narrative and omission. It’s not that people were specifically getting things wrong all the time, although there were a lot of cases of you know, the McClatchy report supposedly confirming that Cohen had gone to Prague, and of stories that were sort of hung out there by a single outlet and never confirmed. But in general it was more a sort of tenor issue. It was that there would be tons of reporting about low-level Trump campaign aides’s connections to Russian officials and a lot less reporting about how as time went on, most of what was in the Steele dossier looked more and more bogus, right? That would be my sort of broader press critique. That it was more that when things weren’t panning out there was less coverage than there was of, say, you know Michael Flynn talking to the Russian ambassador and so on. david leonhardt I would say let’s see the Mueller report because I think there’s a chance that although individual stories like the McClatchy story appear to have been wrong, I think there’s a good chance that much of the beat reporting on this is going to look quite solid in the end. But we have to wait and see. Okay now let’s talk about what’s going to happen next. Michelle, where do you see House Democrats going with this and where do you want them to go? michelle goldberg I’m not quite sure where I think they should go because I actually do feel like what we’re seeing so far looks like something of a cover up where Barr is trying to spin this one way and is already sort of seized the narrative and I really want Democrats to set the record straight. I’m glad that they have given him an April 2nd deadline to show them the report. So I do think that they need to agitate and do as much as possible to get the report out there and you know I feel like the line going forward should be, “If this exonerates you then why are you hiding it?” And I think it’s extremely important that the Intelligence Committee not be intimidated out of pursuing the counterintelligence implications of all of that. You know at the same time Democratic candidates have never really wanted to talk about this stuff so from just like a political perspective, it seems to make sense for them to sort of you know let the Judiciary Committee do its job, let the intelligence committee do its job. But you know kind of take the gift-wrapped present that Trump’s Justice Department gave us when it signaled that it wanted the Supreme Court to overturn the entire Affordable Care Act. And you know kind of start running against the very many other depredations that Trump is inflicting on this country. david leonhardt I was struck by that contrast too. I mean the idea that the Trump administration kicked out of the headlines the coverage of Barr’s summary of the Mueller report to try to take away health insurance from people I found to be a remarkable bit of political malpractice. And Ross I assume you agree that the idea of Democrats essentially trying to focus on pocketbook issues and running against Trump as a president who hasn’t improved people’s lives is a much better tactic for Democrats than scandal mongering? And in that way this might not actually have been the worst week for the Democratic Party. ross douthat I totally agree. This was a bad week if you were a Republican who was hoping that there would be a primary challenge to Donald Trump. This sort of removes one of the obvious ways that Trump could sort of fall apart politically. He’s much less likely to fall apart politically, much less likely to face a strong challenger, will be therefore somewhat stronger for re-election, but all of the other ways in which the Democrats have successfully attacked Trump and can successfully attack Trump are still there. I think the health care example which, I mean, I think most conservative policy people and legal people think this challenge is a little bit ridiculous. So it’s a case of Trump doing something that seems sort of purely partisan and doesn’t even have much intellectual heft behind it. But it’s also — the most unpopular things Trump has done have all been in the area of trying to repeal and replace Obamacare. And to the extent that this pushes us towards a health care conversation and away from a Russia conversation, elected Democrats may be very happy that it happened. david leonhardt Let’s end by talking about the 2020 candidates. Ross, you called our attention to this interesting piece written by Tyler Cowen, an economist, arguing about how the Mueller report might affect Joe Biden’s candidacy. So tell the listeners about that. ross douthat I’m not sure if I agree with this but Cowen is a smart guy and he basically argues that Biden is selling himself, presumably, as a sort of custodial candidate. A kind of return to normalcy candidate. You know, his advisers are even talking about the one-term pledge idea that older politicians often think about floating and he’s sort of an embodiment of, you know, the kind of Washington establishment that has always been most upset about Trump as a kind of norm violator and possible Putin cat’s paw. So in all of those ways you could argue that this weakens his candidacy. You know, if you just want to get Trump out because you think Putin is running our foreign policy, then getting Biden in makes more sense. But if it’s ultimately an election about domestic policy and domestic priorities then I think other Democrats maybe have more of a case to make. And the strongest argument for Biden maybe looks a little weaker. david leonhardt And Michelle you get the last word. How do you think the end of the Mueller investigation affects the Democrats in 2020? michelle goldberg I mean I have to say what Ross just said — like you know I’ve been really upset this week, again. Not just because the dream of Trump being led out of the White House in handcuffs has died, although you know that would be a spectacular and life-affirming thing. You know what’s upsetting to me is what I said: that you know Republicans feel so gleeful and emboldened and I think people are sort of lying down on the job of opposing them. But Ross has now presented a true silver lining of this turn of events. Right? Because if this can help end the rationale for Joe Biden’s candidacy before it even begins then I will almost say it was all worth it. david leonhardt And on that note we will end this segment. We’ll be right back. Two of our last three presidents have been elected despite losing the popular vote. And in Trump’s case he lost it by a lot. We are living in an era of minority rule, as Michelle has written. So last week Senator Elizabeth Warren called for an end to the electoral college. senator elizabeth warren Get rid of the electoral college. [CHEERS]. david leonhardt Her call has ignited a long simmering debate about it. Ross, you get to go first in this discussion. Tell us why you hate democracy and love the Electoral College. ross douthat Well, so, we just did a segment where I was you know full of my own self-righteousness and totally, totally convinced of all the arguments I was making and this one is going to be a little different. I’m not a strong devout believer in the Electoral College. I think it’s obviously a kind of jerry-rigged system that doesn’t do exactly what its original designers intended. And it certainly isn’t how I would design a system from scratch. At the same time the sort of scale of liberal certainty about getting rid of it inspires me to mount at least partial defenses. So I guess I’d just make a couple of points. The first is that it’s hardly abnormal to have political systems that deliver various forms of minority rule. It’s quite common in parliamentary systems to end up with minority prime ministers and minority government. So the way we get there and the U.S. is unique in our own you know American distinctive kind of way, but it’s hardly unknown in the developed world to have minority governments end up elected for one reason or the other. And — and this is my more counterintuitive point — I don’t think it’s actually the worst thing to have a system that basically tells you if you get to 50.1 percent of the vote you aren’t actually guaranteed of winning. And the way you guarantee victory is by getting to 53 or 54 or 55 percent of the vote. I think that that kind of system incentivizes parties against polarized politics. It creates an incentive against the kind of politics that we’ve had increasingly in our country and I think historically that’s how it’s worked. Now we haven’t come out of our current era of polarization which is why we keep having these outcomes and I think in the long run if we can’t get out of it then the Electoral College does become a pathway to constitutional crisis. But I think historically it’s actually worked in a more interesting way than some of its critics think. michelle goldberg I mean to me the Electoral College is intolerable just because it has given us two minority presidents within a very short period of time after many, many decades when the idea of somebody winning the presidency despite losing the popular vote was treated as this sort of like outré hypothetical that could possibly happen, but you know nobody living had ever seen it. And now it’s just a reality and it’s a reality that Trump could win re-election despite losing the popular vote by even more. And at a certain point if the majority of the country believes that their government is intolerable and can do nothing about it and can do nothing about the system that creates that outcome. I mean it’s a recipe for regime crisis and I sort of feel like if you know our country we’re a little bit younger and more vigorous there would have been a regime crisis already. ross douthat I mean I, this is, again, where I’m not making any kind of absolutist argument. I think if you get outcomes like 2016 and 2000 over and over again it does, it will ultimately lead to regime crisis. But I also think when we talk about polarization, the polarization that we’re experiencing is a distinctive somewhat unique thing in American history. The Electoral College has been around for more than 200 years. We have therefore hundreds of years of data on how it usually works. And my argument is just that historically what happens is you have brief periods of ideological or regional polarization and then you might say that the College creates incentives for parties to try and get out of them quickly because, as you say, the Democrats right now are looking at a situation where they could win the popular vote again and still lose to Trump. And that should, in my theory, create an incentive for Democrats to work harder to get towards Reaganesque or Rooseveltian majorities which is what our country actually needs to escape the cycle of polarization. david leonhardt I want to talk about one of those defenses that drives me nuts which is the idea that if you say we should get rid of the electoral college you’re saying that rural people don’t matter. Whereas all you’re saying is that all Americans should be treated equally. I’m not saying that people in Wyoming or Alaska or Vermont matter less than people in Texas or California. I’m just saying they should all matter equally. And I guess, Ross, I’m curious, as a partial defender of the Electoral College, is there some more serious version of that argument that I’m missing? I just don’t get it. ross douthat Well I think the version of the argument that I agree with is that it’s good in the system to have means by which distinctive minorities, political minorities can find political leverage without having to get to 51 or 52 percent of the vote in a national election. I don’t think a system where the 51 percent always win and the 49 percent always lose has some perfect legitimacy just because 51 percent is bigger than 49 percent. But I think that’s actually more a defense of the Senate than the Electoral College. I would defend the Senate more on those grounds. I think it’s good to create leverage points for regional, rural and so on populations that can end up neglected as I think a portion of the American population in the Midwest and Greater Appalachia has been neglected over the last 20 years. But I think the Senate does that more effectively than the Electoral College does and so that kind of leverage would survive even if you move to a popular vote. I want to ask you guys though to design your perfect system. Because the question isn’t just whether you get rid of the Electoral College, right, it’s what replaces it? How do you elect a president? david leonhardt I guess I am comfortable with a national popular vote. I understand there are risks of some sort of massive national recount that are are nightmarish. And I think it’s worth taking that seriously. So I’d be open to some sort of more proportional state based system where we get a lot closer to popular vote. But I really think that the downsides of the Electoral College absolutely swamp the downsides of a national popular vote system. ross douthat But then it’s a national popular vote with or without a runoff? david leonhardt I mean, as we’ve talked about, I’m a big fan of this idea of ranked-choice voting. So I don’t think I would do a runoff. I’m perfectly comfortable with the idea of, you vote once. You rank your candidates and if you ranked a third party candidate first then then you go to your vote next. michelle goldberg Yeah I agree. That’s I mean to be honest I haven’t given this a huge amount of thought. I mean basically I just think you should get rid of the Electoral College and have a national popular vote. But the mechanism of that vote is not something I thought about a lot. But, you know, I’m a big fan like David of ranked-choice voting in congressional elections or in state elections. Like Maine has adopted it. I think more states should adopt it. And so I can’t think of an argument against using that at the national level. ross douthat Well I mean I’m not wildly against that idea but I think every idea that you come up with creates potential downside. One thing the Electoral College definitely does is make it very hard for a third-party challenger to really challenge for the presidency unless they have a sort of concentrated regional support. Like Ross Perot, the last really successful third-party candidate, really didn’t get any electoral votes. michelle goldberg Wait but Ross, you like third parties! ross douthat No I’m not — I’m just playing around here a little bit. Right? No, I don’t think that would be so terrible but it would create a situation where someone like Howard Schultz, who neither of you guys particularly like right now, has more of an incentive to get in and help make Donald Trump president, maybe, than he would under the Electoral College system. I mean it’s the “Green Book” problem. At last I get to make an Oscar analogy, right? “Green Book” won best picture despite being, I think by general agreement, a kind of mediocre movie because nobody really hated it and people ranked it pretty high on their ranked-choice voting. But probably at least one other and maybe many other movies got more number one votes for best picture but they still lost to “Green Book.” So the ranked choice system delivers you the inoffensive president who people dislike the least, potentially, while denying the nomination to someone who maybe gets the actual most votes. And maybe that’s fine. But it is a change. michelle goldberg O.K. So that’s worth thinking through and I actually find the “Green Book” possibility very scary and persuasive. It still sounds better to me to have a system in which the sort of “meh” candidate has a chance of winning than a candidate that is virulently hated by a majority of the population. ross douthat Yeah I mean I think what’s definitely true is that the Electoral College was supposed to create impediments basically to demagogues. Right? michelle goldberg Right — the electoral college was supposed to stop people like Trump. And in that respect it’s obviously failed. ross douthat Yes. And the Electoral College in that sense also makes more sense in a system with stronger political parties, which we no longer have. I think that Trump himself, the fact that he could win despite the Electoral College, does show that it’s not doing one of the jobs the founders envisioned for it. At the same time, I think Hillary Clinton deserved to lose the last election because of how she campaigned. So I can’t help feeling that Trump’s election also makes a kind of case for the Electoral College in this strange way. david leonhardt To me one of the most exciting things about getting rid of the Electoral College would be all of the places that have been wholly ignored during presidential campaigns that no longer would be. I mean our colleague Jamelle Bouie pointed out that inland California, a place with huge numbers of conservative voters almost totally ignored in presidential campaigns, would no longer be. Or big cities in Texas where there are a lot of Democratic voters. It would basically take all these people who’ve been left out of the process and and involve them again. And that’s why the idea excites me. ross douthat I mean I guess that argument to me makes more sense if we were living through an era of sort of massive political disengagement where nobody’s voting and voter turnout is falling and so on and that doesn’t seem to overall be the kind of era we’re necessarily living through, right? Like I feel like the case for a constitutional amendment to make sure that you get slightly higher turnout in rural California is not the decisive case in the way that that regime crisis case seems to me to be the much stronger case. david leonhardt I mean yes and no. Voter turnout rates among people under the age of 30 or 40 or pretty horrifically low. And so if a 25-year-old living in the inland empire of California or living in Dallas said to me, my vote doesn’t matter at all, there’s a way in which they’re right about that. And so to me the idea of making people feel like we have a more responsive political system has some inherent value to it. This could actually happen. A whole bunch of states, including California and New York, have passed laws saying they will devote their Electoral College votes to the winner of the popular vote so long as enough states do so. And in fact if you count it up we’re two thirds of the way toward having that actually happen. If a Republican were to lose when winning the popular vote and a few Republican states were to pass this legislation, I think we’re actually closer to the Electoral College not functionally mattering than a lot of people realize. So it’s a good time to dig into the upsides and downsides of it. That will do it for our Electoral College discussion. We’ll be right back with our weekly recommendation. Now it’s time for our weekly recommendation, when we give you a suggestion that is meant to take your mind off of politics. This week it’s my turn and I am going to make a recommendation that is borne out of sadness, unfortunately. An economist by the name of Alan Krueger recently committed suicide at the age of 58. He was an enormously important and influential economist. I knew Alan somewhat. I’d interviewed him many times. And one of his areas of research was happiness. What makes human beings happy. And I once asked him when I was interviewing him whether any of the research he had done had affected his own view about what to do. And he gave me two pieces of really lovely and obviously quite poignant, in retrospect, pieces of advice. And I just wanted to share them. The first is he said that the data shows that hanging out with friends really makes people happy in a way that nothing else does. In a way that work doesn’t, even in a way that hanging out with relatives doesn’t. And so he took that and said even at the end of a long day or long week when he was tired, if he was debating whether to go to a party or whether to do something with friends, even if in the moment he didn’t want to do it, the data tried to push him to do it more often. And the second piece of advice, which is something that I find myself following all the time now, is he said that people don’t really value objects that they get as gifts. They appreciate the thought but the object usually isn’t that useful to them. But they do really value experiences. And so it would make sense to kind of nudge our gifts a little bit more toward giving people experiences. You can take someone out for coffee. You can take them out to dinner. The story Alan told me is he splurged and he took his dad to a Super Bowl to watch his dad’s beloved New York Giants, and then he got a souvenir from the game framed and hung it in his office so he could look at it all the time. And I think about that a lot. And I already miss Allen and am shocked and saddened by his death as nearly the entire world of economics is. So I just wanted to share that a little bit, those two little bits of wisdom from him with the two of you and with all of our listeners. michelle goldberg Yeah I mean I know a lot of people who knew him and you know, yes everybody is shocked and heartbroken. And you know even me as a non-economist kind of knew how important and significant his work was. And both of those things that you said seem like actually more valuable than like 99 percent of self-help advice that I can think of. david leonhardt And 99 percent of economics. michelle goldberg Oh yeah, definitely. ross douthat I just took my family, my wife and three kids, we flew to Colorado to see some relatives who were moving back east and therefore won’t be in Colorado for much longer. And it was one of the worst travel experiences I’ve had because we were delayed by the bomb cyclone snowstorm that went off in Denver and then we were moved to a non-direct flight and our seats weren’t together. And when you have a three-year-old and your seats aren’t together and you’re running to catch a connection it’s a total nightmare. But the truth is that, you know, at the end of the day we’re back on the East Coast and I think the memories from the trip will either be happy ones or sort of bemused rueful entertaining ones from the disastrous travel. And in that sense it’s a sort of personal case study in David’s point, that doing things with friends or family, however challenging they may be, are essential to what makes not just life worth living but memory worth having. speaker That’s a good place to leave our show this week. As always we would like to hear your feedback. You can leave us a voicemail at 347-915-4324. That’s 347-915-4324, and we may play you on the show. You can also email us at argument@nytimes.com. If you like what you hear please do leave us a rating or review an Apple Podcasts. This week’s show was produced, as it always is by Alex Loughlin for transmitter media and edited by Lisa Roberts our executive producer is Gretta Cohen. We had help from Tyson Evans. Phoebe let Ian Persaud Philbrick and Francis Yang. Our theme was composed by Allison Layton Brown thank you for listening. We’ll see you back here next week. Maybe the next segment should be like are we actually living in a simulation gone. Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device:  Apple Podcasts | Spotify | Google Play | RadioPublic | Stitcher The end of Robert Mueller’s investigation into possible ties between President Trump’s campaign and the Russian government has left some liberals disappointed. This week on “The Argument,” Michelle Goldberg thinks Attorney General William Barr’s letter to Congress was crafted to obscure Mueller’s findings and help the president. Ross Douthat accuses the media of overselling the magnitude of the scandal. And David Leonhardt wants to see the actual Mueller report — not just Barr’s summary of it — before drawing too many conclusions about what it means for Trump. Then, is it time to get rid of the Electoral College? The columnists debate a proposal to change America’s election process that recently resurfaced on the 2020 campaign trail. Finally, David passes along two pieces of advice on how to live a happier life from a renowned economist who left us too soon. [If you are having thoughts of suicide, call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-8255 (TALK). You can find a list of additional resources at SpeakingOfSuicide.com/resources.] Background Reading: Ross on the political establishment’s Russia panic and the case for the Electoral College Michelle on what we still don’t know about Trump and Russia and minority rule David on William Barr’s letter to Congress, the unanswered questions it raises and Trump’s unfitness for office “It’s Official: Russiagate Is This Generation’s W.M.D.” (Matt Taibbi) “The Winners and Losers of the Mueller Revelations” (Tyler Cowen) I’ve been an Op-Ed columnist since 2009, and I write about politics, religion, pop culture, sociology and the places where they all intersect. I’m a Catholic and a conservative, in that order, which means that I’m against abortion and critical of the sexual revolution, but I tend to agree with liberals that the Republican Party is too friendly to the rich. I was against Donald Trump in 2016 for reasons specific to Donald Trump, but in general I think the populist movements in Europe and America have legitimate grievances and I often prefer the populists to the “reasonable” elites. I’ve written books about Harvard, the G.O.P., American Christianity and Pope Francis; I’m working on one about decadence. Benedict XVI was my favorite pope. I review movies for National Review and have strong opinions about many prestige television shows. I have three small children, two girls and a boy, and I live in New Haven with my wife. I’ve been an Op-Ed columnist at The New York Times since 2017, writing mainly about politics, ideology and gender. These days people on the right and the left both use “liberal” as an epithet, but that’s basically what I am, though the nightmare of Donald Trump’s presidency has radicalized me and pushed me leftward. I’ve written three books, including one, in 2006, about the danger of right-wing populism in its religious fundamentalist guise. (My other two were about the global battle over reproductive rights and, in a brief detour from politics, about an adventurous Russian émigré who helped bring yoga to the West.) I love to travel; a long time ago, after my husband and I eloped, we spent a year backpacking through Asia. Now we live in Brooklyn with our son and daughter. I’ve worked at The Times since 1999 and have been an Op-Ed columnist since 2016. I caught the journalism bug a very long time ago — first as a little kid in the late 1970s who loved reading the Boston Globe sports section and later as a teenager working on my high school and college newspapers. I discovered that when my classmates and I put a complaint in print, for everyone to see, school administrators actually paid attention. I’ve since worked as a metro reporter at The Washington Post and a writer at BusinessWeek magazine. At The Times, I started as a reporter in the business section and have also been a Times Magazine staff writer, the Washington bureau chief and the founding editor of The Upshot. My politics are left of center. But I’m also to the right of many Times readers. I think education reform has accomplished a lot. I think two-parent families are good for society. I think progressives should be realistic about the cultural conservatism that dominates much of this country. Most of all, however, I worry deeply about today’s Republican Party, which has become dangerously extreme. This country faces some huge challenges — inequality, climate change, the rise of China — and they’ll be very hard to solve without having both parties committed to the basic functioning of American democracy. Tune in on iTunes, Google Play, Spotify, Stitcher or wherever you listen to podcasts. Tell us what you think at argument@nytimes.com. Follow Michelle Goldberg (@michelleinbklyn), Ross Douthat (@DouthatNYT) and David Leonhardt (@DLeonhardt) on Twitter.  This week’s show is produced by Alex Laughlin for Transmitter Media and edited by Lacy Roberts. Our executive producer is Gretta Cohn. We had help from Tyson Evans, Phoebe Lett and Ian Prasad Philbrick. Our theme is composed by Allison Leyton-Brown.Supported by By Mark Mazzetti and Katie Benner WASHINGTON — The investigation led by Robert S. Mueller III found no evidence that President Trump or any of his aides coordinated with the Russian government’s 2016 election interference, according to a summary of the special counsel’s key findings made public on Sunday by Attorney General William P. Barr. Mr. Mueller, who spent nearly two years investigating Moscow’s determined effort to sabotage the last presidential election, found no conspiracy “despite multiple offers from Russian-affiliated individuals to assist the Trump campaign,” Mr. Barr wrote in a letter to lawmakers. Mr. Mueller’s team drew no conclusions about whether Mr. Trump illegally obstructed justice, Mr. Barr said, so he made his own decision. The attorney general and his deputy, Rod J. Rosenstein, determined that the special counsel’s investigators had insufficient evidence to establish that the president committed that offense. He cautioned, however, that Mr. Mueller’s report states that “while this report does not conclude that the president committed a crime, it also does not exonerate him” on the obstruction of justice issue. Still, the release of the findings was a significant political victory for Mr. Trump and lifted a cloud that has hung over his presidency since before he took the oath of office. It is also likely to alter discussion in Congress about the fate of the Trump presidency; some Democrats had pledged to wait until the special counsel finished his work before deciding whether to initiate impeachment proceedings. The letter, by Attorney General William P. Barr, details the main findings of the special counsel’s two-year investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election. [Read the key Mueller findings.] The president trumpeted the news almost immediately, even as he mischaracterized the special counsel’s findings. “It was a complete and total exoneration,” Mr. Trump told reporters in Florida before boarding Air Force One. “It’s a shame that our country had to go through this. To be honest, it’s a shame that your president has had to go through this.” He added, “This was an illegal takedown that failed.” Mr. Barr’s letter was the culmination of a tense two days since Mr. Mueller delivered his report to the Justice Department. Mr. Barr spent the weekend poring over the special counsel’s work, as Mr. Trump strategized with lawyers and political aides at his Mar-a-Lago estate in Florida. Mr. Mueller, who has been a spectral presence in the capital for nearly two years — so often discussed, but so rarely seen — was photographed leaving a church on Sunday morning just across Lafayette Square from the White House. transcript Hosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Theo Balcomb and Jessica Cheung, and edited by Lisa Tobin What does the Mueller report say? The attorney general offered an early glimpse. michael schmidt Hello? Hello? Hello? maggie haberman Hello. michael schmidt Maggie? maggie haberman Hi. michael schmidt Can you hear me? maggie haberman Yes, can you hear me? michael schmidt Yeah, hold on, hold on, hold on. Wearing two headphones right now. maggie haberman Mm. Sounds about right. michael schmidt Can you hear me? Oh, that’s better. maggie haberman We gotcha. We’re just waiting on the star. michael barbaro Hi. maggie haberman It’s Michael Barbaro, host of “The Daily.” michael schmidt Doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo. michael barbaro From The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today — Attorney General William Barr has sent a letter to Congress summarizing the findings of the special counsel investigation: No coordination with Russia. More complicated on obstruction of justice. My colleagues Maggie Haberman and Mike Schmidt explain. It’s Monday, March 25. O.K. Maggie, like, it is 6:00 p.m. on Sunday evening. Two hours ago, the attorney general, Bill Barr, sent a letter to congressional leaders outlining the major conclusions of the special counsel’s report. michael schmidt The report is broken into two parts. The first one is on the biggest, most central question that has surrounded the president since he was elected: What are the ties between his campaign and Russia? And on that issue, Barr is unequivocal. michael barbaro What does he say? michael schmidt He says there are no ties between what Russia did in the election and Trump’s campaign. That despite how aggressively the Russians tried to interfere in our election, and even outreach that they made to the campaign, they were able to find no evidence that they actually worked together. michael barbaro But Mike, help me understand this. In the lead-up to the report, the Mueller investigation issued a number of subpoenas and charges that felt like they revealed forms of collusion. I’m thinking about Papadopoulos, Manafort, a meeting inside Trump Tower that involved the president’s son and his son-in-law. Those all felt like forms of collusion. michael schmidt I think that what went on was that the Trump campaign was sort of collusion-curious in the sense that they were open to sort of talking to anyone about anything. And the Russians were reaching out right. And that meant that there were a lot of odd contacts that occurred. What I think Mueller and Barr are saying is that even though a lot of that stuff looks funky, we have no evidence that they linked hands and tried to work together to hurt Clinton. michael barbaro So collusion-curious does not equal coordination. maggie haberman No. Being interested in getting information is something that you have heard either the president say or people around the president say. You know, of course, we took these meetings. Of course when people reached out to us, we listened to them. Who wouldn’t? Their argument has been that they were just doing what anyone would do. And the other argument they’ve made repeatedly is that they were too discombobulated and too green and too new at this to even know how to collude. And as someone who covered that campaign, I can tell you there is some logic to that argument. michael barbaro As somebody who’s slightly more removed from the day to day of this investigation than either of you, it’s starting to feel from this summary from Bill Barr of the Mueller report that what the investigation found was what we all kind of knew the investigation found as it was finding. That there was nothing all that big being held back. And that helps us understand this conclusion. maggie haberman What we saw in indictments either of Paul Manafort, or of his deputy Rick Gates, who pleaded guilty, or of Mike Flynn or George Papadopoulos, this might have been, it seems, all there was. This was all the information that they were able to prove existed. michael barbaro Mike, what do you think of that? michael schmidt Let’s go back and look at the indictments and guilty pleas. George Papadopoulos, a campaign official who had contacts with individuals who said the Russians were going to be releasing information about Hillary Clinton’s emails before it came out. When George Papadopoulos pleads guilty, he does not plead guilty to conspiring with the Russians. He pleads guilty to making false statements to investigators about that contact. The president’s former national security adviser, Michael Flynn, has these odd phone calls with the Russian ambassador during the transition in which they discuss lifting sanctions that have just been imposed by the Obama administration for election meddling. When Mike Flynn goes into court to plead guilty, he doesn’t plead guilty to conspiring with the Russians. He pleads guilty to making false statements to the F.B.I. about it. So as we went along in the investigation over the past 22 months, we never saw charges that said that the campaign conspired with Russia. There was some question — was Mueller holding out something like that until the end? Was he going to wait and then make a move on it? Well, today, we know that they never found anything. michael barbaro Right. He wasn’t making those kinds of indictments because he didn’t have any evidence of it. maggie haberman Or at least he didn’t have enough to bring an indictment. I mean, he might have found strains of information, he might have found pieces along the way, but it clearly was not enough to bring a charge. michael barbaro So in the end, this was a bunch of people around the president lying, perhaps to avoid what might look like coordination if they were going to tell the truth, but not actually coordinating, according to the legal definition. michael schmidt Correct. michael barbaro And what about the second question in this letter, the question of obstruction of justice? What does Barr’s summary of the Mueller report say about that? michael schmidt So the obstruction part is not nearly as clean-cut as the collusion section. On obstruction, Barr essentially says that Mueller did not come to his own determination on whether the president obstructed justice. That Mueller could not indict or exonerate the president for that charge. But that left the door open for Barr to say, look, Mueller has not made a determination on this. I, as the attorney general, along with the deputy attorney general, Rod Rosenstein, will make that call. And we do not believe there is a case to be made the president obstructed justice. michael barbaro I don’t quite understand what’s going on here. Why do we think, Mike, that Mueller declined to weigh in on this question of obstruction of justice? Why leave it kind of up in the air? maggie haberman There’s not really a full explanation for that. And I’m not sure. For the past 22 months, Democrats and a lot of folks in the media have built Mueller up as sort of this paragon of justice, and someone who was willing and able to go out and make determinations and calls on really tough issues in non-partisan, follow-the-facts ways. And here, we have Mueller essentially saying, I don’t really have a determination on it. For each of the relevant actions, the letter says, that were investigated, the report sets out evidence on both sides of the question and leaves unresolved what the special counsel views as, quote, “difficult issues of law and fact concerning whether the president’s actions and intent could be viewed as obstruction.” The special counsel states that, quote, “while this report does not conclude the president committed a crime, it also does not exonerate him.” michael barbaro Let’s pick apart what I think we can all agree is the most salient example of this, where maybe disentangling motive and law and obstruction of justice is really tangled up. And that would be the firing of James Comey. The president at first says it’s not about Russia, then goes on television, says, it really is about Russia. And yet we all know that the president can pretty much fire anyone at that level if he wants to. Is that what Bill Barr, in summarizing Mueller, is saying? That this stuff is just really difficult, and so we’re not making a call? maggie haberman Mueller is saying this is really difficult, and it’s hard to get in the president’s head and know what his intent was and his frame of mind was. And he decides that he is not going to be the one to make that call. Bill Barr, not wanting, I think, to leave this as an open-ended thing puts a pin in it and says, this is done. michael barbaro And says, I will make that call. maggie haberman I will make that call. And we do not believe that this is sufficient to say that the president obstructed justice. And remember, obstruction of justice was key to Richard Nixon. This was a piece that the president’s folks were worried about. They had felt really confident the whole time that there would not be an evidence-based case of conspiracy related to Russia. But they were concerned about what it would find on the obstruction piece. michael schmidt Interestingly — and I still don’t think this issue has gotten enough attention — the central question here was the president’s intent when he took actions like firing Comey. But at the end of the day, the president of the United States never sat for an interview with investigators to answer those questions. So here you have the attorney general saying, this thing is done, but we’ve never heard from Donald Trump on it. And the reason we never heard from Donald Trump on it was that his lawyers were so afraid that if he sat down to answer questions, he would make a factually inaccurate statement and would increase his criminal exposure. michael barbaro And it’s within the president’s rights not to sit down for such an interview. michael schmidt That’s not true. The Justice Department could have subpoenaed him for an interview. michael barbaro But why didn’t they? michael schmidt One of the unanswered questions in this. But in an investigation where the central question was what was the president’s intent, Bob Mueller was never able to ask him that question. michael barbaro But he wasn’t able to ask him the question because he never issued a subpoena. He never pursued all legal avenues? maggie haberman We don’t know whether he pursued a legal avenue and was told that there wasn’t sufficient anything to go get a subpoena, or whether he just didn’t seek one. And that is, to me right now as we sit here, an open question. I don’t know whether Bob Mueller actually sought to go after this subpoena, which a lot of people thought that he would do. We’re not going to know for some time. michael schmidt But what we did learn on Friday when Barr first announced the end of the Mueller investigation was there was no instance in the investigation where Mueller wanted to take a major step, like indict someone, or subpoena them, or get a search warrant, in which he was told by his superiors at the Justice Department that he could not do that. So that would sort of bolster the argument that Mueller was not stopped by the Justice Department from seeking a subpoena to interview the president. He’s saying there were no instances in which Mueller was stopped from moving forward with something he wanted to do. michael barbaro No matter what, in this moment where so much of this second question of obstruction of justice comes down to the president’s motivation, which is essentially a matter of getting into someone’s head, never hearing from President Trump feels very significant. maggie haberman It’s a huge deal. Barr lays it out in this letter to Congress about what Mueller’s thinking was, where he describes that the report sets out evidence on both sides of the question. And I think what you have there is the president’s lawyers have repeatedly offered up explanations for why the president could have been doing something that were not necessarily nefarious or that were not undermining. And the main thing that they have said over and over is, this isn’t obstruction because it’s all playing out in public. It’s not hidden. He has a right to express his views as a citizen of the country. And I anticipate that should we ever see what is in this report, that is going to show up a lot. michael schmidt When Maggie and I would talk to Rudy Giuliani during the investigation — michael barbaro The president’s lawyer. michael schmidt He would say things like, obstruction of justice and trying to interfere in an investigation is going into a dark alley and threatening to break someone’s leg if they cooperate with investigators. It’s bribing someone to not testify. But what Giuliani said is that all this stuff is happening out in the open. He’s not trying to twist anyone’s arm. He’s just blowing off steam about the investigation. And what conspiracy is there in that? michael barbaro Were either of you surprised by either of these actions outlined in this letter when it comes to obstruction of justice — by Mueller declining to make a call, or by Barr being so quick to make a call? maggie haberman I was not surprised that Mueller didn’t make a call. I was surprised that Barr moved so quickly. I did not think that the collusion aspect of this letter was going to be revelatory, but I did think that the obstruction one possibly would be. And it shuts it down definitively. There is a piece of the letter that we haven’t talked about, which is that Bill Barr, the attorney general, tells Congress that Robert Mueller, the special counsel, recognized that, quote, “the evidence does not establish that the president was involved in an underlying crime related to Russian election interference. And that while not determinative, the absence of such evidence bears upon the president’s intent with respect to obstruction.” So a big piece of the thinking for Barr seems to have been that since there is not an underlying crime that was found related to the president, that obstruction is harder to prove. michael barbaro In other words, there is a connection between these two questions. Between coordination and obstruction of justice. That if there was no coordination, if there is no original sin, then it’s hard to establish that there was obstruction of justice. maggie haberman Right. If there is no crime that was committed, it is hard to suggest that the president was trying to obstruct justice in the course of pursuing evidence about that crime. And that is an argument that Mike and I also heard the president’s lawyers say repeatedly, which was that there couldn’t be obstruction of justice because there’s nothing to obstruct. michael barbaro Does that seem like universally sound legal logic? That you can’t commit a crime in obstructing investigations into something that wasn’t a crime? Because it certainly feels like if someone’s investigating me, and I decide to stop the investigation in violation of the law, that that could be itself a violation of a law, separate and apart from whether or not what I was being investigated for in the first place was a crime? I mean, are those two things necessarily connected? michael schmidt I think there’s two reasons why the Justice Department would not want to bring a case like this. The first is that if there’s not an underlying crime, then do you really want to bring an obstruction case? Do you really want to go to court to try and convince a jury that someone took actions where there was nothing to cover up? I think that’s a tough case to make. The second thing is that while the president huffed and puffed a lot about this investigation, I’m not sure how much real damage it did to it. Bob Mueller was able to pursue his inquiry. He was not fired. They finished what they had. They weren’t impeded by the Justice Department. So what was the real damage? If the president was obstructing, how did he really hurt the investigation? Give me the damage report. And I don’t think at the end of the day there was that much that actually hurt Mueller’s team’s ability to do their job. It may have been loud, it may have been annoying, it may have been dispiriting. But I think they were able to pursue what they needed to. maggie haberman I think, also, there’s a third point, which is that I think that Bob Mueller was very mindful that he was dealing with the presidency and the damage that an ongoing case like this, if it was iffy, and not locked solid, not completely nailed down, could cause not just the office of the presidency, but the kind of trauma that brings to a country. michael barbaro I’m very struck as we’re talking, Maggie and Mike, that, at least according to this letter, this is exactly what we have had in front of us all along. maggie haberman Unless the report has a lot of information that we’re not seeing, what we saw play out publicly is what was there. The attorney general made clear that this investigation was ending without a recommendation of more indictments. That includes sealed indictments. This is what we’re getting. It will now move to Capitol Hill, and Democrats will seek to get as much material as they can. But in terms of the part the president was really concerned about in terms of Mueller, that is over. michael barbaro So let’s talk about what Congress is going to do now. Congressional leaders have just received this letter. Mike, you have told us in the past that Democrats were going to be very cautious in how they proceeded under any circumstances. And that if Mueller didn’t find the sort of thing that would force even Republicans in Congress to acknowledge that the president had violated the law, impeachment proceedings would be very unlikely. And it seems like this letter is not at all what Democrats would have needed to move forward in that sort of way. michael schmidt I think it takes a lot of wind out of their sails. They basically have full-blown investigations into obstruction and collusion going on. And here, you have Mueller, someone who has far better tools than they will ever have to investigate, coming out and clearing the president on the Russia issue and giving a mixed message on obstruction that allows Barr to clear him there. It gives the Republicans a very good argument to say, why are you guys continuing to look at these issues? Why are you continuing to rummage around in the president’s life when we’ve received clarity on this from the Justice Department? So I think it hurts them. maggie haberman I think that you’re going to see Nancy Pelosi, the Democratic House speaker, proceed carefully. As of late evening Sunday, she still had not said anything about how she was going to handle this. And I think that you are going to see a lot of Republicans reminding Democrats that they were holding Robert Mueller up as this avatar of credibility when the investigation was going on, so that it is hard to now say, we need to know more, because we need to make a determination that he couldn’t. That will almost inevitably look very political. michael schmidt So the Democrats are going to ask for everything that Mueller had in the report. And it’s clear from the letter that a lot of obstruction of justice issues were looked at and detailed and analyzed. And the question is that if the Democrats get their hands on that, how damaging is the obstruction stuff? And is it strong enough to give Democrats more of an oomph on their obstruction investigation? michael barbaro Is it both of your understandings that Congress will get a full copy of the Mueller report that they can then examine for these answers? maggie haberman I don’t think that’s been resolved yet. michael schmidt That’s the big question. michael barbaro Maggie, after months of the president calling the Mueller investigation a witch hunt or worse, would it be better now for him to lean into that description or turn around and say, you know, this investigation is the gold star of investigations, and it says I’m in the clear? maggie haberman There are a lot of people in the White House who are encouraging the president to turn and say, this was a highly respected prosecutor who just said there was no collusion. And I hope we can all accept this and move on, and try to strike a healing note. It is the president’s political instinct to burrow into his base and say, this was a witch hunt, this was a hoax. And that is what I have heard a number of his advisers say publicly in the last few hours. It’s what his son said in a statement that he gave me. I think they are going to go full-on by telling people this was a waste of two years. This was an effort to undo an electoral result in 2016, and don’t let this happen again. michael barbaro And I wonder if you can explain for listeners why it wasn’t what you just said the president might call it — a waste of two years. A waste of everyone’s time and an effort to politically undermine him. maggie haberman It might have had the effect of undermining him. That might have been one of the impacts. But we do know, based on numerous assessments from the intelligence community, that Russians did seek to interfere in the 2016 election. We do know that there were many contacts between Russians and people involved in the Trump campaign. So trying to find out what was at the heart of that, one would think, was not a waste of time. And now there is an answer. There is a world in which the president could say, this gave me a clean bill of health, and now you can trust me going forward. michael barbaro Mike, I want to ask you the same question. What is your explanation for why this investigation was not a waste of time? michael schmidt Well, there were legitimate issues and questions that had to be answered. And along the way, the president took action after action that only made the perception that he did something wrong worse. He fired the F.B.I. director. He asked the F.B.I. director to end an investigation into whether his former national security adviser was talking improperly to the Russian ambassador. He said things publicly about the investigation time and time again to demonize the investigators. He criticized his own attorney general, who recused himself from the Russia investigation. He called Mueller’s team a bunch of angry Democrats. He made the perception worse. And there were things that he did that walked up to the line of obstruction and had to be looked at, that had to be sorted through. Whether it was to clear the president and say, hey, look, he did nothing wrong, for his sake, or to give the public some confidence that the president of the United States was not a Russian agent. michael barbaro So among the questions that had to be answered in an investigation into Russian interference in our election, regardless of the answer, was what was the president’s role in this? And it happens to be that the answer was seemingly nothing illegal. But that answer had to be unearthed. michael schmidt A significant portion of the country thought that the president of the United States either wittingly or unwittingly had worked with a foreign adversary to influence the election. That was something that had to be looked into. michael barbaro And because he didn’t do that, Bill Barr also believes he did not obstruct this investigation. michael schmidt There was nothing to obstruct. maggie haberman At least that’s what they found. michael barbaro No one asked me, but — maggie haberman Michael, what do you think? michael barbaro I think that Russia could never have fathomed just how cosmically disruptive their efforts to influence the election would be. maggie haberman I think they succeeded beyond their wildest dreams, yes. michael schmidt Look at how distracted we’ve been as a country because of this for the past two years. Think about all the other issues that we could have been talking about or looking at. This was an enormous, enormous distraction for the country. maggie haberman And for Donald Trump. michael barbaro Maggie, Mike, thank you very much. maggie haberman Thank you. michael schmidt Thanks for having us. archived recording (donald trump) So after a long look, after a long investigation, after so many people have been so badly hurt, after not looking at the other side, where a lot of bad things happened, a lot of horrible things happened, a lot of very bad things happened for our country, it was just announced there was no collusion with Russia. The most ridiculous thing I’ve ever heard — michael barbaro On Sunday afternoon, on his way back to Washington from his home in Florida, President Trump addressed the major findings of the Mueller report. archived recording (donald trump) There was no obstruction, and none whatsoever. And it was a complete and total exoneration. It’s a shame that our country had to go through this. To be honest, it’s a shame that your president has had to go through this for — before I even got elected, it began. And it began illegally. And hopefully, somebody is going to look at the other side. This was an illegal takedown that failed. And hopefully, somebody is going to be looking at the other side. So it’s complete — michael barbaro Not long after, the Democratic chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, Representative Jerry Nadler of New York, disputed the president’s characterization of the Mueller report during a news conference in New York. archived recording (jerry nadler) Earlier today, I received a four-page letter from Attorney General Barr outlining his summary of Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s report while making a few questionable legal arguments of his own. I take from this letter three points. First, President Trump is wrong. This report does not amount to a so-called “total exoneration.” michael barbaro Nadler seemed to accept Mueller’s conclusion that the president did not coordinate with Russia, but seized on less definitive statements made by Mueller and Barr about whether the president obstructed justice. archived recording (jerry nadler) The attorney general’s comments make it clear that Congress must step in to get the truth and provide full transparency to the American people. The president has not been exonerated by the special counsel. Yet the attorney general has decided not to go further or, apparently, to share those findings with the public. We cannot simply rely on what may be a hasty partisan interpretation of the facts. michael barbaro That’s it for “The Daily.” I’m Michael Barbaro. See you tomorrow. Hours later, Mr. Barr delivered his letter describing the special counsel’s findings to Congress. But congressional Democrats have demanded more, and the letter could be just the beginning of a lengthy constitutional battle between Congress and the Justice Department about whether Mr. Mueller’s full report will be made public. Democrats have also called for the attorney general to turn over all of the special counsel’s investigative files. Mr. Barr’s letter said that his “goal and intent” was to release as much of the Mueller report as possible, but warned that some of the report was based on grand jury material that “by law cannot be made public.” Mr. Barr planned at a later date to send lawmakers the detailed summary of Mr. Mueller’s full report that the attorney general is required under law to deliver to Capitol Hill. Lawmakers on Sunday also criticized Mr. Barr’s conclusion that the president had not obstructed justice — which requires making a determination about whether Mr. Trump had “corrupt intent” when he took steps to impede the investigation at different turns — when the special counsel’s team never questioned the president in person. After months of debate over a potential interview, Mr. Mueller’s investigators agreed to accept written answers from the president. Mr. Barr’s letter said that the Mueller report identified no actions that, in his and Mr. Rosenstein’s minds, “constitute obstructive conduct, had a nexus to a pending or contemplated proceeding, and were done with corrupt intent.” Mr. Barr did not consult Mr. Mueller in writing his letter to leaders of the congressional judiciary committees, a Justice Department official said on Sunday. Shortly after the release of the Mueller findings, Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, said on Twitter that he planned to call Mr. Barr to testify about what he said were “very concerning discrepancies and final decision making at the Justice Department.” The Russia investigation has buffeted the White House from the earliest days of the Trump administration, with many current and former aides to Mr. Trump brought for questioning to the special counsel’s warren of offices in a plain office building in downtown Washington. F.B.I. agents fanned out across the nation and traveled to numerous foreign countries. Members of Mr. Mueller’s team questioned some witnesses at airports after they landed in the United States. Ultimately, a half-dozen former Trump aides were indicted or convicted of crimes, most for conspiracy or lying to investigators. Twenty-five Russian intelligence operatives and experts in social media manipulation were charged last year in two extraordinarily detailed indictments released by the special counsel. The inquiry concluded without charging any Americans for conspiring with the Russian campaign. More than two years of criminal indictments and steady revelations about Trump campaign contacts with Russians reveal the scope of the special counsel investigation. The findings could bring closure for some who have obsessed over the myriad threads of a byzantine investigation. A cottage industry of Mueller watchers has spent months on social media and cable news debating thorny constitutional issues, spinning conspiracy theories and amassing encyclopedic details about once obscure figures — Carter Page, Konstantin V. Kilimnik, George Papadopoulos and others. How many minds it changes is another matter. Opinions have hardened over time, with many Americans already convinced they knew the answers before Mr. Mueller submitted his conclusions. Some believe that the special counsel’s previous indictments, twinned with voluminous news reporting, have already shown a conspiracy between the Trump campaign and the Kremlin. Some believe that the investigation is, as Mr. Trump has long described it, a “witch hunt.” To prove a conspiracy, former prosecutors said, Mr. Mueller’s team would have had to show that Mr. Trump or one or more of his associates agreed that Russia should interfere in the election through computer espionage, illegal use of social media or other criminal means. Campaign officials at times were eager to accept benefits from Russia’s covert operation. “I love it,” Donald Trump Jr., the president’s eldest son, responded when an intermediary said a Russian emissary wanted to give the campaign damaging information on Hillary Clinton at a Trump Tower meeting in June 2016. Mr. Trump himself urged Russia to try to unearth deleted emails from a private server Mrs. Clinton had used when she was secretary of state. And Roger J. Stone, Jr., the president’s longtime friend, tried to enlist intermediaries to connect with WikiLeaks, Russia’s chosen depository for Democratic emails stolen by Russian hackers. But absent an agreement with the Russian government to break the law, former Justice Department officials said, none of that made Mr. Trump or his associates into co-conspirators with the Kremlin. “There is a big difference between saying, ‘Gosh, I think WikiLeaks has the ability to hack into the Democratic National Committee computers’ and saying ‘We would like them to dump those out in the public, so let’s call them up and ask them to do that,’” said Mary McCord, a former top-ranking national security official at the Justice Department. The release of Mr. Mueller’s findings could force a decision by Democrats on a simmering issue they have said would wait until the investigation’s end: whether to begin impeachment proceedings against the president. Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California has said it would not be “worth it” to try to impeach Mr. Trump, but suggested she could change her mind if an overwhelming bipartisan consensus emerged. For months, the president and his lawyers have waged as much of a public relations campaign as a legal one — trying to discredit the Mueller investigation to keep public opinion from swaying lawmakers to move against Mr. Trump. Here are some pieces of the jigsaw puzzle. The full picture is missing. Mr. Mueller’s work has proceeded in the face of blistering attacks by Mr. Trump and his allies, who painted the investigation as part of a relentless campaign by the “deep state” to reverse the results of the 2016 election. He was given a wide mandate — to investigate not only Russian election interference but also “any matters that may arise directly from that investigation.” Mr. Mueller has farmed out multiple aspects of his inquiry to several United States attorneys’ offices, and those investigations continue. Mr. Barr’s letter said that the special counsel’s office employed 19 lawyers and was assisted by about 40 F.B.I. agents, intelligence analysts, forensic accountants and other staff. About 500 witnesses were interviewed, and 13 foreign governments were asked to turn over evidence. Over all, the special counsel’s office issued more than 2,800 subpoenas, executed nearly 500 search warrants and obtained more than 230 orders for communications records. The Justice Department regulations governing the Mueller inquiry only required the special counsel to give a succinct, confidential report to the attorney general explaining his decisions to either seek — or decline to seek — further criminal charges. Mr. Mueller operated under tighter restrictions than similar past inquiries, notably the investigation of President Bill Clinton by Ken Starr, who ended up delivering a 445-page report in 1998 that contained lascivious details about an affair the president had with a White House intern. Mr. Mueller will not recommend new indictments, ending speculation that he might charge some of Mr. Trump’s aides in the future. The Justice Department’s general practice is not to identify the targets of its investigations if prosecutors decide not to bring charges, so as not to tarnish their reputations. Mr. Rosenstein emphasized this point in a speech last month. “It’s important,” Mr. Rosenstein said, “for government officials to refrain from making allegations of wrongdoing when they’re not backed by charges that we are prepared to prove in court.” Sharon LaFraniere contributed reporting.   

Supported by By Mark Mazzetti and Katie Benner WASHINGTON — The investigation led by Robert S. Mueller III found no evidence that President Trump or any of his aides coordinated with the Russian government’s 2016 election interference, according to a summary of the special counsel’s key findings made public on Sunday by Attorney General William P. Barr. Mr. Mueller, who spent nearly two years investigating Moscow’s determined effort to sabotage the last presidential election, found no conspiracy “despite multiple offers from Russian-affiliated individuals to assist the Trump campaign,” Mr. Barr wrote in a letter to lawmakers. Mr. Mueller’s team drew no conclusions about whether Mr. Trump illegally obstructed justice, Mr. Barr said, so he made his own decision. The attorney general and his deputy, Rod J. Rosenstein, determined that the special counsel’s investigators had insufficient evidence to establish that the president committed that offense. He cautioned, however, that Mr. Mueller’s report states that “while this report does not conclude that the president committed a crime, it also does not exonerate him” on the obstruction of justice issue. Still, the release of the findings was a significant political victory for Mr. Trump and lifted a cloud that has hung over his presidency since before he took the oath of office. It is also likely to alter discussion in Congress about the fate of the Trump presidency; some Democrats had pledged to wait until the special counsel finished his work before deciding whether to initiate impeachment proceedings. The letter, by Attorney General William P. Barr, details the main findings of the special counsel’s two-year investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election. [Read the key Mueller findings.] The president trumpeted the news almost immediately, even as he mischaracterized the special counsel’s findings. “It was a complete and total exoneration,” Mr. Trump told reporters in Florida before boarding Air Force One. “It’s a shame that our country had to go through this. To be honest, it’s a shame that your president has had to go through this.” He added, “This was an illegal takedown that failed.” Mr. Barr’s letter was the culmination of a tense two days since Mr. Mueller delivered his report to the Justice Department. Mr. Barr spent the weekend poring over the special counsel’s work, as Mr. Trump strategized with lawyers and political aides at his Mar-a-Lago estate in Florida. Mr. Mueller, who has been a spectral presence in the capital for nearly two years — so often discussed, but so rarely seen — was photographed leaving a church on Sunday morning just across Lafayette Square from the White House. transcript Hosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Theo Balcomb and Jessica Cheung, and edited by Lisa Tobin What does the Mueller report say? The attorney general offered an early glimpse. michael schmidt Hello? Hello? Hello? maggie haberman Hello. michael schmidt Maggie? maggie haberman Hi. michael schmidt Can you hear me? maggie haberman Yes, can you hear me? michael schmidt Yeah, hold on, hold on, hold on. Wearing two headphones right now. maggie haberman Mm. Sounds about right. michael schmidt Can you hear me? Oh, that’s better. maggie haberman We gotcha. We’re just waiting on the star. michael barbaro Hi. maggie haberman It’s Michael Barbaro, host of “The Daily.” michael schmidt Doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo. michael barbaro From The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today — Attorney General William Barr has sent a letter to Congress summarizing the findings of the special counsel investigation: No coordination with Russia. More complicated on obstruction of justice. My colleagues Maggie Haberman and Mike Schmidt explain. It’s Monday, March 25. O.K. Maggie, like, it is 6:00 p.m. on Sunday evening. Two hours ago, the attorney general, Bill Barr, sent a letter to congressional leaders outlining the major conclusions of the special counsel’s report. michael schmidt The report is broken into two parts. The first one is on the biggest, most central question that has surrounded the president since he was elected: What are the ties between his campaign and Russia? And on that issue, Barr is unequivocal. michael barbaro What does he say? michael schmidt He says there are no ties between what Russia did in the election and Trump’s campaign. That despite how aggressively the Russians tried to interfere in our election, and even outreach that they made to the campaign, they were able to find no evidence that they actually worked together. michael barbaro But Mike, help me understand this. In the lead-up to the report, the Mueller investigation issued a number of subpoenas and charges that felt like they revealed forms of collusion. I’m thinking about Papadopoulos, Manafort, a meeting inside Trump Tower that involved the president’s son and his son-in-law. Those all felt like forms of collusion. michael schmidt I think that what went on was that the Trump campaign was sort of collusion-curious in the sense that they were open to sort of talking to anyone about anything. And the Russians were reaching out right. And that meant that there were a lot of odd contacts that occurred. What I think Mueller and Barr are saying is that even though a lot of that stuff looks funky, we have no evidence that they linked hands and tried to work together to hurt Clinton. michael barbaro So collusion-curious does not equal coordination. maggie haberman No. Being interested in getting information is something that you have heard either the president say or people around the president say. You know, of course, we took these meetings. Of course when people reached out to us, we listened to them. Who wouldn’t? Their argument has been that they were just doing what anyone would do. And the other argument they’ve made repeatedly is that they were too discombobulated and too green and too new at this to even know how to collude. And as someone who covered that campaign, I can tell you there is some logic to that argument. michael barbaro As somebody who’s slightly more removed from the day to day of this investigation than either of you, it’s starting to feel from this summary from Bill Barr of the Mueller report that what the investigation found was what we all kind of knew the investigation found as it was finding. That there was nothing all that big being held back. And that helps us understand this conclusion. maggie haberman What we saw in indictments either of Paul Manafort, or of his deputy Rick Gates, who pleaded guilty, or of Mike Flynn or George Papadopoulos, this might have been, it seems, all there was. This was all the information that they were able to prove existed. michael barbaro Mike, what do you think of that? michael schmidt Let’s go back and look at the indictments and guilty pleas. George Papadopoulos, a campaign official who had contacts with individuals who said the Russians were going to be releasing information about Hillary Clinton’s emails before it came out. When George Papadopoulos pleads guilty, he does not plead guilty to conspiring with the Russians. He pleads guilty to making false statements to investigators about that contact. The president’s former national security adviser, Michael Flynn, has these odd phone calls with the Russian ambassador during the transition in which they discuss lifting sanctions that have just been imposed by the Obama administration for election meddling. When Mike Flynn goes into court to plead guilty, he doesn’t plead guilty to conspiring with the Russians. He pleads guilty to making false statements to the F.B.I. about it. So as we went along in the investigation over the past 22 months, we never saw charges that said that the campaign conspired with Russia. There was some question — was Mueller holding out something like that until the end? Was he going to wait and then make a move on it? Well, today, we know that they never found anything. michael barbaro Right. He wasn’t making those kinds of indictments because he didn’t have any evidence of it. maggie haberman Or at least he didn’t have enough to bring an indictment. I mean, he might have found strains of information, he might have found pieces along the way, but it clearly was not enough to bring a charge. michael barbaro So in the end, this was a bunch of people around the president lying, perhaps to avoid what might look like coordination if they were going to tell the truth, but not actually coordinating, according to the legal definition. michael schmidt Correct. michael barbaro And what about the second question in this letter, the question of obstruction of justice? What does Barr’s summary of the Mueller report say about that? michael schmidt So the obstruction part is not nearly as clean-cut as the collusion section. On obstruction, Barr essentially says that Mueller did not come to his own determination on whether the president obstructed justice. That Mueller could not indict or exonerate the president for that charge. But that left the door open for Barr to say, look, Mueller has not made a determination on this. I, as the attorney general, along with the deputy attorney general, Rod Rosenstein, will make that call. And we do not believe there is a case to be made the president obstructed justice. michael barbaro I don’t quite understand what’s going on here. Why do we think, Mike, that Mueller declined to weigh in on this question of obstruction of justice? Why leave it kind of up in the air? maggie haberman There’s not really a full explanation for that. And I’m not sure. For the past 22 months, Democrats and a lot of folks in the media have built Mueller up as sort of this paragon of justice, and someone who was willing and able to go out and make determinations and calls on really tough issues in non-partisan, follow-the-facts ways. And here, we have Mueller essentially saying, I don’t really have a determination on it. For each of the relevant actions, the letter says, that were investigated, the report sets out evidence on both sides of the question and leaves unresolved what the special counsel views as, quote, “difficult issues of law and fact concerning whether the president’s actions and intent could be viewed as obstruction.” The special counsel states that, quote, “while this report does not conclude the president committed a crime, it also does not exonerate him.” michael barbaro Let’s pick apart what I think we can all agree is the most salient example of this, where maybe disentangling motive and law and obstruction of justice is really tangled up. And that would be the firing of James Comey. The president at first says it’s not about Russia, then goes on television, says, it really is about Russia. And yet we all know that the president can pretty much fire anyone at that level if he wants to. Is that what Bill Barr, in summarizing Mueller, is saying? That this stuff is just really difficult, and so we’re not making a call? maggie haberman Mueller is saying this is really difficult, and it’s hard to get in the president’s head and know what his intent was and his frame of mind was. And he decides that he is not going to be the one to make that call. Bill Barr, not wanting, I think, to leave this as an open-ended thing puts a pin in it and says, this is done. michael barbaro And says, I will make that call. maggie haberman I will make that call. And we do not believe that this is sufficient to say that the president obstructed justice. And remember, obstruction of justice was key to Richard Nixon. This was a piece that the president’s folks were worried about. They had felt really confident the whole time that there would not be an evidence-based case of conspiracy related to Russia. But they were concerned about what it would find on the obstruction piece. michael schmidt Interestingly — and I still don’t think this issue has gotten enough attention — the central question here was the president’s intent when he took actions like firing Comey. But at the end of the day, the president of the United States never sat for an interview with investigators to answer those questions. So here you have the attorney general saying, this thing is done, but we’ve never heard from Donald Trump on it. And the reason we never heard from Donald Trump on it was that his lawyers were so afraid that if he sat down to answer questions, he would make a factually inaccurate statement and would increase his criminal exposure. michael barbaro And it’s within the president’s rights not to sit down for such an interview. michael schmidt That’s not true. The Justice Department could have subpoenaed him for an interview. michael barbaro But why didn’t they? michael schmidt One of the unanswered questions in this. But in an investigation where the central question was what was the president’s intent, Bob Mueller was never able to ask him that question. michael barbaro But he wasn’t able to ask him the question because he never issued a subpoena. He never pursued all legal avenues? maggie haberman We don’t know whether he pursued a legal avenue and was told that there wasn’t sufficient anything to go get a subpoena, or whether he just didn’t seek one. And that is, to me right now as we sit here, an open question. I don’t know whether Bob Mueller actually sought to go after this subpoena, which a lot of people thought that he would do. We’re not going to know for some time. michael schmidt But what we did learn on Friday when Barr first announced the end of the Mueller investigation was there was no instance in the investigation where Mueller wanted to take a major step, like indict someone, or subpoena them, or get a search warrant, in which he was told by his superiors at the Justice Department that he could not do that. So that would sort of bolster the argument that Mueller was not stopped by the Justice Department from seeking a subpoena to interview the president. He’s saying there were no instances in which Mueller was stopped from moving forward with something he wanted to do. michael barbaro No matter what, in this moment where so much of this second question of obstruction of justice comes down to the president’s motivation, which is essentially a matter of getting into someone’s head, never hearing from President Trump feels very significant. maggie haberman It’s a huge deal. Barr lays it out in this letter to Congress about what Mueller’s thinking was, where he describes that the report sets out evidence on both sides of the question. And I think what you have there is the president’s lawyers have repeatedly offered up explanations for why the president could have been doing something that were not necessarily nefarious or that were not undermining. And the main thing that they have said over and over is, this isn’t obstruction because it’s all playing out in public. It’s not hidden. He has a right to express his views as a citizen of the country. And I anticipate that should we ever see what is in this report, that is going to show up a lot. michael schmidt When Maggie and I would talk to Rudy Giuliani during the investigation — michael barbaro The president’s lawyer. michael schmidt He would say things like, obstruction of justice and trying to interfere in an investigation is going into a dark alley and threatening to break someone’s leg if they cooperate with investigators. It’s bribing someone to not testify. But what Giuliani said is that all this stuff is happening out in the open. He’s not trying to twist anyone’s arm. He’s just blowing off steam about the investigation. And what conspiracy is there in that? michael barbaro Were either of you surprised by either of these actions outlined in this letter when it comes to obstruction of justice — by Mueller declining to make a call, or by Barr being so quick to make a call? maggie haberman I was not surprised that Mueller didn’t make a call. I was surprised that Barr moved so quickly. I did not think that the collusion aspect of this letter was going to be revelatory, but I did think that the obstruction one possibly would be. And it shuts it down definitively. There is a piece of the letter that we haven’t talked about, which is that Bill Barr, the attorney general, tells Congress that Robert Mueller, the special counsel, recognized that, quote, “the evidence does not establish that the president was involved in an underlying crime related to Russian election interference. And that while not determinative, the absence of such evidence bears upon the president’s intent with respect to obstruction.” So a big piece of the thinking for Barr seems to have been that since there is not an underlying crime that was found related to the president, that obstruction is harder to prove. michael barbaro In other words, there is a connection between these two questions. Between coordination and obstruction of justice. That if there was no coordination, if there is no original sin, then it’s hard to establish that there was obstruction of justice. maggie haberman Right. If there is no crime that was committed, it is hard to suggest that the president was trying to obstruct justice in the course of pursuing evidence about that crime. And that is an argument that Mike and I also heard the president’s lawyers say repeatedly, which was that there couldn’t be obstruction of justice because there’s nothing to obstruct. michael barbaro Does that seem like universally sound legal logic? That you can’t commit a crime in obstructing investigations into something that wasn’t a crime? Because it certainly feels like if someone’s investigating me, and I decide to stop the investigation in violation of the law, that that could be itself a violation of a law, separate and apart from whether or not what I was being investigated for in the first place was a crime? I mean, are those two things necessarily connected? michael schmidt I think there’s two reasons why the Justice Department would not want to bring a case like this. The first is that if there’s not an underlying crime, then do you really want to bring an obstruction case? Do you really want to go to court to try and convince a jury that someone took actions where there was nothing to cover up? I think that’s a tough case to make. The second thing is that while the president huffed and puffed a lot about this investigation, I’m not sure how much real damage it did to it. Bob Mueller was able to pursue his inquiry. He was not fired. They finished what they had. They weren’t impeded by the Justice Department. So what was the real damage? If the president was obstructing, how did he really hurt the investigation? Give me the damage report. And I don’t think at the end of the day there was that much that actually hurt Mueller’s team’s ability to do their job. It may have been loud, it may have been annoying, it may have been dispiriting. But I think they were able to pursue what they needed to. maggie haberman I think, also, there’s a third point, which is that I think that Bob Mueller was very mindful that he was dealing with the presidency and the damage that an ongoing case like this, if it was iffy, and not locked solid, not completely nailed down, could cause not just the office of the presidency, but the kind of trauma that brings to a country. michael barbaro I’m very struck as we’re talking, Maggie and Mike, that, at least according to this letter, this is exactly what we have had in front of us all along. maggie haberman Unless the report has a lot of information that we’re not seeing, what we saw play out publicly is what was there. The attorney general made clear that this investigation was ending without a recommendation of more indictments. That includes sealed indictments. This is what we’re getting. It will now move to Capitol Hill, and Democrats will seek to get as much material as they can. But in terms of the part the president was really concerned about in terms of Mueller, that is over. michael barbaro So let’s talk about what Congress is going to do now. Congressional leaders have just received this letter. Mike, you have told us in the past that Democrats were going to be very cautious in how they proceeded under any circumstances. And that if Mueller didn’t find the sort of thing that would force even Republicans in Congress to acknowledge that the president had violated the law, impeachment proceedings would be very unlikely. And it seems like this letter is not at all what Democrats would have needed to move forward in that sort of way. michael schmidt I think it takes a lot of wind out of their sails. They basically have full-blown investigations into obstruction and collusion going on. And here, you have Mueller, someone who has far better tools than they will ever have to investigate, coming out and clearing the president on the Russia issue and giving a mixed message on obstruction that allows Barr to clear him there. It gives the Republicans a very good argument to say, why are you guys continuing to look at these issues? Why are you continuing to rummage around in the president’s life when we’ve received clarity on this from the Justice Department? So I think it hurts them. maggie haberman I think that you’re going to see Nancy Pelosi, the Democratic House speaker, proceed carefully. As of late evening Sunday, she still had not said anything about how she was going to handle this. And I think that you are going to see a lot of Republicans reminding Democrats that they were holding Robert Mueller up as this avatar of credibility when the investigation was going on, so that it is hard to now say, we need to know more, because we need to make a determination that he couldn’t. That will almost inevitably look very political. michael schmidt So the Democrats are going to ask for everything that Mueller had in the report. And it’s clear from the letter that a lot of obstruction of justice issues were looked at and detailed and analyzed. And the question is that if the Democrats get their hands on that, how damaging is the obstruction stuff? And is it strong enough to give Democrats more of an oomph on their obstruction investigation? michael barbaro Is it both of your understandings that Congress will get a full copy of the Mueller report that they can then examine for these answers? maggie haberman I don’t think that’s been resolved yet. michael schmidt That’s the big question. michael barbaro Maggie, after months of the president calling the Mueller investigation a witch hunt or worse, would it be better now for him to lean into that description or turn around and say, you know, this investigation is the gold star of investigations, and it says I’m in the clear? maggie haberman There are a lot of people in the White House who are encouraging the president to turn and say, this was a highly respected prosecutor who just said there was no collusion. And I hope we can all accept this and move on, and try to strike a healing note. It is the president’s political instinct to burrow into his base and say, this was a witch hunt, this was a hoax. And that is what I have heard a number of his advisers say publicly in the last few hours. It’s what his son said in a statement that he gave me. I think they are going to go full-on by telling people this was a waste of two years. This was an effort to undo an electoral result in 2016, and don’t let this happen again. michael barbaro And I wonder if you can explain for listeners why it wasn’t what you just said the president might call it — a waste of two years. A waste of everyone’s time and an effort to politically undermine him. maggie haberman It might have had the effect of undermining him. That might have been one of the impacts. But we do know, based on numerous assessments from the intelligence community, that Russians did seek to interfere in the 2016 election. We do know that there were many contacts between Russians and people involved in the Trump campaign. So trying to find out what was at the heart of that, one would think, was not a waste of time. And now there is an answer. There is a world in which the president could say, this gave me a clean bill of health, and now you can trust me going forward. michael barbaro Mike, I want to ask you the same question. What is your explanation for why this investigation was not a waste of time? michael schmidt Well, there were legitimate issues and questions that had to be answered. And along the way, the president took action after action that only made the perception that he did something wrong worse. He fired the F.B.I. director. He asked the F.B.I. director to end an investigation into whether his former national security adviser was talking improperly to the Russian ambassador. He said things publicly about the investigation time and time again to demonize the investigators. He criticized his own attorney general, who recused himself from the Russia investigation. He called Mueller’s team a bunch of angry Democrats. He made the perception worse. And there were things that he did that walked up to the line of obstruction and had to be looked at, that had to be sorted through. Whether it was to clear the president and say, hey, look, he did nothing wrong, for his sake, or to give the public some confidence that the president of the United States was not a Russian agent. michael barbaro So among the questions that had to be answered in an investigation into Russian interference in our election, regardless of the answer, was what was the president’s role in this? And it happens to be that the answer was seemingly nothing illegal. But that answer had to be unearthed. michael schmidt A significant portion of the country thought that the president of the United States either wittingly or unwittingly had worked with a foreign adversary to influence the election. That was something that had to be looked into. michael barbaro And because he didn’t do that, Bill Barr also believes he did not obstruct this investigation. michael schmidt There was nothing to obstruct. maggie haberman At least that’s what they found. michael barbaro No one asked me, but — maggie haberman Michael, what do you think? michael barbaro I think that Russia could never have fathomed just how cosmically disruptive their efforts to influence the election would be. maggie haberman I think they succeeded beyond their wildest dreams, yes. michael schmidt Look at how distracted we’ve been as a country because of this for the past two years. Think about all the other issues that we could have been talking about or looking at. This was an enormous, enormous distraction for the country. maggie haberman And for Donald Trump. michael barbaro Maggie, Mike, thank you very much. maggie haberman Thank you. michael schmidt Thanks for having us. archived recording (donald trump) So after a long look, after a long investigation, after so many people have been so badly hurt, after not looking at the other side, where a lot of bad things happened, a lot of horrible things happened, a lot of very bad things happened for our country, it was just announced there was no collusion with Russia. The most ridiculous thing I’ve ever heard — michael barbaro On Sunday afternoon, on his way back to Washington from his home in Florida, President Trump addressed the major findings of the Mueller report. archived recording (donald trump) There was no obstruction, and none whatsoever. And it was a complete and total exoneration. It’s a shame that our country had to go through this. To be honest, it’s a shame that your president has had to go through this for — before I even got elected, it began. And it began illegally. And hopefully, somebody is going to look at the other side. This was an illegal takedown that failed. And hopefully, somebody is going to be looking at the other side. So it’s complete — michael barbaro Not long after, the Democratic chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, Representative Jerry Nadler of New York, disputed the president’s characterization of the Mueller report during a news conference in New York. archived recording (jerry nadler) Earlier today, I received a four-page letter from Attorney General Barr outlining his summary of Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s report while making a few questionable legal arguments of his own. I take from this letter three points. First, President Trump is wrong. This report does not amount to a so-called “total exoneration.” michael barbaro Nadler seemed to accept Mueller’s conclusion that the president did not coordinate with Russia, but seized on less definitive statements made by Mueller and Barr about whether the president obstructed justice. archived recording (jerry nadler) The attorney general’s comments make it clear that Congress must step in to get the truth and provide full transparency to the American people. The president has not been exonerated by the special counsel. Yet the attorney general has decided not to go further or, apparently, to share those findings with the public. We cannot simply rely on what may be a hasty partisan interpretation of the facts. michael barbaro That’s it for “The Daily.” I’m Michael Barbaro. See you tomorrow. Hours later, Mr. Barr delivered his letter describing the special counsel’s findings to Congress. But congressional Democrats have demanded more, and the letter could be just the beginning of a lengthy constitutional battle between Congress and the Justice Department about whether Mr. Mueller’s full report will be made public. Democrats have also called for the attorney general to turn over all of the special counsel’s investigative files. Mr. Barr’s letter said that his “goal and intent” was to release as much of the Mueller report as possible, but warned that some of the report was based on grand jury material that “by law cannot be made public.” Mr. Barr planned at a later date to send lawmakers the detailed summary of Mr. Mueller’s full report that the attorney general is required under law to deliver to Capitol Hill. Lawmakers on Sunday also criticized Mr. Barr’s conclusion that the president had not obstructed justice — which requires making a determination about whether Mr. Trump had “corrupt intent” when he took steps to impede the investigation at different turns — when the special counsel’s team never questioned the president in person. After months of debate over a potential interview, Mr. Mueller’s investigators agreed to accept written answers from the president. Mr. Barr’s letter said that the Mueller report identified no actions that, in his and Mr. Rosenstein’s minds, “constitute obstructive conduct, had a nexus to a pending or contemplated proceeding, and were done with corrupt intent.” Mr. Barr did not consult Mr. Mueller in writing his letter to leaders of the congressional judiciary committees, a Justice Department official said on Sunday. Shortly after the release of the Mueller findings, Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, said on Twitter that he planned to call Mr. Barr to testify about what he said were “very concerning discrepancies and final decision making at the Justice Department.” The Russia investigation has buffeted the White House from the earliest days of the Trump administration, with many current and former aides to Mr. Trump brought for questioning to the special counsel’s warren of offices in a plain office building in downtown Washington. F.B.I. agents fanned out across the nation and traveled to numerous foreign countries. Members of Mr. Mueller’s team questioned some witnesses at airports after they landed in the United States. Ultimately, a half-dozen former Trump aides were indicted or convicted of crimes, most for conspiracy or lying to investigators. Twenty-five Russian intelligence operatives and experts in social media manipulation were charged last year in two extraordinarily detailed indictments released by the special counsel. The inquiry concluded without charging any Americans for conspiring with the Russian campaign. More than two years of criminal indictments and steady revelations about Trump campaign contacts with Russians reveal the scope of the special counsel investigation. The findings could bring closure for some who have obsessed over the myriad threads of a byzantine investigation. A cottage industry of Mueller watchers has spent months on social media and cable news debating thorny constitutional issues, spinning conspiracy theories and amassing encyclopedic details about once obscure figures — Carter Page, Konstantin V. Kilimnik, George Papadopoulos and others. How many minds it changes is another matter. Opinions have hardened over time, with many Americans already convinced they knew the answers before Mr. Mueller submitted his conclusions. Some believe that the special counsel’s previous indictments, twinned with voluminous news reporting, have already shown a conspiracy between the Trump campaign and the Kremlin. Some believe that the investigation is, as Mr. Trump has long described it, a “witch hunt.” To prove a conspiracy, former prosecutors said, Mr. Mueller’s team would have had to show that Mr. Trump or one or more of his associates agreed that Russia should interfere in the election through computer espionage, illegal use of social media or other criminal means. Campaign officials at times were eager to accept benefits from Russia’s covert operation. “I love it,” Donald Trump Jr., the president’s eldest son, responded when an intermediary said a Russian emissary wanted to give the campaign damaging information on Hillary Clinton at a Trump Tower meeting in June 2016. Mr. Trump himself urged Russia to try to unearth deleted emails from a private server Mrs. Clinton had used when she was secretary of state. And Roger J. Stone, Jr., the president’s longtime friend, tried to enlist intermediaries to connect with WikiLeaks, Russia’s chosen depository for Democratic emails stolen by Russian hackers. But absent an agreement with the Russian government to break the law, former Justice Department officials said, none of that made Mr. Trump or his associates into co-conspirators with the Kremlin. “There is a big difference between saying, ‘Gosh, I think WikiLeaks has the ability to hack into the Democratic National Committee computers’ and saying ‘We would like them to dump those out in the public, so let’s call them up and ask them to do that,’” said Mary McCord, a former top-ranking national security official at the Justice Department. The release of Mr. Mueller’s findings could force a decision by Democrats on a simmering issue they have said would wait until the investigation’s end: whether to begin impeachment proceedings against the president. Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California has said it would not be “worth it” to try to impeach Mr. Trump, but suggested she could change her mind if an overwhelming bipartisan consensus emerged. For months, the president and his lawyers have waged as much of a public relations campaign as a legal one — trying to discredit the Mueller investigation to keep public opinion from swaying lawmakers to move against Mr. Trump. Here are some pieces of the jigsaw puzzle. The full picture is missing. Mr. Mueller’s work has proceeded in the face of blistering attacks by Mr. Trump and his allies, who painted the investigation as part of a relentless campaign by the “deep state” to reverse the results of the 2016 election. He was given a wide mandate — to investigate not only Russian election interference but also “any matters that may arise directly from that investigation.” Mr. Mueller has farmed out multiple aspects of his inquiry to several United States attorneys’ offices, and those investigations continue. Mr. Barr’s letter said that the special counsel’s office employed 19 lawyers and was assisted by about 40 F.B.I. agents, intelligence analysts, forensic accountants and other staff. About 500 witnesses were interviewed, and 13 foreign governments were asked to turn over evidence. Over all, the special counsel’s office issued more than 2,800 subpoenas, executed nearly 500 search warrants and obtained more than 230 orders for communications records. The Justice Department regulations governing the Mueller inquiry only required the special counsel to give a succinct, confidential report to the attorney general explaining his decisions to either seek — or decline to seek — further criminal charges. Mr. Mueller operated under tighter restrictions than similar past inquiries, notably the investigation of President Bill Clinton by Ken Starr, who ended up delivering a 445-page report in 1998 that contained lascivious details about an affair the president had with a White House intern. Mr. Mueller will not recommend new indictments, ending speculation that he might charge some of Mr. Trump’s aides in the future. The Justice Department’s general practice is not to identify the targets of its investigations if prosecutors decide not to bring charges, so as not to tarnish their reputations. Mr. Rosenstein emphasized this point in a speech last month. “It’s important,” Mr. Rosenstein said, “for government officials to refrain from making allegations of wrongdoing when they’re not backed by charges that we are prepared to prove in court.” Sharon LaFraniere contributed reporting.   Supported by Someday, Trump will not be in office. Congress needs a full accounting of his misdeeds to ensure they don’t happen again. By Jerrold L. Nadler Mr. Nadler is the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee. Last Sunday, Attorney General William Barr sent us a letter summarizing what he says are the “principal conclusions” of the special counsel, Robert Mueller. The next day, together with five other committee chairmen, I wrote back to the attorney general, demanding that he provide us with the full Mueller report — not a summary, but the full report and all of the relevant evidence — by April 2. For nearly two years, the country has waited to read the report. Over those many months, President Trump has raged against the institutions that make our democracy possible — among them, the free press, the courts and his own Department of Justice. When the special counsel indicted members of the president’s inner circle, his attacks got louder. Before the formal investigation began, Mr. Trump fired his F.B.I. director. He later fired his attorney general. He reportedly attempted to fire the special counsel himself. Despite this profoundly unacceptable behavior, the special counsel persevered and wrote his report. We — the members of the Judiciary Committee, the House of Representatives and the entire American public — are still waiting to see that report. We will not wait much longer. We have an obligation to read the full report, and the Department of Justice has an obligation to provide it, in its entirely, without delay. If the department is unwilling to produce the full report voluntarily, then we will do everything in our power to secure it for ourselves.  The entire reason for appointing the special counsel was to protect the investigation from political influence. By offering us his version of events in lieu of the report, the attorney general, a recent political appointee, undermines the work and the integrity of his department. He also denies the public the transparency it deserves. We require the full report — the special counsel’s words, not the attorney general’s summary or a redacted version. We require the report, first, because Congress, not the attorney general, has a duty under the Constitution to determine whether wrongdoing has occurred. The special counsel declined to make a “traditional prosecutorial judgment” on the question of obstruction, but it is not the attorney general’s job to step in and substitute his judgment for the special counsel’s.  That responsibility falls to Congress — and specifically to the House Judiciary Committee — as it has in every similar investigation in modern history. The attorney general’s recent proposal to redact the special counsel’s report before we receive it is unprecedented. We require the evidence, not whatever remains after the report has been filtered by the president’s political appointee. On its face, the attorney general’s letter raises more questions than it answers. He tells us, for instance, that he declined to charge the president with obstruction in part because there was no underlying crime to obstruct.  Did he discuss that conclusion with Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein — who, while a federal prosecutor, routinely charged individuals with obstruction without charging the underlying crime? Did the attorney general forget that the special counsel indicted 37 other people, including the president’s campaign chairman, deputy campaign chairman and former national security adviser, for various crimes, including conspiracy against the United States? Did he lose track of his own prosecutors, who effectively named the president as an unindicted co-conspirator in the Southern District of New York? Second, we require the report because Congress has a role that is fundamentally different from that of the Department of Justice. The special counsel’s mandate was narrow: investigate allegedly criminal conduct stemming from links between the Trump campaign and the Russian government. Our job is to hold the president accountable any time he undermines the rule of law, and is not limited to his involvement with the Russian government during the campaign. Whether or not the president could have been charged with a crime, even the attorney general acknowledges the existence of evidence that has so far been hidden from view. We have every reason to suspect that the unedited obstruction section of the Mueller report resembles the report that Congress received from the Watergate grand jury in 1974. That evidence showed that President Richard Nixon had attempted to obstruct justice. It did not recommend that the president should be prosecuted. It did not say the president should be impeached. It simply stated the evidence so that Congress could do its job. Finally, we require the report because one day, one way or another, the country will move on from President Trump. We must make it harder for future presidents to behave this way. We need a full accounting of the president’s actions to do that work.  When the full scope of the president’s misconduct has been revealed, when his lies are debunked and his abuses have been laid bare, I believe that members of Congress on both sides of the aisle will draft legislation to curb the worst of his offenses. Put another way: If President Trump’s behavior wasn’t criminal, then perhaps it should have been. Jerrold L. Nadler, a Democrat from New York, is the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported by Someday, Trump will not be in office. Congress needs a full accounting of his misdeeds to ensure they don’t happen again. By Jerrold L. Nadler Mr. Nadler is the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee. Last Sunday, Attorney General William Barr sent us a letter summarizing what he says are the “principal conclusions” of the special counsel, Robert Mueller. The next day, together with five other committee chairmen, I wrote back to the attorney general, demanding that he provide us with the full Mueller report — not a summary, but the full report and all of the relevant evidence — by April 2. For nearly two years, the country has waited to read the report. Over those many months, President Trump has raged against the institutions that make our democracy possible — among them, the free press, the courts and his own Department of Justice. When the special counsel indicted members of the president’s inner circle, his attacks got louder. Before the formal investigation began, Mr. Trump fired his F.B.I. director. He later fired his attorney general. He reportedly attempted to fire the special counsel himself. Despite this profoundly unacceptable behavior, the special counsel persevered and wrote his report. We — the members of the Judiciary Committee, the House of Representatives and the entire American public — are still waiting to see that report. We will not wait much longer. We have an obligation to read the full report, and the Department of Justice has an obligation to provide it, in its entirely, without delay. If the department is unwilling to produce the full report voluntarily, then we will do everything in our power to secure it for ourselves.  The entire reason for appointing the special counsel was to protect the investigation from political influence. By offering us his version of events in lieu of the report, the attorney general, a recent political appointee, undermines the work and the integrity of his department. He also denies the public the transparency it deserves. We require the full report — the special counsel’s words, not the attorney general’s summary or a redacted version. We require the report, first, because Congress, not the attorney general, has a duty under the Constitution to determine whether wrongdoing has occurred. The special counsel declined to make a “traditional prosecutorial judgment” on the question of obstruction, but it is not the attorney general’s job to step in and substitute his judgment for the special counsel’s.  That responsibility falls to Congress — and specifically to the House Judiciary Committee — as it has in every similar investigation in modern history. The attorney general’s recent proposal to redact the special counsel’s report before we receive it is unprecedented. We require the evidence, not whatever remains after the report has been filtered by the president’s political appointee. On its face, the attorney general’s letter raises more questions than it answers. He tells us, for instance, that he declined to charge the president with obstruction in part because there was no underlying crime to obstruct.  Did he discuss that conclusion with Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein — who, while a federal prosecutor, routinely charged individuals with obstruction without charging the underlying crime? Did the attorney general forget that the special counsel indicted 37 other people, including the president’s campaign chairman, deputy campaign chairman and former national security adviser, for various crimes, including conspiracy against the United States? Did he lose track of his own prosecutors, who effectively named the president as an unindicted co-conspirator in the Southern District of New York? Second, we require the report because Congress has a role that is fundamentally different from that of the Department of Justice. The special counsel’s mandate was narrow: investigate allegedly criminal conduct stemming from links between the Trump campaign and the Russian government. Our job is to hold the president accountable any time he undermines the rule of law, and is not limited to his involvement with the Russian government during the campaign. Whether or not the president could have been charged with a crime, even the attorney general acknowledges the existence of evidence that has so far been hidden from view. We have every reason to suspect that the unedited obstruction section of the Mueller report resembles the report that Congress received from the Watergate grand jury in 1974. That evidence showed that President Richard Nixon had attempted to obstruct justice. It did not recommend that the president should be prosecuted. It did not say the president should be impeached. It simply stated the evidence so that Congress could do its job. Finally, we require the report because one day, one way or another, the country will move on from President Trump. We must make it harder for future presidents to behave this way. We need a full accounting of the president’s actions to do that work.  When the full scope of the president’s misconduct has been revealed, when his lies are debunked and his abuses have been laid bare, I believe that members of Congress on both sides of the aisle will draft legislation to curb the worst of his offenses. Put another way: If President Trump’s behavior wasn’t criminal, then perhaps it should have been. Jerrold L. Nadler, a Democrat from New York, is the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — Public at last, special counsel Robert Mueller's report revealed to a waiting nation Thursday that President Donald Trump tried to seize control of the Russia probe and force Mueller's removal to stop him from investigating potential obstruction of justice by the president. Trump was largely thwarted by those around him who refused to go along. Mueller laid out multiple episodes in which Trump directed others to influence or curtail the Russia investigation after the special counsel's appointment in May 2017. Those efforts "were mostly unsuccessful, but that is largely because the persons who surrounded the President declined to carry out orders or accede to his requests," Mueller wrote. After nearly two years, the two-volume, 448-page redacted report made for riveting reading. In one particularly dramatic moment, Mueller reported that Trump was so agitated at the special counsel's appointment on May 17, 2017, that he slumped back in his chair and declared: "Oh my God. This is terrible. This is the end of my presidency. I'm f---ed." With that, Trump set out to save himself. In June of that year, Mueller wrote, Trump directed White House Counsel Don McGahn to call Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, who oversaw the probe, and say that Mueller must be ousted because he had conflicts of interest. McGahn refused — deciding he would sooner resign than trigger a potential crisis akin to the Saturday Night Massacre of firings during the Watergate era. Two days later, the president made another attempt to alter the course of the investigation, meeting with former campaign manager Corey Lewandowski and dictating a message for him to relay to then-Attorney General Jeff Sessions. The message: Sessions would publicly call the investigation "very unfair" to the president, declare Trump did nothing wrong and say Mueller should limit his probe to "investigating election meddling for future elections." The message was never delivered. The report's bottom line largely tracked the findings revealed in Attorney General William Barr's four-page memo released a month ago — no collusion with Russia but no clear verdict on obstruction — but it added new layers of detail about Trump's efforts to thwart the investigation. Looking ahead, both sides were already using the findings to amplify well-rehearsed arguments about Trump's conduct, Republicans casting him as a victim of harassment and Democrats depicting the president as stepping far over the line to derail the investigation. The Justice Department released its redacted version of the report about 90 minutes after Barr offered his own final assessment of the findings at a testy news conference. The nation, Congress and Trump's White House consumed it voraciously — online, via a compact disc delivered to legislators and in loose-leaf binders distributed to reporters. The release represented a moment of closure nearly two years in the making but also the starting bell for a new round of partisan warfare. A defiant Trump pronounced it "a good day" and tweeted "Game Over" in a typeface mimicking the "Game of Thrones" logo. By late afternoon, he was airborne for his Mar-a-Lago private club in Florida with wife Melania for the holiday weekend. Top Republicans in Congress saw vindication, too. House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy said it was time to move on from Democrats' effort to "vilify a political opponent." The California lawmaker said the report failed to deliver the "imaginary evidence" incriminating Trump that Democrats had sought. Trump campaign manager Brad Parscale said Republicans should turn the tables and "investigate the liars who instigated this sham investigation." But Democrats cried foul over Barr's preemptive press conference and said the report revealed troubling details about Trump's conduct in the White House. In a joint statement, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer wrote that "one thing is clear: Attorney General Barr presented a conclusion that the president did not obstruct justice while Mueller's report appears to undercut that finding." House Judiciary Chairman Jerrold Nadler added that the report "outlines disturbing evidence that President Trump engaged in obstruction of justice and other misconduct." He sent a letter to the Justice Department requesting that Mueller himself testify before his panel "no later than May 23" and said he'd be issuing a subpoena for the full special counsel report and the underlying materials. Signaling battles ahead, Nadler earlier called the investigation "incredibly thorough" work that would preserve evidence for future probes. Barr said he wouldn't object to Mueller testifying. Trump himself was never questioned in person, but the report's appendix includes 12 pages of his written responses to queries from Mueller's team. Mueller deemed Trump's written answers — rife with iterations of "I don't recall" — to be "inadequate." He considered issuing a subpoena to force the president to appear in person but decided against it after weighing the likelihood of a long legal battle. In his written answers, Trump said his comment during a 2016 political rally asking Russian hackers to help find emails scrubbed from Hillary Clinton's private server was made "in jest and sarcastically" and said he did not recall being told during the campaign of any Russian effort to infiltrate or hack computer systems. But Mueller said that within five hours of Trump's comment, Russian military intelligence officers were targeting email accounts connected to Clinton's office. Mueller evaluated nearly a dozen episodes for possible obstruction of justice, and said he could not conclusively determine that Trump had committed criminal obstruction. The episodes included Trump's firing of FBI Director James Comey, the president's directive to subordinates to have Mueller fired and efforts to encourage witnesses not to cooperate. Sessions was so affected by Trump's frequent criticism of him for recusing himself from the investigation that he kept a resignation letter "with him in his pocket every time he went to the White House," Mueller said. The president's lawyers have said Trump's conduct fell within his constitutional powers, but Mueller's team deemed the episodes deserving of scrutiny for potential criminal acts. As for the question of whether the Trump campaign had colluded with Russia during the 2016 presidential campaign, Mueller wrote that the campaign "expected it would benefit electorally from information stolen and released through Russian efforts." But Mueller said investigators concluded, "While the investigation identified numerous links between individuals with ties to the Russian government and individuals associated with the Trump Campaign, the evidence was not sufficient to support criminal charges." Workers at a Russian troll farm contacted Trump's campaign, claiming to be political activists for conservative grassroots organizations, and asked for signs and other campaign materials to use at rallies. While volunteers provided some of those materials — and set aside a number of signs — investigators don't believe any Trump campaign officials knew the requests were coming from foreign nationals, Mueller wrote. Mueller wrote that investigators "did not establish that members of the Trump campaign conspired or coordinated with the Russian government in its election interference activities." Josh Blackman, a professor at the South Texas College of Law Houston, stressed that Mueller didn't think the president's obligations to run the executive branch entitled him to absolute immunity from prosecution. But to find that the president obstructed justice, he said, Mueller would have needed much clearer evidence that the president acted solely with "corrupt intent." "The evidence was sort of muddled," Blackman said, adding that the president's actions had multiple motivations. The report laid out some of Mueller's reasoning for drawing no conclusion on the question of obstruction. Mueller wrote that he would have exonerated Trump if he could, but he wasn't able to do that given the evidence he uncovered. And he said the Justice Department's standing opinion that a sitting president couldn't be indicted meant he also couldn't recommend Trump be criminally charged, even in secret. Trump's written responses addressed no questions about obstruction of justice, as was part of an agreement with Trump's legal team. He told Mueller he had "no recollection" of learning in advance about the much-scrutinized Trump Tower meeting between campaign officials and a Russian lawyer. He also said he had no recollection of knowledge about emails setting up the meeting that promised dirt on Clinton's Democratic campaign. He broadly denied knowing of any foreign government trying to help his campaign, including the Russian government. He said he was aware of some reports that Russian President Vladimir Putin had made "complimentary statements" about him. It wasn't just Trump under the microscope. But Mueller wrote that he believed prosecutors would be unlikely to meet the burden of proof to show that Donald Trump Jr. and other participants in the Trump Tower meeting "had general knowledge that their conduct was unlawful." Nor did Mueller's probe develop evidence that they knew that foreign contributions to campaigns were illegal or other particulars of federal law. Barr's contention that the report contained only "limited redactions" applied more to the obstruction of justice section than its look at Russian election meddling. Overall, about 40 percent of the pages contained at least something that was blocked out, mostly to protect ongoing investigations. Barr had said that he would redact grand jury information and material related to investigations, privacy and intelligence. ___ AP writers Zeke Miller, Mary Clare Jalonick, Lisa Mascaro, Dustin Weaver, Deb Riechmann, Susannah George, Michael R. Sisak, Stephen Braun, Jill Colvin, Jonathan Lemire, Darlene Superville, Jessica Gresko, Mark Sherman, Julie Pace and Elizabeth Kennedy contributed to this report. ___ For complete coverage of the Mueller report, go to https://www.apnews.com/TrumpInvestigations

Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — Public at last, special counsel Robert Mueller's report revealed to a waiting nation Thursday that President Donald Trump tried to seize control of the Russia probe and force Mueller's removal to stop him from investigating potential obstruction of justice by the president. Trump was largely thwarted by those around him who refused to go along. Mueller laid out multiple episodes in which Trump directed others to influence or curtail the Russia investigation after the special counsel's appointment in May 2017. Those efforts "were mostly unsuccessful, but that is largely because the persons who surrounded the President declined to carry out orders or accede to his requests," Mueller wrote. After nearly two years, the two-volume, 448-page redacted report made for riveting reading. In one particularly dramatic moment, Mueller reported that Trump was so agitated at the special counsel's appointment on May 17, 2017, that he slumped back in his chair and declared: "Oh my God. This is terrible. This is the end of my presidency. I'm f---ed." With that, Trump set out to save himself. In June of that year, Mueller wrote, Trump directed White House Counsel Don McGahn to call Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, who oversaw the probe, and say that Mueller must be ousted because he had conflicts of interest. McGahn refused — deciding he would sooner resign than trigger a potential crisis akin to the Saturday Night Massacre of firings during the Watergate era. Two days later, the president made another attempt to alter the course of the investigation, meeting with former campaign manager Corey Lewandowski and dictating a message for him to relay to then-Attorney General Jeff Sessions. The message: Sessions would publicly call the investigation "very unfair" to the president, declare Trump did nothing wrong and say Mueller should limit his probe to "investigating election meddling for future elections." The message was never delivered. The report's bottom line largely tracked the findings revealed in Attorney General William Barr's four-page memo released a month ago — no collusion with Russia but no clear verdict on obstruction — but it added new layers of detail about Trump's efforts to thwart the investigation. Looking ahead, both sides were already using the findings to amplify well-rehearsed arguments about Trump's conduct, Republicans casting him as a victim of harassment and Democrats depicting the president as stepping far over the line to derail the investigation. The Justice Department released its redacted version of the report about 90 minutes after Barr offered his own final assessment of the findings at a testy news conference. The nation, Congress and Trump's White House consumed it voraciously — online, via a compact disc delivered to legislators and in loose-leaf binders distributed to reporters. The release represented a moment of closure nearly two years in the making but also the starting bell for a new round of partisan warfare. A defiant Trump pronounced it "a good day" and tweeted "Game Over" in a typeface mimicking the "Game of Thrones" logo. By late afternoon, he was airborne for his Mar-a-Lago private club in Florida with wife Melania for the holiday weekend. Top Republicans in Congress saw vindication, too. House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy said it was time to move on from Democrats' effort to "vilify a political opponent." The California lawmaker said the report failed to deliver the "imaginary evidence" incriminating Trump that Democrats had sought. Trump campaign manager Brad Parscale said Republicans should turn the tables and "investigate the liars who instigated this sham investigation." But Democrats cried foul over Barr's preemptive press conference and said the report revealed troubling details about Trump's conduct in the White House. In a joint statement, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer wrote that "one thing is clear: Attorney General Barr presented a conclusion that the president did not obstruct justice while Mueller's report appears to undercut that finding." House Judiciary Chairman Jerrold Nadler added that the report "outlines disturbing evidence that President Trump engaged in obstruction of justice and other misconduct." He sent a letter to the Justice Department requesting that Mueller himself testify before his panel "no later than May 23" and said he'd be issuing a subpoena for the full special counsel report and the underlying materials. Signaling battles ahead, Nadler earlier called the investigation "incredibly thorough" work that would preserve evidence for future probes. Barr said he wouldn't object to Mueller testifying. Trump himself was never questioned in person, but the report's appendix includes 12 pages of his written responses to queries from Mueller's team. Mueller deemed Trump's written answers — rife with iterations of "I don't recall" — to be "inadequate." He considered issuing a subpoena to force the president to appear in person but decided against it after weighing the likelihood of a long legal battle. In his written answers, Trump said his comment during a 2016 political rally asking Russian hackers to help find emails scrubbed from Hillary Clinton's private server was made "in jest and sarcastically" and said he did not recall being told during the campaign of any Russian effort to infiltrate or hack computer systems. But Mueller said that within five hours of Trump's comment, Russian military intelligence officers were targeting email accounts connected to Clinton's office. Mueller evaluated nearly a dozen episodes for possible obstruction of justice, and said he could not conclusively determine that Trump had committed criminal obstruction. The episodes included Trump's firing of FBI Director James Comey, the president's directive to subordinates to have Mueller fired and efforts to encourage witnesses not to cooperate. Sessions was so affected by Trump's frequent criticism of him for recusing himself from the investigation that he kept a resignation letter "with him in his pocket every time he went to the White House," Mueller said. The president's lawyers have said Trump's conduct fell within his constitutional powers, but Mueller's team deemed the episodes deserving of scrutiny for potential criminal acts. As for the question of whether the Trump campaign had colluded with Russia during the 2016 presidential campaign, Mueller wrote that the campaign "expected it would benefit electorally from information stolen and released through Russian efforts." But Mueller said investigators concluded, "While the investigation identified numerous links between individuals with ties to the Russian government and individuals associated with the Trump Campaign, the evidence was not sufficient to support criminal charges." Workers at a Russian troll farm contacted Trump's campaign, claiming to be political activists for conservative grassroots organizations, and asked for signs and other campaign materials to use at rallies. While volunteers provided some of those materials — and set aside a number of signs — investigators don't believe any Trump campaign officials knew the requests were coming from foreign nationals, Mueller wrote. Mueller wrote that investigators "did not establish that members of the Trump campaign conspired or coordinated with the Russian government in its election interference activities." Josh Blackman, a professor at the South Texas College of Law Houston, stressed that Mueller didn't think the president's obligations to run the executive branch entitled him to absolute immunity from prosecution. But to find that the president obstructed justice, he said, Mueller would have needed much clearer evidence that the president acted solely with "corrupt intent." "The evidence was sort of muddled," Blackman said, adding that the president's actions had multiple motivations. The report laid out some of Mueller's reasoning for drawing no conclusion on the question of obstruction. Mueller wrote that he would have exonerated Trump if he could, but he wasn't able to do that given the evidence he uncovered. And he said the Justice Department's standing opinion that a sitting president couldn't be indicted meant he also couldn't recommend Trump be criminally charged, even in secret. Trump's written responses addressed no questions about obstruction of justice, as was part of an agreement with Trump's legal team. He told Mueller he had "no recollection" of learning in advance about the much-scrutinized Trump Tower meeting between campaign officials and a Russian lawyer. He also said he had no recollection of knowledge about emails setting up the meeting that promised dirt on Clinton's Democratic campaign. He broadly denied knowing of any foreign government trying to help his campaign, including the Russian government. He said he was aware of some reports that Russian President Vladimir Putin had made "complimentary statements" about him. It wasn't just Trump under the microscope. But Mueller wrote that he believed prosecutors would be unlikely to meet the burden of proof to show that Donald Trump Jr. and other participants in the Trump Tower meeting "had general knowledge that their conduct was unlawful." Nor did Mueller's probe develop evidence that they knew that foreign contributions to campaigns were illegal or other particulars of federal law. Barr's contention that the report contained only "limited redactions" applied more to the obstruction of justice section than its look at Russian election meddling. Overall, about 40 percent of the pages contained at least something that was blocked out, mostly to protect ongoing investigations. Barr had said that he would redact grand jury information and material related to investigations, privacy and intelligence. ___ AP writers Zeke Miller, Mary Clare Jalonick, Lisa Mascaro, Dustin Weaver, Deb Riechmann, Susannah George, Michael R. Sisak, Stephen Braun, Jill Colvin, Jonathan Lemire, Darlene Superville, Jessica Gresko, Mark Sherman, Julie Pace and Elizabeth Kennedy contributed to this report. ___ For complete coverage of the Mueller report, go to https://www.apnews.com/TrumpInvestigationsSupported by letter A reader says William Barr should not be confirmed as attorney general if he refuses to commit to the full release of the investigative report. To the Editor: Re “Barr Makes Promise to Senate: He’ll Let Mueller Finish Inquiry” (front page, Jan. 16): Nothing less than the future well-being of the Republic lies in the balance as the Senate Judiciary Committee holds a hearing on the nomination of William Barr for attorney general.  It is evident that President Trump is acting in the interests of a foreign power and contrary to American interests. It is unthinkable to confirm a nominee for attorney general who equivocates about the release of the extensive investigative report by Robert Mueller that every member of Congress must be permitted to see in full.  If Mr. Barr cannot straight out commit to the release of Mr. Mueller’s full report to Congress, with some possible redactions of the names of nongovernment individuals for reasons of their safety, then Mr. Barr must be unanimously voted down in committee. This is not the time to play with fire.  Congress must have the information it needs to fully evaluate the role that Mr. Trump has played in what is the undeniable large-scale undermining of American security. Joe GrossmanBoulder, Colo.

Supported by letter A reader says William Barr should not be confirmed as attorney general if he refuses to commit to the full release of the investigative report. To the Editor: Re “Barr Makes Promise to Senate: He’ll Let Mueller Finish Inquiry” (front page, Jan. 16): Nothing less than the future well-being of the Republic lies in the balance as the Senate Judiciary Committee holds a hearing on the nomination of William Barr for attorney general.  It is evident that President Trump is acting in the interests of a foreign power and contrary to American interests. It is unthinkable to confirm a nominee for attorney general who equivocates about the release of the extensive investigative report by Robert Mueller that every member of Congress must be permitted to see in full.  If Mr. Barr cannot straight out commit to the release of Mr. Mueller’s full report to Congress, with some possible redactions of the names of nongovernment individuals for reasons of their safety, then Mr. Barr must be unanimously voted down in committee. This is not the time to play with fire.  Congress must have the information it needs to fully evaluate the role that Mr. Trump has played in what is the undeniable large-scale undermining of American security. Joe GrossmanBoulder, Colo.Supported by By The Associated Press NEW YORK — Days after the FBI raided Michael Cohen's home and office last year, President Donald Trump called his longtime fixer and urged him to "stay strong" and "hang in there" in the face of the intensifying investigation. That call was among several assurances Cohen says he received that the White House would have his back so long as he "stayed on message," special counsel Robert Mueller said in his long-awaited report on his Trump investigation. The redacted 448-page document was made public Thursday. Mueller's team said it found evidence to suggest that the president intended to discourage Cohen from cooperating with federal authorities, noting among other things that after Cohen flipped on his boss, Trump branded him a "rat" and publicly suggested Cohen's family members had committed crimes. Ultimately, however, the special counsel reached no conclusion on whether Trump obstructed justice. And last month, upon receiving Mueller's report, Attorney General William Barr decided Trump shouldn't be prosecuted. Cohen, 52, is set to report to prison next month to begin serving a three-year sentence after pleading guilty to crimes that included lying to Congress about a Trump Tower project in Moscow and arranging the payment of hush money to a porn star and a Playboy centerfold who claimed to have had affairs with Trump. The Mueller report, though blacked out in places, offers a window into the quiet support Cohen received from Trump before he turned on his longtime boss and began cooperating with federal prosecutors. In the months after the April 2018 raid against Cohen by the FBI, Trump associates sought to assure him that the president intended to take care of him. Someone associated with the Trump Organization — whose name is blacked out of the report — told Cohen that "everyone knows the boss has your back." Another time, a friend of the president's reached out to tell Cohen that he was with "the Boss" at Mar-a-Lago and that Trump said "he loves you" and not to worry, according to the report. Cohen "believed he needed the power of the President to take care of him," he told Mueller's team, noting his legal fees were still being paid at the time by the Trump Organization. But Cohen grew increasingly worried and asked one Trump attorney "what was in it for him," the report says. Cohen "discussed pardons with the President's personal counsel and believed that if he stayed on message he would be taken care of." By June 2018, however, he had broken with the president, saying in an interview that he needed to put family and country ahead of his loyalty to Trump. Trump reacted by lashing out at him and later, in what Cohen regarded as a threat, accused Cohen family members of illegal acts. "The evidence concerning this sequence of events," the Mueller report says, "could support an inference that the President used inducements in the form of positive messages in an effort to get Cohen not to cooperate, and then turned to attacks and intimidation to deter the provision of information or undermine Cohen's credibility once Cohen began cooperating." Some of Cohen's statements to Mueller's team were blacked out of the report. But Cohen attorney and spokesman Lanny Davis tweeted Thursday that Cohen has "7 days, 70 hours, + 100 pages of what #TeamMueller knows and can fill in the bulk of the redactions." Cohen himself tweeted: "Soon I will be ready to address the American people again ... tell it all ... and tell it myself!" It wasn't clear how or when he would do that.

Supported by By The Associated Press NEW YORK — Days after the FBI raided Michael Cohen's home and office last year, President Donald Trump called his longtime fixer and urged him to "stay strong" and "hang in there" in the face of the intensifying investigation. That call was among several assurances Cohen says he received that the White House would have his back so long as he "stayed on message," special counsel Robert Mueller said in his long-awaited report on his Trump investigation. The redacted 448-page document was made public Thursday. Mueller's team said it found evidence to suggest that the president intended to discourage Cohen from cooperating with federal authorities, noting among other things that after Cohen flipped on his boss, Trump branded him a "rat" and publicly suggested Cohen's family members had committed crimes. Ultimately, however, the special counsel reached no conclusion on whether Trump obstructed justice. And last month, upon receiving Mueller's report, Attorney General William Barr decided Trump shouldn't be prosecuted. Cohen, 52, is set to report to prison next month to begin serving a three-year sentence after pleading guilty to crimes that included lying to Congress about a Trump Tower project in Moscow and arranging the payment of hush money to a porn star and a Playboy centerfold who claimed to have had affairs with Trump. The Mueller report, though blacked out in places, offers a window into the quiet support Cohen received from Trump before he turned on his longtime boss and began cooperating with federal prosecutors. In the months after the April 2018 raid against Cohen by the FBI, Trump associates sought to assure him that the president intended to take care of him. Someone associated with the Trump Organization — whose name is blacked out of the report — told Cohen that "everyone knows the boss has your back." Another time, a friend of the president's reached out to tell Cohen that he was with "the Boss" at Mar-a-Lago and that Trump said "he loves you" and not to worry, according to the report. Cohen "believed he needed the power of the President to take care of him," he told Mueller's team, noting his legal fees were still being paid at the time by the Trump Organization. But Cohen grew increasingly worried and asked one Trump attorney "what was in it for him," the report says. Cohen "discussed pardons with the President's personal counsel and believed that if he stayed on message he would be taken care of." By June 2018, however, he had broken with the president, saying in an interview that he needed to put family and country ahead of his loyalty to Trump. Trump reacted by lashing out at him and later, in what Cohen regarded as a threat, accused Cohen family members of illegal acts. "The evidence concerning this sequence of events," the Mueller report says, "could support an inference that the President used inducements in the form of positive messages in an effort to get Cohen not to cooperate, and then turned to attacks and intimidation to deter the provision of information or undermine Cohen's credibility once Cohen began cooperating." Some of Cohen's statements to Mueller's team were blacked out of the report. But Cohen attorney and spokesman Lanny Davis tweeted Thursday that Cohen has "7 days, 70 hours, + 100 pages of what #TeamMueller knows and can fill in the bulk of the redactions." Cohen himself tweeted: "Soon I will be ready to address the American people again ... tell it all ... and tell it myself!" It wasn't clear how or when he would do that.Supported by By Niraj Chokshi The political news cycle is fast, and keeping up can be overwhelming. Trying to find differing perspectives worth your time is even harder. That’s why we have scoured the internet for writing from across the political spectrum that you might not have seen. There is no shortage of opinions about the Mueller report, which was released on Thursday. Here’s a look at what the writers of opinion articles and editorials are saying should happen next, what they think the report proves and what they say it shows about the United States. It’s time for impeachment, some say. For these writers, the report by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, simply underscores the need for Congress to oust the president. What the report “shows, with crystal clarity, is that today there is a cancer in the presidency: President Donald J. Trump,” George Conway, a lawyer and husband to the White House counselor Kellyanne Conway, wrote in The Washington Post. Not to proceed with impeachment would be an “act of unparalleled moral cowardice” for Democrats, David Faris, a political science professor, wrote in The Week.  Yoni Appelbaum, an editor at The Atlantic, argued that Mr. Trump should welcome an impeachment proceeding, which would give him a chance to clear his name once and for all. But some have argued that such a move could backfire for Democrats. “Moving to impeach Trump now would only make him stronger,” Scott Martelle wrote in The Los Angeles Times.  Democrats should move on, conservatives say. These writers argued that the report shows that liberals have overstepped. “The Democrats’ ardent defense of the special prosecutor’s independence is now seen as bad faith,” wrote Daniel Henninger, deputy editor of The Wall Street Journal’s editorial page. Elizabeth Harrington, the national spokeswoman for the Republican National Committee, wrote in The Hill: “It is time for Democrats to accept reality.” “If they now reject his findings, they’ll be party to a process more damaging than anything Trump has done,” Abe Greenwald, the senior editor of Commentary, wrote in The New York Post. New York’s former mayor called for reforms. Writing for the publication he founded, Michael Bloomberg said impeachment is not necessary but argued that Congress should act on other matters raised by the report: “New legislation is needed to protect American campaigns and voting systems against future attacks.” The case for obstruction. The Mueller report punted on whether President Trump obstructed justice, but several commentators said it showed that he had. “I don’t know if his actions meet the legal standard of obstruction of justice, but they certainly meet the common-sense standard of interference with justice,” wrote David Brooks of The New York Times. Cass R. Sunstein, a former official in the Obama White House and a Harvard Law School professor, argued that Mr. Mueller likely concluded that “the evidence probably makes out a crime, but because the president cannot be indicted, and because there can’t be a trial, I’m not going to say so.” The case against the media.  Glenn Greenwald of the Intercept accused Democrats and news organizations of perpetrating a “hoax,” arguing that the report “simply did not establish any of the conspiracy theories that huge parts of the Democratic Party, the intelligence community and the U.S. media spent years encouraging the public to believe.”  David Harsanyi, a senior editor at The Federalist, agreed, arguing in The New York Post that journalists should “be focusing on exoneration rather than theorizing about obstruction.” The system works. A Washington Post columnist, David Ignatius, said that the Mueller report “affirmed that the fundamentals of accountability are still intact despite Trump’s best efforts to rig the system.” Verdicts on President Trump.  Jacob Sullum, a senior editor at the libertarian magazine Reason, argued that while there may be insufficient proof that Mr. Trump obstructed justice, there’s plenty of evidence of hubris: “Over and over again, he opened his mouth when he should have kept it shut, lied clumsily and transparently.”  “It is a deeply damning description of the president of the United States,” wrote Ezra Klein, co-founder of Vox. “What the report portrays, in numbing legalese and revealing footnotes, is a breathtaking culture of lying and impunity, distrust and double-dealing,” wrote Susan B. Glasser of The New Yorker. “Neither [Attorney General William] Barr nor Mueller’s report itself has answered a crucial question: Is Trump a threat to U.S. national security?” Seth Hettena, an investigative reporter, wrote in The Los Angeles Times. The judgment on Mueller. “He was the wrong man to provide an honest assessment of the 2016 collusion dirty trick,” argued Kimberley Strassel, a member of The Wall Street Journal’s editorial board. “And we’ve got a report to prove it.” Others argued that Mueller’s institutionalism kept him from going far enough: “By protecting the presidency, Mueller has hurt the country,” Paul Rosenzweig, a senior fellow at the R Street Institute and a principal at Red Branch Consulting, wrote in The Atlantic. What Barr got right — and wrong. Some accused Mr. Barr, who previewed the report in a news conference, of trying to steer the narrative, prioritizing the interests of President Trump over those of the American people. “His account was selective at best, and false at worse,” Nancy Gertner, a retired federal judge and a professor at Harvard Law School, wrote in The Boston Globe. Others defended Mr. Barr. In The Times, Christopher Buskirk, editor and publisher of the journal American Greatness, agreed with the attorney general’s suggestion that the president was frustrated by the Mueller investigation and felt that it was undermining his presidency. “He was right. And it was obvious in places like Arizona (where I live), but not in Washington or New York,” Mr. Buskirk said. Liam Stack contributed reporting. OpinionThe Editorial Board OpinionChristopher Buskirk OpinionCaroline Fredrickson

Supported by By Niraj Chokshi The political news cycle is fast, and keeping up can be overwhelming. Trying to find differing perspectives worth your time is even harder. That’s why we have scoured the internet for writing from across the political spectrum that you might not have seen. There is no shortage of opinions about the Mueller report, which was released on Thursday. Here’s a look at what the writers of opinion articles and editorials are saying should happen next, what they think the report proves and what they say it shows about the United States. It’s time for impeachment, some say. For these writers, the report by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, simply underscores the need for Congress to oust the president. What the report “shows, with crystal clarity, is that today there is a cancer in the presidency: President Donald J. Trump,” George Conway, a lawyer and husband to the White House counselor Kellyanne Conway, wrote in The Washington Post. Not to proceed with impeachment would be an “act of unparalleled moral cowardice” for Democrats, David Faris, a political science professor, wrote in The Week.  Yoni Appelbaum, an editor at The Atlantic, argued that Mr. Trump should welcome an impeachment proceeding, which would give him a chance to clear his name once and for all. But some have argued that such a move could backfire for Democrats. “Moving to impeach Trump now would only make him stronger,” Scott Martelle wrote in The Los Angeles Times.  Democrats should move on, conservatives say. These writers argued that the report shows that liberals have overstepped. “The Democrats’ ardent defense of the special prosecutor’s independence is now seen as bad faith,” wrote Daniel Henninger, deputy editor of The Wall Street Journal’s editorial page. Elizabeth Harrington, the national spokeswoman for the Republican National Committee, wrote in The Hill: “It is time for Democrats to accept reality.” “If they now reject his findings, they’ll be party to a process more damaging than anything Trump has done,” Abe Greenwald, the senior editor of Commentary, wrote in The New York Post. New York’s former mayor called for reforms. Writing for the publication he founded, Michael Bloomberg said impeachment is not necessary but argued that Congress should act on other matters raised by the report: “New legislation is needed to protect American campaigns and voting systems against future attacks.” The case for obstruction. The Mueller report punted on whether President Trump obstructed justice, but several commentators said it showed that he had. “I don’t know if his actions meet the legal standard of obstruction of justice, but they certainly meet the common-sense standard of interference with justice,” wrote David Brooks of The New York Times. Cass R. Sunstein, a former official in the Obama White House and a Harvard Law School professor, argued that Mr. Mueller likely concluded that “the evidence probably makes out a crime, but because the president cannot be indicted, and because there can’t be a trial, I’m not going to say so.” The case against the media.  Glenn Greenwald of the Intercept accused Democrats and news organizations of perpetrating a “hoax,” arguing that the report “simply did not establish any of the conspiracy theories that huge parts of the Democratic Party, the intelligence community and the U.S. media spent years encouraging the public to believe.”  David Harsanyi, a senior editor at The Federalist, agreed, arguing in The New York Post that journalists should “be focusing on exoneration rather than theorizing about obstruction.” The system works. A Washington Post columnist, David Ignatius, said that the Mueller report “affirmed that the fundamentals of accountability are still intact despite Trump’s best efforts to rig the system.” Verdicts on President Trump.  Jacob Sullum, a senior editor at the libertarian magazine Reason, argued that while there may be insufficient proof that Mr. Trump obstructed justice, there’s plenty of evidence of hubris: “Over and over again, he opened his mouth when he should have kept it shut, lied clumsily and transparently.”  “It is a deeply damning description of the president of the United States,” wrote Ezra Klein, co-founder of Vox. “What the report portrays, in numbing legalese and revealing footnotes, is a breathtaking culture of lying and impunity, distrust and double-dealing,” wrote Susan B. Glasser of The New Yorker. “Neither [Attorney General William] Barr nor Mueller’s report itself has answered a crucial question: Is Trump a threat to U.S. national security?” Seth Hettena, an investigative reporter, wrote in The Los Angeles Times. The judgment on Mueller. “He was the wrong man to provide an honest assessment of the 2016 collusion dirty trick,” argued Kimberley Strassel, a member of The Wall Street Journal’s editorial board. “And we’ve got a report to prove it.” Others argued that Mueller’s institutionalism kept him from going far enough: “By protecting the presidency, Mueller has hurt the country,” Paul Rosenzweig, a senior fellow at the R Street Institute and a principal at Red Branch Consulting, wrote in The Atlantic. What Barr got right — and wrong. Some accused Mr. Barr, who previewed the report in a news conference, of trying to steer the narrative, prioritizing the interests of President Trump over those of the American people. “His account was selective at best, and false at worse,” Nancy Gertner, a retired federal judge and a professor at Harvard Law School, wrote in The Boston Globe. Others defended Mr. Barr. In The Times, Christopher Buskirk, editor and publisher of the journal American Greatness, agreed with the attorney general’s suggestion that the president was frustrated by the Mueller investigation and felt that it was undermining his presidency. “He was right. And it was obvious in places like Arizona (where I live), but not in Washington or New York,” Mr. Buskirk said. Liam Stack contributed reporting. OpinionThe Editorial Board OpinionChristopher Buskirk OpinionCaroline FredricksonSupported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — The Latest on Attorney General William Barr's testimony to Congress (all times local): 9:50 a.m. The chairman of a House appropriations subcommittee says it would be a serious blow to democracy if special counsel Robert Mueller's full report on the Russia investigation is not fully made public. Attorney General William Barr is testifying before the subcommittee on Tuesday. Rep. Jose Serrano, D-N.Y., said he has concerns about the process Barr used to draft a four-page letter of Mueller's "principal conclusions" last month. Mueller concluded his investigation in late March and turned over a nearly 400-page report to Barr. Two days later, the attorney general then sent the four-page document to Congress. The Justice Department has said a redacted version of Mueller's report will be made public in mid-April. Serrano said Americans have been "left with many unanswered questions" about Mueller's investigation. __ 12:40 a.m. Attorney General William Barr is facing congressional lawmakers for the first time since receiving the special counsel's report on the Russia investigation. Barr appears Tuesday before a House appropriations subcommittee, where he's expected to face questions about the forthcoming release of special counsel Robert Mueller's report. The Justice Department is preparing to release within days a redacted version of Mueller's report into potential ties between the Trump campaign and Russia. Barr said in a four-page summary of Mueller's main conclusions that Mueller didn't find a criminal conspiracy between the campaign and the Kremlin. The attorney general has also said that Mueller did not reach a conclusion on whether the president obstructed justice. Barr said he and Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein decided the evidence was insufficient to establish obstruction.

Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — The Latest on Attorney General William Barr's testimony to Congress (all times local): 9:50 a.m. The chairman of a House appropriations subcommittee says it would be a serious blow to democracy if special counsel Robert Mueller's full report on the Russia investigation is not fully made public. Attorney General William Barr is testifying before the subcommittee on Tuesday. Rep. Jose Serrano, D-N.Y., said he has concerns about the process Barr used to draft a four-page letter of Mueller's "principal conclusions" last month. Mueller concluded his investigation in late March and turned over a nearly 400-page report to Barr. Two days later, the attorney general then sent the four-page document to Congress. The Justice Department has said a redacted version of Mueller's report will be made public in mid-April. Serrano said Americans have been "left with many unanswered questions" about Mueller's investigation. __ 12:40 a.m. Attorney General William Barr is facing congressional lawmakers for the first time since receiving the special counsel's report on the Russia investigation. Barr appears Tuesday before a House appropriations subcommittee, where he's expected to face questions about the forthcoming release of special counsel Robert Mueller's report. The Justice Department is preparing to release within days a redacted version of Mueller's report into potential ties between the Trump campaign and Russia. Barr said in a four-page summary of Mueller's main conclusions that Mueller didn't find a criminal conspiracy between the campaign and the Kremlin. The attorney general has also said that Mueller did not reach a conclusion on whether the president obstructed justice. Barr said he and Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein decided the evidence was insufficient to establish obstruction.Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — The special counsel's Trump-Russia report will be out on Thursday for all to see. But not all of it. The Democrats' demands for a full, unredacted version of Robert Mueller's report are likely to prompt a political and legal battle that could last for months, if not much longer. The chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, New York Rep. Jerrold Nadler, has said he is prepared to issue subpoenas "very quickly" for the full report on Russia and Donald Trump's presidential campaign if it is released with blacked-out sections. And that would set the legal fight in motion. Attorney General William Barr has said he is redacting four types of information from the report, which the Justice Department says will be released Thursday. Congressional Democrats cite precedent from previous investigations in saying they want to see it all. But some Republicans defending Barr are also citing precedent, saying it is appropriate to keep at least some of the information from Congress and the public. A look at what types of material Barr is redacting, and why Democrats say it should be released: ___ GRAND JURY INFORMATION Barr has staked out his position on releasing secret grand jury information, saying last week that he would not go to court to request its release. He said Democrats are "free to go to court" themselves, and Nadler has said he is ready to do so. Grand jury information, including witness interviews, is normally off limits but can be obtained in court. Some records were eventually released in the Whitewater investigation into former President Bill Clinton and an investigation into President Richard Nixon before he resigned. Both of those cases were under somewhat different circumstances, including that the House Judiciary Committee had initiated impeachment proceedings. Federal court rules state that a court may order disclosure "preliminary to or in connection with a judicial proceeding." But Democrats have said they are not interested in impeachment, for now, and are likely to argue in court that they don't need to be in an official impeachment proceeding to receive the materials. ___ CLASSIFIED INFORMATION Congress frequently receives classified documents and briefings, and Democrats say there is no reason the Mueller report should be any different. Many Republicans agree, including the top Republican on the intelligence committee, California Rep. Devin Nunes, who wrote a rare joint letter in March with House intelligence committee Chairman Adam Schiff asking for "all materials, regardless of form or classification." In the letter, which was obtained by The Associated Press, Schiff and Nunes also asked for a private briefing from Mueller and his team. Democrat Schiff has argued that some of that information should be released to the public, as well, citing Mueller indictments that have already revealed granular detail about the Russian effort to influence the 2016 election. "All of that information at one point was classified, but the decision must have been made the public interest outweighs that. And I think a similar analysis should be undertaken here," Schiff said on CNN this month. ___ ONGOING INVESTIGATIONS Barr said he will redact information related to investigations connected to the Mueller probe that are still underway. Those include cases handed off or referred to federal prosecutors in Washington, New York and Virginia. Democrats have noted that the Justice Department has released such information before, including some related to Mueller's own investigation while it was in progress. Republicans who were in the House majority last year, obtained documents related to the beginnings of the Russia investigation, arguing that officials were biased against then-candidate Trump. Republicans argued at the time that it was necessary to obtain that information to maintain the integrity of the investigation. ___ DEROGATORY INFORMATION The Justice Department regularly redacts information about people who were interviewed or scrutinized in investigations but not charged. Barr has said he will black out information from the report "that would unduly infringe on the personal privacy and reputational interests of peripheral third parties." Asked by Sen. Jeanne Shaheen, D-N.H., at a hearing last week if that meant he would redact information to protect the interests of Trump, Barr said it did not. "No, I'm talking about people in private life, not public officeholders," Barr said. That means that in addition to Trump, members of his family who work at the White House, such as his daughter Ivanka, could potentially be named if they were somehow entangled in Mueller's investigation. But any information regarding his sons, Eric and Donald Trump Jr., who run his businesses, could be more likely to be redacted. The Justice Department did release information about the investigation into Hillary Clinton's email practices more than two years ago, even though Clinton wasn't charged. But that was after then-FBI Director James Comey made the much-questioned decision to publicly discuss that investigation. Barr signaled in his confirmation hearing in January that he would do things differently. "If you're not going to indict someone, then you don't stand up there and unload negative information about the person," Barr said. "That's not the way the Department of Justice does business"

Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — The special counsel's Trump-Russia report will be out on Thursday for all to see. But not all of it. The Democrats' demands for a full, unredacted version of Robert Mueller's report are likely to prompt a political and legal battle that could last for months, if not much longer. The chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, New York Rep. Jerrold Nadler, has said he is prepared to issue subpoenas "very quickly" for the full report on Russia and Donald Trump's presidential campaign if it is released with blacked-out sections. And that would set the legal fight in motion. Attorney General William Barr has said he is redacting four types of information from the report, which the Justice Department says will be released Thursday. Congressional Democrats cite precedent from previous investigations in saying they want to see it all. But some Republicans defending Barr are also citing precedent, saying it is appropriate to keep at least some of the information from Congress and the public. A look at what types of material Barr is redacting, and why Democrats say it should be released: ___ GRAND JURY INFORMATION Barr has staked out his position on releasing secret grand jury information, saying last week that he would not go to court to request its release. He said Democrats are "free to go to court" themselves, and Nadler has said he is ready to do so. Grand jury information, including witness interviews, is normally off limits but can be obtained in court. Some records were eventually released in the Whitewater investigation into former President Bill Clinton and an investigation into President Richard Nixon before he resigned. Both of those cases were under somewhat different circumstances, including that the House Judiciary Committee had initiated impeachment proceedings. Federal court rules state that a court may order disclosure "preliminary to or in connection with a judicial proceeding." But Democrats have said they are not interested in impeachment, for now, and are likely to argue in court that they don't need to be in an official impeachment proceeding to receive the materials. ___ CLASSIFIED INFORMATION Congress frequently receives classified documents and briefings, and Democrats say there is no reason the Mueller report should be any different. Many Republicans agree, including the top Republican on the intelligence committee, California Rep. Devin Nunes, who wrote a rare joint letter in March with House intelligence committee Chairman Adam Schiff asking for "all materials, regardless of form or classification." In the letter, which was obtained by The Associated Press, Schiff and Nunes also asked for a private briefing from Mueller and his team. Democrat Schiff has argued that some of that information should be released to the public, as well, citing Mueller indictments that have already revealed granular detail about the Russian effort to influence the 2016 election. "All of that information at one point was classified, but the decision must have been made the public interest outweighs that. And I think a similar analysis should be undertaken here," Schiff said on CNN this month. ___ ONGOING INVESTIGATIONS Barr said he will redact information related to investigations connected to the Mueller probe that are still underway. Those include cases handed off or referred to federal prosecutors in Washington, New York and Virginia. Democrats have noted that the Justice Department has released such information before, including some related to Mueller's own investigation while it was in progress. Republicans who were in the House majority last year, obtained documents related to the beginnings of the Russia investigation, arguing that officials were biased against then-candidate Trump. Republicans argued at the time that it was necessary to obtain that information to maintain the integrity of the investigation. ___ DEROGATORY INFORMATION The Justice Department regularly redacts information about people who were interviewed or scrutinized in investigations but not charged. Barr has said he will black out information from the report "that would unduly infringe on the personal privacy and reputational interests of peripheral third parties." Asked by Sen. Jeanne Shaheen, D-N.H., at a hearing last week if that meant he would redact information to protect the interests of Trump, Barr said it did not. "No, I'm talking about people in private life, not public officeholders," Barr said. That means that in addition to Trump, members of his family who work at the White House, such as his daughter Ivanka, could potentially be named if they were somehow entangled in Mueller's investigation. But any information regarding his sons, Eric and Donald Trump Jr., who run his businesses, could be more likely to be redacted. The Justice Department did release information about the investigation into Hillary Clinton's email practices more than two years ago, even though Clinton wasn't charged. But that was after then-FBI Director James Comey made the much-questioned decision to publicly discuss that investigation. Barr signaled in his confirmation hearing in January that he would do things differently. "If you're not going to indict someone, then you don't stand up there and unload negative information about the person," Barr said. "That's not the way the Department of Justice does business"Supported by By The Associated Press MOSCOW — The Kremlin argued on Friday that Special Counsel Robert Mueller's 400-page report has not offered any credible evidence of Russian interference in the 2016 U.S. presidential election. The redacted report presented on Thursday said that there was no collusion between the Donald Trump campaign and Russian officials but it did document Russian efforts to meddle in the presidential vote. The publication of the redacted report offered Russian officials another "I-told-you-so" moment to deny any efforts to help Trump win the U.S. presidency. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters on Friday that there is "no evidence substantiated by any facts" that Russia interfered in the election, and said stressed that Moscow rejects the accusations. Peskov pointed out that President Vladimir Putin has repeatedly denied the claims of interference "because there was none." In the upper chamber of the Russian Parliament, the chairman of the information committee, Alexei Pushkov, on Friday mocked the Mueller probe for spending millions of dollars of taxpayers' money without ever proving there was any collusion between Trump and the Kremlin, instead charging Trump's former campaign chief with illegal lobbying on behalf of Ukraine. Most of the Russian media on Thursday and Friday made a point of rejecting the well-documented findings about Russian interference in the 2016 elections via hacking and a social media campaign. State-owned Rossiya television channel said in its report on the Vesti. Economy program late on Thursday that the report is not credible because it has failed to release the content of hacked emails or "specific files." "The Mueller probe was an attempt to threaten the current government and influence U.S. foreign policy without offering any specific evidence," Vesti. Economy said.

Supported by By The Associated Press MOSCOW — The Kremlin argued on Friday that Special Counsel Robert Mueller's 400-page report has not offered any credible evidence of Russian interference in the 2016 U.S. presidential election. The redacted report presented on Thursday said that there was no collusion between the Donald Trump campaign and Russian officials but it did document Russian efforts to meddle in the presidential vote. The publication of the redacted report offered Russian officials another "I-told-you-so" moment to deny any efforts to help Trump win the U.S. presidency. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters on Friday that there is "no evidence substantiated by any facts" that Russia interfered in the election, and said stressed that Moscow rejects the accusations. Peskov pointed out that President Vladimir Putin has repeatedly denied the claims of interference "because there was none." In the upper chamber of the Russian Parliament, the chairman of the information committee, Alexei Pushkov, on Friday mocked the Mueller probe for spending millions of dollars of taxpayers' money without ever proving there was any collusion between Trump and the Kremlin, instead charging Trump's former campaign chief with illegal lobbying on behalf of Ukraine. Most of the Russian media on Thursday and Friday made a point of rejecting the well-documented findings about Russian interference in the 2016 elections via hacking and a social media campaign. State-owned Rossiya television channel said in its report on the Vesti. Economy program late on Thursday that the report is not credible because it has failed to release the content of hacked emails or "specific files." "The Mueller probe was an attempt to threaten the current government and influence U.S. foreign policy without offering any specific evidence," Vesti. Economy said.Supported by By Reuters MOSCOW — Russia's foreign ministry on Friday dismissed the findings of the long-awaited report by U.S. Special Counsel Robert Mueller and said it had failed to present any evidence of Russian meddling in U.S. elections, Russian news agencies reported.  Mueller's report, released on Thursday, details extensive contacts between Donald Trump's 2016 campaign and Russian operatives who, it said, sought to tilt the election in Trump's favor. The report did not find evidence of a criminal conspiracy between Donald Trump's 2016 election campaign and Russia.  (Reporting by Maria Kiselyova; Writing by Tom Balmforth; editing by Kirsten Donovan)

Supported by By Reuters MOSCOW — Russia's foreign ministry on Friday dismissed the findings of the long-awaited report by U.S. Special Counsel Robert Mueller and said it had failed to present any evidence of Russian meddling in U.S. elections, Russian news agencies reported.  Mueller's report, released on Thursday, details extensive contacts between Donald Trump's 2016 campaign and Russian operatives who, it said, sought to tilt the election in Trump's favor. The report did not find evidence of a criminal conspiracy between Donald Trump's 2016 election campaign and Russia.  (Reporting by Maria Kiselyova; Writing by Tom Balmforth; editing by Kirsten Donovan)Supported by A concise report will probably act as a “road map” to investigation for the Democratic House — and to further criminal investigation by other prosecutors.  By Neal K. Katyal Mr. Katyal was an acting solicitor general under President Barack Obama. The special counsel Robert Mueller will apparently soon turn in a report to the new attorney general, William Barr. Sure, there is still a lot of activity, including subpoenas, flying around, but that shouldn’t stop Mr. Mueller.  The report is unlikely to be a dictionary-thick tome, which will disappoint some observers. But such brevity is not necessarily good news for the president. In fact, quite the opposite. For months, the president’s lawyers have tried to discredit Mr. Mueller and this report, but their efforts may have backfired. A concise Mueller report might act as a “road map” to investigation for the Democratic House of Representatives — and it might also lead to further criminal investigation by other prosecutors. A short Mueller report would mark the end of the beginning, not the beginning of the end. The report is unlikely to be lengthy by design: The special counsel regulations, which I had the privilege of drafting in 1999, envision a report that is concise, “a summary” of what he found. And Mr. Mueller’s mandate is limited: to look into criminal activity and counterintelligence matters surrounding Russia and the 2016 election, as well as any obstruction of justice relating to those investigations. The regulations require the attorney general to give Congress a report, too. The regulations speak of the need for public confidence in the administration of justice and even have a provision for public release of the attorney general’s report. In a world where Mr. Mueller was the only investigator, the pressure for a comprehensive report to the public would be overwhelming. This is where the “witch hunt” attacks on Mr. Mueller may have backfired. For 19 months, Mr. Trump and his team have had one target to shoot at, and that target has had limited jurisdiction. But now the investigation resembles the architecture of the internet, with many different nodes, and some of those nodes possess potentially unlimited jurisdiction. Their powers and scope go well beyond Mr. Mueller’s circumscribed mandate; they go to Mr. Trump’s judgment and whether he lied to the American people. They also include law enforcement investigations having nothing to do with Russia, such as whether the president directed the commission of serious campaign finance crimes, as federal prosecutors in the Southern District of New York have already stated in filings. These are all critical matters, each with serious factual predicates already uncovered by prosecutors.  Had Mr. Trump and his coterie done nothing wrong, they would have had little to fear from the special counsel, and a report from Mr. Mueller that cleared him would be the gold seal of approval. But Mr. Trump’s behavior, including his dangling of pardons to witnesses in the investigation, makes total exoneration unlikely, even though it is enormously difficult to prosecute crimes with international dimensions and assertions of privilege. The investigation has been further clouded by the fact that people in Mr. Trump’s inner circle lied repeatedly when it came to Russia (that long list includes Michael Flynn, Paul Manafort and Roger Stone). Sure, it is at least possible to envision the special counsel resolving each strand of the investigation and making such information public in detail. But it is also quite possible — and more likely — to think that the president’s bashing of Mr. Mueller may induce him to issue a more limited, by-the-book report, which will spawn further investigation. And the bashing may have encouraged Mr. Mueller to turn matters over to other investigators who have not been subject to the same sorts of public attack. The House of Representatives has already begun its investigation. To understand the dangers Mr. Trump may face in the aftermath of a limited Mueller report, consider the request Congress made in 1974 to the special prosecutor Leon Jaworski as it opened an impeachment inquiry. Mr. Jaworski is analogous to Mr. Mueller — indeed, his appointment was a model for the special counsel regulations. In March 1974, Peter Rodino, the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, wrote to Mr. Jaworski, requesting all information he had uncovered in his investigation. Mr. Rodino understood that Mr. Jaworski’s mandate was far more limited than the House’s, and his letter stated that “it would be unthinkable if this material were kept from the House of Representatives in the course of the discharge of its most awesome constitutional responsibility.” Of course, there is no open impeachment inquiry now. But that could quickly change if Mr. Mueller writes a report that is anything less than a full clearing of the president: Congress would be under a constitutional obligation to investigate the facts for itself. Congress cannot be satisfied that impeachable offenses were not committed when Mr. Mueller’s investigative mandate did not cover many impeachable offenses, and when his report does not provide detailed information and answers to the few offenses that are within his mandate. This is where Mr. Mueller’s “by the book” behavior may be initially unsatisfying to Mr. Trump’s critics but ultimately more threatening to the president in the long run. The overlapping investigations by different entities, housed in different branches of government, spanning geography and even different governments (such as the New York attorney general’s investigation into the Trump Foundation), make it difficult for anyone, even Attorney General Barr, to end the inquiries.  This news may be disappointing, for various reasons, to the president’s critics and supporters alike. But the ultimate result is a good one. It means the truth is likely to come out — maybe not on the timetable anyone wants, but it will. So whenever Mr. Mueller turns in his report, do not assume that things are over. Like “The king is dead, long live the King,” the investigations here serve a purpose that transcends any one individual or law enforcement entity. This is the architecture of our Constitution, which is designed to ferret out high-level wrongdoing through a variety of channels for the American public to see. Neal K. Katyal (@neal_katyal) was an acting solicitor general under President Barack Obama and is a law professor at Georgetown. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported by A concise report will probably act as a “road map” to investigation for the Democratic House — and to further criminal investigation by other prosecutors.  By Neal K. Katyal Mr. Katyal was an acting solicitor general under President Barack Obama. The special counsel Robert Mueller will apparently soon turn in a report to the new attorney general, William Barr. Sure, there is still a lot of activity, including subpoenas, flying around, but that shouldn’t stop Mr. Mueller.  The report is unlikely to be a dictionary-thick tome, which will disappoint some observers. But such brevity is not necessarily good news for the president. In fact, quite the opposite. For months, the president’s lawyers have tried to discredit Mr. Mueller and this report, but their efforts may have backfired. A concise Mueller report might act as a “road map” to investigation for the Democratic House of Representatives — and it might also lead to further criminal investigation by other prosecutors. A short Mueller report would mark the end of the beginning, not the beginning of the end. The report is unlikely to be lengthy by design: The special counsel regulations, which I had the privilege of drafting in 1999, envision a report that is concise, “a summary” of what he found. And Mr. Mueller’s mandate is limited: to look into criminal activity and counterintelligence matters surrounding Russia and the 2016 election, as well as any obstruction of justice relating to those investigations. The regulations require the attorney general to give Congress a report, too. The regulations speak of the need for public confidence in the administration of justice and even have a provision for public release of the attorney general’s report. In a world where Mr. Mueller was the only investigator, the pressure for a comprehensive report to the public would be overwhelming. This is where the “witch hunt” attacks on Mr. Mueller may have backfired. For 19 months, Mr. Trump and his team have had one target to shoot at, and that target has had limited jurisdiction. But now the investigation resembles the architecture of the internet, with many different nodes, and some of those nodes possess potentially unlimited jurisdiction. Their powers and scope go well beyond Mr. Mueller’s circumscribed mandate; they go to Mr. Trump’s judgment and whether he lied to the American people. They also include law enforcement investigations having nothing to do with Russia, such as whether the president directed the commission of serious campaign finance crimes, as federal prosecutors in the Southern District of New York have already stated in filings. These are all critical matters, each with serious factual predicates already uncovered by prosecutors.  Had Mr. Trump and his coterie done nothing wrong, they would have had little to fear from the special counsel, and a report from Mr. Mueller that cleared him would be the gold seal of approval. But Mr. Trump’s behavior, including his dangling of pardons to witnesses in the investigation, makes total exoneration unlikely, even though it is enormously difficult to prosecute crimes with international dimensions and assertions of privilege. The investigation has been further clouded by the fact that people in Mr. Trump’s inner circle lied repeatedly when it came to Russia (that long list includes Michael Flynn, Paul Manafort and Roger Stone). Sure, it is at least possible to envision the special counsel resolving each strand of the investigation and making such information public in detail. But it is also quite possible — and more likely — to think that the president’s bashing of Mr. Mueller may induce him to issue a more limited, by-the-book report, which will spawn further investigation. And the bashing may have encouraged Mr. Mueller to turn matters over to other investigators who have not been subject to the same sorts of public attack. The House of Representatives has already begun its investigation. To understand the dangers Mr. Trump may face in the aftermath of a limited Mueller report, consider the request Congress made in 1974 to the special prosecutor Leon Jaworski as it opened an impeachment inquiry. Mr. Jaworski is analogous to Mr. Mueller — indeed, his appointment was a model for the special counsel regulations. In March 1974, Peter Rodino, the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, wrote to Mr. Jaworski, requesting all information he had uncovered in his investigation. Mr. Rodino understood that Mr. Jaworski’s mandate was far more limited than the House’s, and his letter stated that “it would be unthinkable if this material were kept from the House of Representatives in the course of the discharge of its most awesome constitutional responsibility.” Of course, there is no open impeachment inquiry now. But that could quickly change if Mr. Mueller writes a report that is anything less than a full clearing of the president: Congress would be under a constitutional obligation to investigate the facts for itself. Congress cannot be satisfied that impeachable offenses were not committed when Mr. Mueller’s investigative mandate did not cover many impeachable offenses, and when his report does not provide detailed information and answers to the few offenses that are within his mandate. This is where Mr. Mueller’s “by the book” behavior may be initially unsatisfying to Mr. Trump’s critics but ultimately more threatening to the president in the long run. The overlapping investigations by different entities, housed in different branches of government, spanning geography and even different governments (such as the New York attorney general’s investigation into the Trump Foundation), make it difficult for anyone, even Attorney General Barr, to end the inquiries.  This news may be disappointing, for various reasons, to the president’s critics and supporters alike. But the ultimate result is a good one. It means the truth is likely to come out — maybe not on the timetable anyone wants, but it will. So whenever Mr. Mueller turns in his report, do not assume that things are over. Like “The king is dead, long live the King,” the investigations here serve a purpose that transcends any one individual or law enforcement entity. This is the architecture of our Constitution, which is designed to ferret out high-level wrongdoing through a variety of channels for the American public to see. Neal K. Katyal (@neal_katyal) was an acting solicitor general under President Barack Obama and is a law professor at Georgetown. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — Special Counsel Robert Mueller may not have found evidence of a criminal conspiracy between Donald Trump's 2016 campaign and Russia, but his report details extensive contacts between the campaign and Russian operatives who sought to influence the election.    Mueller said in his report released on Thursday that he found "numerous links" and that the Trump campaign "expected it would benefit" from Russia's effort to tilt the ballot in Trump's favor. Ultimately, Mueller determined the various contacts either didn't amount to criminal behavior or would be difficult to prove in court, even if people in Trump's orbit sometimes displayed a willingness to accept Russian help, the report showed.  Trump and his allies, who derided the Mueller probe as a political "witch hunt", portrayed the report as vindication. "No collusion. No obstruction. For all the haters and the radical left Democrats, game over," Trump tweeted on Thursday.  "The bottom line is the president is exonerated and the campaign is exonerated of collusion," said Michael Caputo, a former adviser to Trump's campaign. Some legal experts and political strategists were more circumspect, saying the report confirmed the Russian government was attempting to help Trump with the election.  "I think that's a pretty extraordinary finding of historical significance, whether or not there's a crime," said Matthew Jacobs, a former federal prosecutor who is now a San Francisco-based lawyer. Many of the contacts in the report were already known. They included former national security adviser Michael Flynn's conversations in late 2016 with Sergei Kislyak, Russia ambassador at the time, and former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort's interactions with Konstantin Kilimnik, a political consultant who the FBI has determined has ties to Russian intelligence. But the report contained fresh details on the range of official and unofficial dealings Trump campaign advisers and supporters had with Russians before and after the 2016 election.  For example, the report says that Manafort, shortly after he joined the campaign in the spring of 2016, directed his deputy to share internal polling data with Kilimnik with the understanding it would be passed on to Oleg Deripaska, a Russian oligarch known to have close ties to the Kremlin. Lawyers for Manafort did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Kilimnik did not reply to an email seeking comment. A Washington-based attorney for Deripsaka said he could not comment. In a statement to Reuters in January, representatives for Deripaska said he has never had any communication with Kilimnik. The report also says that Manafort told Kilimnik in August 2017 about the campaign's efforts to win the battleground states of Michigan, Pennsylvania, Wisconsin and Minnesota. Trump ended up winning three of those states in the November election. Mueller's investigation did not find a connection between Manafort's sharing of polling data and Russia's meddling in the U.S. election or that he otherwise coordinated with Russia. Frank Montoya, a former senior FBI official, said he was nonetheless bothered by the interactions between Manafort and Kilimnik, especially their talking about battleground states.  "As a longtime counterintelligence investigator it makes the hair stand on the back of my neck," Montoya said. The report detailed a meeting in December 2016 between Trump's son-in-law Jared Kushner and Sergei Gorkov, the head of a Russian state-owned bank under U.S. sanctions. Gorkov gave Kushner a painting and a bag of soil from the town in Belarus where Kushner's family is from, the report says. Mueller's team said it could not resolve a conflict in the accounts of Kushner, who said the meeting was diplomatic in nature, and Gorkov, who said it was business related. Kushner has said neither sanctions nor his business activities were discussed at the meeting. Kushner's lawyer did not respond to a request for comment on Mueller's report. The report also provided new details about a meeting that campaign advisers Donald Trump Jr., the president's oldest son, Kushner and Manafort held with a Russian lawyer at New York's Trump Tower in June 2016. The meeting was set up after the advisers were promised "dirt" on Hillary Clinton, Trump's Democratic challenger for president. Mueller's team considered whether the advisers violated laws barring election contributions from foreigners. But, the report says, they ultimately decided there was not enough evidence to show they "wilfully" broke the law and they might have had problems proving the information offered on Clinton was really valuable. When news of the Trump Tower meeting broke in July 2017, Trump Jr. issued a statement saying the meeting was set up to discuss adoption policy, not politics, before later admitting he had been expecting intelligence on Clinton.  Such interactions have broadly been referred to by Democratic congressional investigators as examples of possible "collusion". But because collusion is not a legal term, Mueller's team examined the Trump Tower meeting and other contacts through the lens of federal conspiracy law. Mueller said his investigation was unable to establish that such contacts with Russians met the bar of criminality which required that the contacts "amounted to an agreement to commit any substantive violation" of U.S. laws, including those governing campaign finance and foreign agent registration. Therefore, Mueller said his office "did not charge any individual associated with the Trump Campaign with conspiracy to commit a federal offense arising from Russia contacts."  (Reporting by Mark Hosenball, Nathan Layne, Sarah N. Lynch, Karen Freifeld and Andy Sullivan in Washington; Editing by Ross Colvin and Paul Thomasch)

Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — Special Counsel Robert Mueller may not have found evidence of a criminal conspiracy between Donald Trump's 2016 campaign and Russia, but his report details extensive contacts between the campaign and Russian operatives who sought to influence the election.    Mueller said in his report released on Thursday that he found "numerous links" and that the Trump campaign "expected it would benefit" from Russia's effort to tilt the ballot in Trump's favor. Ultimately, Mueller determined the various contacts either didn't amount to criminal behavior or would be difficult to prove in court, even if people in Trump's orbit sometimes displayed a willingness to accept Russian help, the report showed.  Trump and his allies, who derided the Mueller probe as a political "witch hunt", portrayed the report as vindication. "No collusion. No obstruction. For all the haters and the radical left Democrats, game over," Trump tweeted on Thursday.  "The bottom line is the president is exonerated and the campaign is exonerated of collusion," said Michael Caputo, a former adviser to Trump's campaign. Some legal experts and political strategists were more circumspect, saying the report confirmed the Russian government was attempting to help Trump with the election.  "I think that's a pretty extraordinary finding of historical significance, whether or not there's a crime," said Matthew Jacobs, a former federal prosecutor who is now a San Francisco-based lawyer. Many of the contacts in the report were already known. They included former national security adviser Michael Flynn's conversations in late 2016 with Sergei Kislyak, Russia ambassador at the time, and former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort's interactions with Konstantin Kilimnik, a political consultant who the FBI has determined has ties to Russian intelligence. But the report contained fresh details on the range of official and unofficial dealings Trump campaign advisers and supporters had with Russians before and after the 2016 election.  For example, the report says that Manafort, shortly after he joined the campaign in the spring of 2016, directed his deputy to share internal polling data with Kilimnik with the understanding it would be passed on to Oleg Deripaska, a Russian oligarch known to have close ties to the Kremlin. Lawyers for Manafort did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Kilimnik did not reply to an email seeking comment. A Washington-based attorney for Deripsaka said he could not comment. In a statement to Reuters in January, representatives for Deripaska said he has never had any communication with Kilimnik. The report also says that Manafort told Kilimnik in August 2017 about the campaign's efforts to win the battleground states of Michigan, Pennsylvania, Wisconsin and Minnesota. Trump ended up winning three of those states in the November election. Mueller's investigation did not find a connection between Manafort's sharing of polling data and Russia's meddling in the U.S. election or that he otherwise coordinated with Russia. Frank Montoya, a former senior FBI official, said he was nonetheless bothered by the interactions between Manafort and Kilimnik, especially their talking about battleground states.  "As a longtime counterintelligence investigator it makes the hair stand on the back of my neck," Montoya said. The report detailed a meeting in December 2016 between Trump's son-in-law Jared Kushner and Sergei Gorkov, the head of a Russian state-owned bank under U.S. sanctions. Gorkov gave Kushner a painting and a bag of soil from the town in Belarus where Kushner's family is from, the report says. Mueller's team said it could not resolve a conflict in the accounts of Kushner, who said the meeting was diplomatic in nature, and Gorkov, who said it was business related. Kushner has said neither sanctions nor his business activities were discussed at the meeting. Kushner's lawyer did not respond to a request for comment on Mueller's report. The report also provided new details about a meeting that campaign advisers Donald Trump Jr., the president's oldest son, Kushner and Manafort held with a Russian lawyer at New York's Trump Tower in June 2016. The meeting was set up after the advisers were promised "dirt" on Hillary Clinton, Trump's Democratic challenger for president. Mueller's team considered whether the advisers violated laws barring election contributions from foreigners. But, the report says, they ultimately decided there was not enough evidence to show they "wilfully" broke the law and they might have had problems proving the information offered on Clinton was really valuable. When news of the Trump Tower meeting broke in July 2017, Trump Jr. issued a statement saying the meeting was set up to discuss adoption policy, not politics, before later admitting he had been expecting intelligence on Clinton.  Such interactions have broadly been referred to by Democratic congressional investigators as examples of possible "collusion". But because collusion is not a legal term, Mueller's team examined the Trump Tower meeting and other contacts through the lens of federal conspiracy law. Mueller said his investigation was unable to establish that such contacts with Russians met the bar of criminality which required that the contacts "amounted to an agreement to commit any substantive violation" of U.S. laws, including those governing campaign finance and foreign agent registration. Therefore, Mueller said his office "did not charge any individual associated with the Trump Campaign with conspiracy to commit a federal offense arising from Russia contacts."  (Reporting by Mark Hosenball, Nathan Layne, Sarah N. Lynch, Karen Freifeld and Andy Sullivan in Washington; Editing by Ross Colvin and Paul Thomasch)Supported by A demagogic president can walk right up to the edge of committing a crime, so long as he operates brazenly in public view.  By Bob Bauer Mr. Bauer is a professor of practice and distinguished scholar in residence at New York University School of Law. Attorney General Bill Barr’s summary of the report from Robert Mueller is only a first step in the accounting of this president’s behavior, but it is not too early to reach this conclusion: It marked a good day for some norms — but a much, much worse one for others. A special counsel’s investigation of a president is first and foremost a mechanism for addressing strictly legal questions. But it is necessarily always more, and the investigative process and the ultimate legal and factual findings reflect, help shape and often reinforce the state of key norms — fundamental expectations of presidential conduct.  Legal process norms have mostly emerged in sound condition. The Mueller investigation was completed without, as Mr. Barr affirmed, any action rejected by the attorney general or Rod Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general. Soon after Mr. Barr had received the Mueller report, he released a summary of the principal conclusions. So far, the attorney general is proceeding in compliance with the special counsel rules for congressional notification and a more general, “public interest” release. And he has pledged additional transparency. The attorney general’s involvement in the final decision on potential obstruction of justice is more questionable. After all, Mr. Barr’s views were well known to the White House on this topic: He did not bring an open mind to it. Still, the Senate confirmed him, and he was clear that he would not recuse himself on these grounds. And in reaching a prosecutorial judgment on obstruction, Mr. Barr consulted Mr. Rosenstein, who concurred in the decision to decline prosecution; he also claims to have engaged the Office of Legal Counsel. These process norms fared well. But the Mueller report marked a low point for more substantive norms of presidential conduct. It shows that a demagogic president like Donald Trump can devalue or even depart radically from key norms, just short of committing chargeable crimes, so long as he operates mostly and brazenly in full public view. For a demagogue, shamelessness is its own reward. Such a president can have openly, actively encouraged and welcomed foreign government support for his political campaigns, and his campaign can reinforce the point in direct communications with that government’s representatives. The Barr summary reveals that the special counsel uncovered not just a couple but “multiple offers” of support from the Russians, and yet neither Mr. Trump nor his campaign reported them to counterintelligence or law enforcement authorities. Mr. Trump went further still — while in office, he dictated a statement for his son and campaign aide, Donald Trump Jr., that falsely represented the purposes of the June 2016 Trump Tower meeting between senior campaign representatives and a Kremlin-connected representative (and others) offering assistance in the 2016 election. Mr. Mueller proceeded cautiously on this and other evidence. Federal campaign finance laws prohibit soliciting and receiving support from foreign nationals or “substantially assisting” them in their efforts to influence an American election, but Mr. Mueller concluded that the rules as applied to the facts did not support a criminal prosecution. This was a conservative judgment — but it underscores again the urgent work norms must do if the law is inadequate to the task.  Similarly, the letter notes that much of the president’s obstructive behavior during the investigation was in “public view.” This was apparently a significant consideration in the decision by Mr. Barr and Mr. Rosenstein not to prosecute (along with the determination that there was no underlying “collusion” legal offense). Here, once again, the president who is a demagogue — who is fully prepared to flout well-established, vitally important expectations about how American presidents faithfully execute the laws — can safely bring self-interested, self-protective pressure on the Department of Justice and undermine its public standing and authority. In this case, the president’s all-out assault on the department, the special counsel and the Federal Bureau of Investigation did not prevent Mr. Mueller from completing his investigation and reporting his conclusions (or his reasons, in the case of obstruction, for not reaching a conclusion and leaving it to the attorney general to decide). Who is to say that the next demagogue to occupy the Oval Office won’t follow this same path but take it one or more steps further? Mr. Trump has shown the way. For the classic demagogue, so feared by the founders, the only question is what works to serve his own interests. He will do, and he will say, what it takes, weighing only the personal costs against the personal benefits. In the polarized politics of the day, Mr. Trump is bolstered in his demagogic conduct by a passionately loyal “base” impressed by his norm-busting.  So, even before other facts emerge, the urgent question is how to revive and even strengthen the norms. We have reason to salute Mr. Mueller: As a prosecutor, he did his job conscientiously, and the process generally worked as designed. But we now have cause to worry about the future of the norms that Mr. Trump could trash on a calculation that he could get away with it. It was a good moment for the demagogue. Bob Bauer is a professor of practice and distinguished scholar in residence at New York University School of Law and served as a White House counsel under President Barack Obama. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported by A demagogic president can walk right up to the edge of committing a crime, so long as he operates brazenly in public view.  By Bob Bauer Mr. Bauer is a professor of practice and distinguished scholar in residence at New York University School of Law. Attorney General Bill Barr’s summary of the report from Robert Mueller is only a first step in the accounting of this president’s behavior, but it is not too early to reach this conclusion: It marked a good day for some norms — but a much, much worse one for others. A special counsel’s investigation of a president is first and foremost a mechanism for addressing strictly legal questions. But it is necessarily always more, and the investigative process and the ultimate legal and factual findings reflect, help shape and often reinforce the state of key norms — fundamental expectations of presidential conduct.  Legal process norms have mostly emerged in sound condition. The Mueller investigation was completed without, as Mr. Barr affirmed, any action rejected by the attorney general or Rod Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general. Soon after Mr. Barr had received the Mueller report, he released a summary of the principal conclusions. So far, the attorney general is proceeding in compliance with the special counsel rules for congressional notification and a more general, “public interest” release. And he has pledged additional transparency. The attorney general’s involvement in the final decision on potential obstruction of justice is more questionable. After all, Mr. Barr’s views were well known to the White House on this topic: He did not bring an open mind to it. Still, the Senate confirmed him, and he was clear that he would not recuse himself on these grounds. And in reaching a prosecutorial judgment on obstruction, Mr. Barr consulted Mr. Rosenstein, who concurred in the decision to decline prosecution; he also claims to have engaged the Office of Legal Counsel. These process norms fared well. But the Mueller report marked a low point for more substantive norms of presidential conduct. It shows that a demagogic president like Donald Trump can devalue or even depart radically from key norms, just short of committing chargeable crimes, so long as he operates mostly and brazenly in full public view. For a demagogue, shamelessness is its own reward. Such a president can have openly, actively encouraged and welcomed foreign government support for his political campaigns, and his campaign can reinforce the point in direct communications with that government’s representatives. The Barr summary reveals that the special counsel uncovered not just a couple but “multiple offers” of support from the Russians, and yet neither Mr. Trump nor his campaign reported them to counterintelligence or law enforcement authorities. Mr. Trump went further still — while in office, he dictated a statement for his son and campaign aide, Donald Trump Jr., that falsely represented the purposes of the June 2016 Trump Tower meeting between senior campaign representatives and a Kremlin-connected representative (and others) offering assistance in the 2016 election. Mr. Mueller proceeded cautiously on this and other evidence. Federal campaign finance laws prohibit soliciting and receiving support from foreign nationals or “substantially assisting” them in their efforts to influence an American election, but Mr. Mueller concluded that the rules as applied to the facts did not support a criminal prosecution. This was a conservative judgment — but it underscores again the urgent work norms must do if the law is inadequate to the task.  Similarly, the letter notes that much of the president’s obstructive behavior during the investigation was in “public view.” This was apparently a significant consideration in the decision by Mr. Barr and Mr. Rosenstein not to prosecute (along with the determination that there was no underlying “collusion” legal offense). Here, once again, the president who is a demagogue — who is fully prepared to flout well-established, vitally important expectations about how American presidents faithfully execute the laws — can safely bring self-interested, self-protective pressure on the Department of Justice and undermine its public standing and authority. In this case, the president’s all-out assault on the department, the special counsel and the Federal Bureau of Investigation did not prevent Mr. Mueller from completing his investigation and reporting his conclusions (or his reasons, in the case of obstruction, for not reaching a conclusion and leaving it to the attorney general to decide). Who is to say that the next demagogue to occupy the Oval Office won’t follow this same path but take it one or more steps further? Mr. Trump has shown the way. For the classic demagogue, so feared by the founders, the only question is what works to serve his own interests. He will do, and he will say, what it takes, weighing only the personal costs against the personal benefits. In the polarized politics of the day, Mr. Trump is bolstered in his demagogic conduct by a passionately loyal “base” impressed by his norm-busting.  So, even before other facts emerge, the urgent question is how to revive and even strengthen the norms. We have reason to salute Mr. Mueller: As a prosecutor, he did his job conscientiously, and the process generally worked as designed. But we now have cause to worry about the future of the norms that Mr. Trump could trash on a calculation that he could get away with it. It was a good moment for the demagogue. Bob Bauer is a professor of practice and distinguished scholar in residence at New York University School of Law and served as a White House counsel under President Barack Obama. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — U.S. President Donald Trump believed the appointment of a special counsel to take over the federal probe of Russian interference into the 2016 election would spell the end of his presidency, according to the report by Special Counsel Robert Mueller.  When then-Attorney General Jeff Sessions informed Trump of Mueller's appointment in May 2017, the report said, Trump slumped back in his chair and said: "Oh my God. This is terrible. This is the end of my presidency. I'm fucked." Trump then asked Sessions, whom he had berated for months for recusing himself from the Russia probe: "How could you let this happen, Jeff?" and told Sessions he had let him down. Details of Mueller's investigation were released on Thursday, showing Trump tried to impede the probe, raising questions of whether he committed the crime of obstruction of justice. Sessions, who resigned in November, recalled that Trump said to him, "you were supposed to protect me," the report said.  The Republican president had bristled at the investigation since taking office in January 2017, belittling Sessions and calling the probe a witch hunt and a hoax. "Everyone tells me if you get one of these independent counsels it ruins your presidency," Trump said, according to the report. "It takes years and years and I won't be able to do anything. This is the worst thing that ever happened to me." A month after the appointment, in June 2017, Trump tried to get rid of Mueller, according to the report. He called White House counsel Don McGahn at home twice and told him to call Acting Attorney General Rod Rosenstein and say Mueller should be removed because of conflicts of interest, the report said. "You gotta do this. You gotta call Rod," McGahn recalled Trump as saying.  "McGahn did not carry out the direction, however, deciding that he would resign rather than trigger what he regarded as a potential Saturday Night Massacre," Mueller's report said, referring to the Watergate-era firing of key law enforcement officials by President Richard Nixon. Two days later, the report said, "the President made another attempt to affect the course of the Russia investigation." He asked former campaign manager Corey Lewandowski to tell Sessions he should announce publicly that the investigation was "very unfair" to Trump, that Trump had done nothing wrong and that Mueller may "move forward with investigating election meddling for future elections."  (Reporting by Ginger Gibson, Doina Chiacu; editing by Bill Rigby)

Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — U.S. President Donald Trump believed the appointment of a special counsel to take over the federal probe of Russian interference into the 2016 election would spell the end of his presidency, according to the report by Special Counsel Robert Mueller.  When then-Attorney General Jeff Sessions informed Trump of Mueller's appointment in May 2017, the report said, Trump slumped back in his chair and said: "Oh my God. This is terrible. This is the end of my presidency. I'm fucked." Trump then asked Sessions, whom he had berated for months for recusing himself from the Russia probe: "How could you let this happen, Jeff?" and told Sessions he had let him down. Details of Mueller's investigation were released on Thursday, showing Trump tried to impede the probe, raising questions of whether he committed the crime of obstruction of justice. Sessions, who resigned in November, recalled that Trump said to him, "you were supposed to protect me," the report said.  The Republican president had bristled at the investigation since taking office in January 2017, belittling Sessions and calling the probe a witch hunt and a hoax. "Everyone tells me if you get one of these independent counsels it ruins your presidency," Trump said, according to the report. "It takes years and years and I won't be able to do anything. This is the worst thing that ever happened to me." A month after the appointment, in June 2017, Trump tried to get rid of Mueller, according to the report. He called White House counsel Don McGahn at home twice and told him to call Acting Attorney General Rod Rosenstein and say Mueller should be removed because of conflicts of interest, the report said. "You gotta do this. You gotta call Rod," McGahn recalled Trump as saying.  "McGahn did not carry out the direction, however, deciding that he would resign rather than trigger what he regarded as a potential Saturday Night Massacre," Mueller's report said, referring to the Watergate-era firing of key law enforcement officials by President Richard Nixon. Two days later, the report said, "the President made another attempt to affect the course of the Russia investigation." He asked former campaign manager Corey Lewandowski to tell Sessions he should announce publicly that the investigation was "very unfair" to Trump, that Trump had done nothing wrong and that Mueller may "move forward with investigating election meddling for future elections."  (Reporting by Ginger Gibson, Doina Chiacu; editing by Bill Rigby)Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — The chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, Rep. Jerrold Nadler, has issued a subpoena for special counsel Robert Mueller's full report as Democrats intensified their investigation of President Donald Trump, but leaders stopped short of liberal demands for impeachment proceedings. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi has insisted on a methodical, step-by-step approach to the House's oversight of the Trump administration, and she refuses to consider impeachment without public support, including from Republicans, which seems unlikely. But in light of Mueller's findings , Democratic leaders are under mounting pressure from the party's rising stars, deep-pocketed donors and even a presidential contender to seize the moment as a jumping-off point for trying to remove Trump from office. Speaking Friday in Belfast as Pelosi wrapped up a congressional visit to Ireland, she declined to signal action beyond Congress' role as a check and balance for the White House. "Let me assure you that whatever the issue and challenge we face, the Congress of the United States will honor its oath of office to protect and defend the Constitution of the United States to protect our democracy," she told reporters. "We believe that the first article — Article 1, the legislative branch — has the responsibility of oversight of our democracy, and we will exercise that." That approach isn't enough for some liberals who see in Trump's actions not just a president unfit for office but evidence of obstruction serious enough that Mueller said he could not declare Trump exonerated. Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, D-N.Y., is now signed on to an impeachment resolution from fellow Democratic Rep. Rashida Tlaib of Michigan, bringing new energy to the effort. Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass., a presidential candidate, said Friday the House "should initiate impeachment proceedings against the president." And billionaire Tom Steyer, a leading advocate of impeachment, has grown impatient with the House's pace of investigations and wants televised hearings to focus Americans' attention on Trump. "Let's get the show on the road," Steyer said in an interview Friday. "The Mueller report very clearly outlined obstruction by the president and basically said, I can't do anything about it, it's up to Congress to hold the president accountable." Democrats, though, may see greater power in pursuing an investigative effort, leaving impeachment on the shelf as a break-glass option. The Judiciary chairman, Nadler, D-N.Y., says he expects the Justice Department to comply with the committee's subpoena for the full report by May 1. That's the same day Attorney General William Barr is to testify before a Senate committee and one day before Barr is to appear before Nadler's panel. Nadler also has summoned Mueller to testify by May 23. "It now falls to Congress to determine the full scope of that alleged misconduct and to decide what steps we must take going forward," Nadler said. A Justice Department spokeswoman, Kerri Kupac, called Nadler's move "premature and unnecessary." Barr sent Congress a redacted version of the Mueller report, blacking out several types of material, including classified information, material pertaining to ongoing investigations and grand jury evidence. Nadler said he was open to working with the department on accommodations, but he also said the committee "needs and is entitled to the full version of the report and the underlying evidence consistent with past practice." But the committee's top Republican, Rep. Doug Collins of Georgia, said the subpoena was "wildly overbroad" and that Trump already had declined to assert executive privilege over the Mueller report in a move of "unprecedented openness." "This is politically convenient," Collins said, allowing the chairman "to grandstand and rail against the attorney general for not cooperating on an impossible timeline." Mueller's report provides fresh evidence of Trump's interference in the Russia investigation and challenges lawmakers to respond. For Congress, though, organizing an immediate response been complicated by the spring recess that left leadership in both parties away from Washington and rank-and-file lawmakers. GOP Leader Kevin McCarthy has been on a delegation trip to South America, and GOP Sen. Lindsey Graham, the top Republican on the Senate Judiciary Committee, has been in Africa. One Republican, Sen. Mitt Romney of Utah was one of the few who spoke out Friday, saying he was "sickened" by the report's findings of dishonesty at the highest levels of the administration, "including the president," and appalled that some Americans were working with Russians during the 2016 election. Pelosi will convene House Democrats for a conference call Monday, after the holiday weekend when many lawmakers are celebrating Easter and Passover. With Barr, Democrats expect a long battle ahead. The attorney general has come under intense scrutiny over his handling of the Mueller report and subsequent comments that have left him exposed to criticism he is acting in Trump's interest. Late Friday Democrats rejected an offer from Barr for a limited number of congressional leaders to view some of the redacted materials in a confidential setting. They said it was inadequate. It's unlikely that the full Mueller report or the special counsel's public testimony will untangle the dilemma that Democrats face. Mueller laid out multiple episodes in which Trump directed others to influence or curtail the Russia investigation after the special counsel's appointment in May 2017, and Trump made clear that he viewed the probe as a potential mortal blow — "the end of my presidency." Democratic leaders are walking a delicate line on what to do with Mueller's findings. The No. 2 Democrat, Rep. Steny Hoyer of Maryland, drew criticism for refusing to consider impeachment, and quickly revised his comments to say "all options ought to remain on the table." And Pelosi, in an interview last week, before the report's release, reiterated her "high bar" for impeachment. But she also didn't close the door on the option. "The fact is the president has engaged in activities that are unethical, un-American. ... In every way he is unfit to be president of the United States. Does that make it — is that an impeachable offense? Well it depends on what we see in the report." ___ Associated Press reporters Mary Clare Jalonick and Padmananda Rama in Washington, Jennifer Peltz in New York and Dylan Lovan in LaGrange, Kentucky, contributed to this report. ___ For complete coverage of the Mueller report, go to https://www.apnews.com/TrumpInvestigations

Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — The chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, Rep. Jerrold Nadler, has issued a subpoena for special counsel Robert Mueller's full report as Democrats intensified their investigation of President Donald Trump, but leaders stopped short of liberal demands for impeachment proceedings. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi has insisted on a methodical, step-by-step approach to the House's oversight of the Trump administration, and she refuses to consider impeachment without public support, including from Republicans, which seems unlikely. But in light of Mueller's findings , Democratic leaders are under mounting pressure from the party's rising stars, deep-pocketed donors and even a presidential contender to seize the moment as a jumping-off point for trying to remove Trump from office. Speaking Friday in Belfast as Pelosi wrapped up a congressional visit to Ireland, she declined to signal action beyond Congress' role as a check and balance for the White House. "Let me assure you that whatever the issue and challenge we face, the Congress of the United States will honor its oath of office to protect and defend the Constitution of the United States to protect our democracy," she told reporters. "We believe that the first article — Article 1, the legislative branch — has the responsibility of oversight of our democracy, and we will exercise that." That approach isn't enough for some liberals who see in Trump's actions not just a president unfit for office but evidence of obstruction serious enough that Mueller said he could not declare Trump exonerated. Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, D-N.Y., is now signed on to an impeachment resolution from fellow Democratic Rep. Rashida Tlaib of Michigan, bringing new energy to the effort. Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass., a presidential candidate, said Friday the House "should initiate impeachment proceedings against the president." And billionaire Tom Steyer, a leading advocate of impeachment, has grown impatient with the House's pace of investigations and wants televised hearings to focus Americans' attention on Trump. "Let's get the show on the road," Steyer said in an interview Friday. "The Mueller report very clearly outlined obstruction by the president and basically said, I can't do anything about it, it's up to Congress to hold the president accountable." Democrats, though, may see greater power in pursuing an investigative effort, leaving impeachment on the shelf as a break-glass option. The Judiciary chairman, Nadler, D-N.Y., says he expects the Justice Department to comply with the committee's subpoena for the full report by May 1. That's the same day Attorney General William Barr is to testify before a Senate committee and one day before Barr is to appear before Nadler's panel. Nadler also has summoned Mueller to testify by May 23. "It now falls to Congress to determine the full scope of that alleged misconduct and to decide what steps we must take going forward," Nadler said. A Justice Department spokeswoman, Kerri Kupac, called Nadler's move "premature and unnecessary." Barr sent Congress a redacted version of the Mueller report, blacking out several types of material, including classified information, material pertaining to ongoing investigations and grand jury evidence. Nadler said he was open to working with the department on accommodations, but he also said the committee "needs and is entitled to the full version of the report and the underlying evidence consistent with past practice." But the committee's top Republican, Rep. Doug Collins of Georgia, said the subpoena was "wildly overbroad" and that Trump already had declined to assert executive privilege over the Mueller report in a move of "unprecedented openness." "This is politically convenient," Collins said, allowing the chairman "to grandstand and rail against the attorney general for not cooperating on an impossible timeline." Mueller's report provides fresh evidence of Trump's interference in the Russia investigation and challenges lawmakers to respond. For Congress, though, organizing an immediate response been complicated by the spring recess that left leadership in both parties away from Washington and rank-and-file lawmakers. GOP Leader Kevin McCarthy has been on a delegation trip to South America, and GOP Sen. Lindsey Graham, the top Republican on the Senate Judiciary Committee, has been in Africa. One Republican, Sen. Mitt Romney of Utah was one of the few who spoke out Friday, saying he was "sickened" by the report's findings of dishonesty at the highest levels of the administration, "including the president," and appalled that some Americans were working with Russians during the 2016 election. Pelosi will convene House Democrats for a conference call Monday, after the holiday weekend when many lawmakers are celebrating Easter and Passover. With Barr, Democrats expect a long battle ahead. The attorney general has come under intense scrutiny over his handling of the Mueller report and subsequent comments that have left him exposed to criticism he is acting in Trump's interest. Late Friday Democrats rejected an offer from Barr for a limited number of congressional leaders to view some of the redacted materials in a confidential setting. They said it was inadequate. It's unlikely that the full Mueller report or the special counsel's public testimony will untangle the dilemma that Democrats face. Mueller laid out multiple episodes in which Trump directed others to influence or curtail the Russia investigation after the special counsel's appointment in May 2017, and Trump made clear that he viewed the probe as a potential mortal blow — "the end of my presidency." Democratic leaders are walking a delicate line on what to do with Mueller's findings. The No. 2 Democrat, Rep. Steny Hoyer of Maryland, drew criticism for refusing to consider impeachment, and quickly revised his comments to say "all options ought to remain on the table." And Pelosi, in an interview last week, before the report's release, reiterated her "high bar" for impeachment. But she also didn't close the door on the option. "The fact is the president has engaged in activities that are unethical, un-American. ... In every way he is unfit to be president of the United States. Does that make it — is that an impeachable offense? Well it depends on what we see in the report." ___ Associated Press reporters Mary Clare Jalonick and Padmananda Rama in Washington, Jennifer Peltz in New York and Dylan Lovan in LaGrange, Kentucky, contributed to this report. ___ For complete coverage of the Mueller report, go to https://www.apnews.com/TrumpInvestigationsSupported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — The special counsel's Trump-Russia report will be out on Thursday for all to see. But not all of it. The Democrats' demands for a full, unredacted version of Robert Mueller's report are likely to prompt a political and legal battle that could last for months, if not much longer. The chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, New York Rep. Jerrold Nadler, has said he is prepared to issue subpoenas "very quickly" for the full report on Russia and Donald Trump's presidential campaign if it is released with blacked-out sections. And that would set the legal fight in motion. Attorney General William Barr has said he is redacting four types of information from the report, which the Justice Department says will be released Thursday. Congressional Democrats cite precedent from previous investigations in saying they want to see it all. But some Republicans defending Barr are also citing precedent, saying it is appropriate to keep at least some of the information from Congress and the public. A look at what types of material Barr is redacting, and why Democrats say it should be released: ___ GRAND JURY INFORMATION Barr has staked out his position on releasing secret grand jury information, saying last week that he would not go to court to request its release. He said Democrats are "free to go to court" themselves, and Nadler has said he is ready to do so. Grand jury information, including witness interviews, is normally off limits but can be obtained in court. Some records were eventually released in the Whitewater investigation into former President Bill Clinton and an investigation into President Richard Nixon before he resigned. Both of those cases were under somewhat different circumstances, including that the House Judiciary Committee had initiated impeachment proceedings. Federal court rules state that a court may order disclosure "preliminary to or in connection with a judicial proceeding." But Democrats have said they are not interested in impeachment, for now, and are likely to argue in court that they don't need to be in an official impeachment proceeding to receive the materials. ___ CLASSIFIED INFORMATION Congress frequently receives classified documents and briefings, and Democrats say there is no reason the Mueller report should be any different. Many Republicans agree, including the top Republican on the intelligence committee, California Rep. Devin Nunes, who wrote a rare joint letter in March with House intelligence committee Chairman Adam Schiff asking for "all materials, regardless of form or classification." In the letter, which was obtained by The Associated Press, Schiff and Nunes also asked for a private briefing from Mueller and his team. Democrat Schiff has argued that some of that information should be released to the public, as well, citing Mueller indictments that have already revealed granular detail about the Russian effort to influence the 2016 election. "All of that information at one point was classified, but the decision must have been made the public interest outweighs that. And I think a similar analysis should be undertaken here," Schiff said on CNN this month. ___ ONGOING INVESTIGATIONS Barr said he will redact information related to investigations connected to the Mueller probe that are still underway. Those include cases handed off or referred to federal prosecutors in Washington, New York and Virginia. Democrats have noted that the Justice Department has released such information before, including some related to Mueller's own investigation while it was in progress. Republicans who were in the House majority last year obtained documents related to the beginnings of the Russia investigation, arguing that officials were biased against then-candidate Trump. Republicans argued at the time that it was necessary to obtain that information to maintain the integrity of the investigation. ___ DEROGATORY INFORMATION The Justice Department regularly redacts information about people who were interviewed or scrutinized in investigations but not charged. Barr has said he will black out information from the report "that would unduly infringe on the personal privacy and reputational interests of peripheral third parties." Asked by Sen. Jeanne Shaheen, D-N.H., at a hearing last week if that meant he would redact information to protect the interests of Trump, Barr said it did not. "No, I'm talking about people in private life, not public officeholders," Barr said. That means that in addition to Trump, members of his family who work at the White House, such as his daughter Ivanka, could potentially be named if they were somehow entangled in Mueller's investigation. But any information regarding his sons Eric and Donald Trump Jr., who run his businesses, could be more likely to be redacted. The Justice Department did release information about the investigation into Hillary Clinton's email practices more than two years ago, even though Clinton wasn't charged. But that was after then-FBI Director James Comey made the much-questioned decision to publicly discuss that investigation. Barr signaled in his confirmation hearing in January that he would do things differently. "If you're not going to indict someone, then you don't stand up there and unload negative information about the person," Barr said. "That's not the way the Department of Justice does business."

Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — The special counsel's Trump-Russia report will be out on Thursday for all to see. But not all of it. The Democrats' demands for a full, unredacted version of Robert Mueller's report are likely to prompt a political and legal battle that could last for months, if not much longer. The chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, New York Rep. Jerrold Nadler, has said he is prepared to issue subpoenas "very quickly" for the full report on Russia and Donald Trump's presidential campaign if it is released with blacked-out sections. And that would set the legal fight in motion. Attorney General William Barr has said he is redacting four types of information from the report, which the Justice Department says will be released Thursday. Congressional Democrats cite precedent from previous investigations in saying they want to see it all. But some Republicans defending Barr are also citing precedent, saying it is appropriate to keep at least some of the information from Congress and the public. A look at what types of material Barr is redacting, and why Democrats say it should be released: ___ GRAND JURY INFORMATION Barr has staked out his position on releasing secret grand jury information, saying last week that he would not go to court to request its release. He said Democrats are "free to go to court" themselves, and Nadler has said he is ready to do so. Grand jury information, including witness interviews, is normally off limits but can be obtained in court. Some records were eventually released in the Whitewater investigation into former President Bill Clinton and an investigation into President Richard Nixon before he resigned. Both of those cases were under somewhat different circumstances, including that the House Judiciary Committee had initiated impeachment proceedings. Federal court rules state that a court may order disclosure "preliminary to or in connection with a judicial proceeding." But Democrats have said they are not interested in impeachment, for now, and are likely to argue in court that they don't need to be in an official impeachment proceeding to receive the materials. ___ CLASSIFIED INFORMATION Congress frequently receives classified documents and briefings, and Democrats say there is no reason the Mueller report should be any different. Many Republicans agree, including the top Republican on the intelligence committee, California Rep. Devin Nunes, who wrote a rare joint letter in March with House intelligence committee Chairman Adam Schiff asking for "all materials, regardless of form or classification." In the letter, which was obtained by The Associated Press, Schiff and Nunes also asked for a private briefing from Mueller and his team. Democrat Schiff has argued that some of that information should be released to the public, as well, citing Mueller indictments that have already revealed granular detail about the Russian effort to influence the 2016 election. "All of that information at one point was classified, but the decision must have been made the public interest outweighs that. And I think a similar analysis should be undertaken here," Schiff said on CNN this month. ___ ONGOING INVESTIGATIONS Barr said he will redact information related to investigations connected to the Mueller probe that are still underway. Those include cases handed off or referred to federal prosecutors in Washington, New York and Virginia. Democrats have noted that the Justice Department has released such information before, including some related to Mueller's own investigation while it was in progress. Republicans who were in the House majority last year obtained documents related to the beginnings of the Russia investigation, arguing that officials were biased against then-candidate Trump. Republicans argued at the time that it was necessary to obtain that information to maintain the integrity of the investigation. ___ DEROGATORY INFORMATION The Justice Department regularly redacts information about people who were interviewed or scrutinized in investigations but not charged. Barr has said he will black out information from the report "that would unduly infringe on the personal privacy and reputational interests of peripheral third parties." Asked by Sen. Jeanne Shaheen, D-N.H., at a hearing last week if that meant he would redact information to protect the interests of Trump, Barr said it did not. "No, I'm talking about people in private life, not public officeholders," Barr said. That means that in addition to Trump, members of his family who work at the White House, such as his daughter Ivanka, could potentially be named if they were somehow entangled in Mueller's investigation. But any information regarding his sons Eric and Donald Trump Jr., who run his businesses, could be more likely to be redacted. The Justice Department did release information about the investigation into Hillary Clinton's email practices more than two years ago, even though Clinton wasn't charged. But that was after then-FBI Director James Comey made the much-questioned decision to publicly discuss that investigation. Barr signaled in his confirmation hearing in January that he would do things differently. "If you're not going to indict someone, then you don't stand up there and unload negative information about the person," Barr said. "That's not the way the Department of Justice does business."Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — The U.S. Attorney General decided that President Donald Trump did not obstruct a probe into whether his campaign colluded with Russia, but some legal experts said prosecutors laid out a wealth of evidence to the contrary and that they intended to leave that determination to Congress. Special Counsel Robert Mueller's report revealed new details about Trump's attempts to impede his investigation on Thursday. They included how the president tried to fire Mueller and limit his investigation, kept details of a June 2016 meeting between senior campaign officials and a Russian under wraps, and possibly dangled a pardon to a former adviser. Democrats said on Thursday the report contained disturbing evidence of wrongdoing by Trump that could fuel congressional investigations. Some legal experts echoed that view. They said the evidence should have given prosecutors a strong basis for bringing an obstruction case against Trump, but Mueller demurred because a longstanding Department of Justice policy against indicting a sitting president.   Jens Ohlin, a law professor at Cornell University, said the evidence laid out by the Mueller report was "really exhaustive in terms of the number of incidents and how severe they are." In his report, Mueller focused on a series of actions, including Trump's conduct toward law enforcement officials and witnesses. At one point, Mueller says the Congress has powers to check a president. At least half a dozen legal experts said the special counsel intended Congress to take up the matter.  "There is a wink, and a nod, and another wink to Congress that I have a lot of evidence and now the ball is in your court," said Jessica Levinson, a professor at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles. House Democrats took that view as well. In a joint statement, the House chairs said "the Special Counsel undoubtedly anticipated" the Congress must assess the evidence.  But Republican Congressman Doug Collins disputed that Mueller intended for Congress to decide on the view.  "The report doesn’t say Congress should investigate obstruction now. It says Congress can make laws about obstruction," Collins tweeted.  A spokesman for Mueller declined to comment.  Trump's legal team called the report "a total victory" for the president. "If they thought they had an obstruction case they would have made it. They did not," said Jay Sekulow, a lawyer for Trump, in an interview. It is unclear whether the Democrats will push on Congressional censure. And even if the House votes to impeach, it is highly unlikely the Republican controlled Senate would convict Trump. Attorney General William Barr, a Trump appointee, defended the president in a press conference Thursday by saying there was insufficient evidence to bring an obstruction case against Trump. In an earlier letter to lawmakers, Barr said the case was also undermined by Mueller's finding that the Trump campaign did not conspire with Russians to interfere in the election. WATERGATE-ERA OPINION Under U.S. law, it is a crime to attempt "to influence, obstruct or impede the due administration of justice."  To prove obstruction, prosecutors must show an individual acted with a "corrupt" or improper motive - a specific intent to impede an investigation. Obstruction of justice is often coupled with some underlying wrongful act that is being covered up, legal experts said. With a sitting president, the issue takes on additional complications. A Justice department policy dating back to the Watergate scandal in the early 1970s advises against indicting a sitting president.  The U.S. Constitution is silent on the question. In his report, Mueller said he "accepted" the department's legal opinion and was unable to come to a conclusion about whether there was enough evidence to charge Trump with obstruction. QUESTION OF MOTIVE The president's actions and intent "presents difficult issues that prevent us from conclusively determining that no criminal conduct occurred," Mueller wrote.  But Mueller added that his report "also does not exonerate" Trump of the crime.  In reaching his decision not to charge Trump, Barr said the president had been "frustrated and angered" by a belief that the probe was undermining his presidency.  Despite this, Trump did not deprive Mueller of documents and witnesses needed to complete the investigation, Barr said.  "Apart from whether the acts were obstructive, this evidence of non-corrupt motives weights heavily against any allegation that the president had a corrupt intent to obstruct the investigation," he said.   (Additional reporting by Sarah N. Lynch, Richard Cowan and Karen Freifeld; Editing by Paritosh Bansal and Edward Tobin)

Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — The U.S. Attorney General decided that President Donald Trump did not obstruct a probe into whether his campaign colluded with Russia, but some legal experts said prosecutors laid out a wealth of evidence to the contrary and that they intended to leave that determination to Congress. Special Counsel Robert Mueller's report revealed new details about Trump's attempts to impede his investigation on Thursday. They included how the president tried to fire Mueller and limit his investigation, kept details of a June 2016 meeting between senior campaign officials and a Russian under wraps, and possibly dangled a pardon to a former adviser. Democrats said on Thursday the report contained disturbing evidence of wrongdoing by Trump that could fuel congressional investigations. Some legal experts echoed that view. They said the evidence should have given prosecutors a strong basis for bringing an obstruction case against Trump, but Mueller demurred because a longstanding Department of Justice policy against indicting a sitting president.   Jens Ohlin, a law professor at Cornell University, said the evidence laid out by the Mueller report was "really exhaustive in terms of the number of incidents and how severe they are." In his report, Mueller focused on a series of actions, including Trump's conduct toward law enforcement officials and witnesses. At one point, Mueller says the Congress has powers to check a president. At least half a dozen legal experts said the special counsel intended Congress to take up the matter.  "There is a wink, and a nod, and another wink to Congress that I have a lot of evidence and now the ball is in your court," said Jessica Levinson, a professor at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles. House Democrats took that view as well. In a joint statement, the House chairs said "the Special Counsel undoubtedly anticipated" the Congress must assess the evidence.  But Republican Congressman Doug Collins disputed that Mueller intended for Congress to decide on the view.  "The report doesn’t say Congress should investigate obstruction now. It says Congress can make laws about obstruction," Collins tweeted.  A spokesman for Mueller declined to comment.  Trump's legal team called the report "a total victory" for the president. "If they thought they had an obstruction case they would have made it. They did not," said Jay Sekulow, a lawyer for Trump, in an interview. It is unclear whether the Democrats will push on Congressional censure. And even if the House votes to impeach, it is highly unlikely the Republican controlled Senate would convict Trump. Attorney General William Barr, a Trump appointee, defended the president in a press conference Thursday by saying there was insufficient evidence to bring an obstruction case against Trump. In an earlier letter to lawmakers, Barr said the case was also undermined by Mueller's finding that the Trump campaign did not conspire with Russians to interfere in the election. WATERGATE-ERA OPINION Under U.S. law, it is a crime to attempt "to influence, obstruct or impede the due administration of justice."  To prove obstruction, prosecutors must show an individual acted with a "corrupt" or improper motive - a specific intent to impede an investigation. Obstruction of justice is often coupled with some underlying wrongful act that is being covered up, legal experts said. With a sitting president, the issue takes on additional complications. A Justice department policy dating back to the Watergate scandal in the early 1970s advises against indicting a sitting president.  The U.S. Constitution is silent on the question. In his report, Mueller said he "accepted" the department's legal opinion and was unable to come to a conclusion about whether there was enough evidence to charge Trump with obstruction. QUESTION OF MOTIVE The president's actions and intent "presents difficult issues that prevent us from conclusively determining that no criminal conduct occurred," Mueller wrote.  But Mueller added that his report "also does not exonerate" Trump of the crime.  In reaching his decision not to charge Trump, Barr said the president had been "frustrated and angered" by a belief that the probe was undermining his presidency.  Despite this, Trump did not deprive Mueller of documents and witnesses needed to complete the investigation, Barr said.  "Apart from whether the acts were obstructive, this evidence of non-corrupt motives weights heavily against any allegation that the president had a corrupt intent to obstruct the investigation," he said.   (Additional reporting by Sarah N. Lynch, Richard Cowan and Karen Freifeld; Editing by Paritosh Bansal and Edward Tobin)Supported by By Tiffany Hsu The legions of reporters and commentators following every move by Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, do not know when he will finish investigating Russian interference in the 2016 election. And it is unclear whether the report he is expected to file will ever become public. That hasn’t stopped two publishers from setting a date, March 26, for when people can buy their book versions of the eagerly anticipated document. One online outlet is already describing one of those books as a bona fide hit. Amazon’s listing for “The Mueller Report: The Final Report of the Special Counsel into Donald Trump, Russia and Collusion,” carries a “best seller” label based on pre-orders. On Barnes & Noble’s website, the publisher Skyhorse is promoting the $9.40 paperback — with Mr. Mueller and the Department of Justice as authors — as “required reading.” For $10.50, readers can also put in an advanced order for “The Mueller Report” from The Washington Post and the Simon & Schuster imprint Scribner, which bills the report as “the most anticipated investigative document of this century.” The question of when Mr. Mueller will file his report has been a topic of heated speculation for some time, with the fever rising in recent weeks. But his investigation is among the most tightly guarded government operations in memory. The “Game of Thrones” series finale probably has a better chance of being leaked than details from inside Mr. Mueller’s inquiry. Do the publishers know something everyone else doesn’t? It turns out, they do not. The publishing date for the Skyhorse book is “fluid,” Nick Magliato, a project editor for the company, said on Thursday. To clear up any confusion, the company plans to add a note specifying that the listed date is only a placeholder. Mr. Magliato said those working on the Skyhorse project initially thought the Mueller report would  come this week, giving them time to read, typeset and print a hard copy by March 26, with an e-book available in under 48 hours. What if Attorney General William P. Barr chooses not to make large parts of it public? Will buyers of the Skyhorse book, listed at 960 pages, receive something the size of “Gone With the Wind” with many pages of shruggie emoticons? Or will the book perhaps be similar to another title now available on Amazon, “A Comprehensive Review of the Lies in the Mueller Report: Exhaustive Analysis of Each and Every Specific Lie,” which features more than 100 blank pages. The listed page count of Skyhorse’s book “is a complete guess” and is subject to change, Mr. Magliato said. And if the contents of the report are kept entirely confidential? “Then we don’t publish it, unfortunately,” Mr. Magliato said. Advance orders would be canceled and payments refunded, he said. (That happened, he said, when the right-wing provocateur Milo Yiannopoulos lost his book deal with Simon & Schuster in 2017). Brian Belfiglio, Scribner’s publicity director, said his company had also settled on March 26 as a placeholder date for The Post’s book because retailers planning to sell it wanted something specific for their online listings. If the report is made public sooner, he said, the book will be published sooner. If the results are delayed, the sale date will be pushed back. The Post plans to supplement its version with reporting and commentary by the newspaper’s reporters. In a statement, Martin Baron, The Post’s executive editor, said the book would help “in providing context and perspective” during “a supremely important moment in American history.” Skyhorse, an independent publisher, has lined up Alan Dershowitz, a Harvard Law School professor whose criticism of Mr. Mueller’s investigation has won him  praise from President Trump and disdain from the Martha’s Vineyard elite, to write an introduction. The publisher, whose recent titles include books about WikiLeaks, the video game Fortnite, slow cooker recipes and a sloth, previously published Mr. Dershowitz’s book “The Case Against the Democratic House Impeaching Trump.” The Skyhorse website’s page has a section for reviews, which includes this blurb from the journalist Dan Rather: “There’s never been anything like this in American history.” The website does not say the quote is from a CNN segment in August, or that he was talking about President Trump’s political and legal problems. Despite being listed by Skyhorse as an author, Mr. Mueller would not receive any profits from a book bearing his name. Under federal law, work prepared by United States government is in the public domain. Books based on government reports are not unusual, and they sometimes gain commercial success. In 1998, The Post and the publisher Public Affairs released “The Starr Report: The Findings of Independent Counsel Kenneth W. Starr on President Clinton and the Lewinsky Affair,” a paperback version of the report prepared by Mr. Starr, the independent counsel. The book, along with two other editions, hit the top of The New York Times’s best-seller list when it was released, said Jaime Leifer, the publicity director for PublicAffairs. It has sold 160,000 copies to date. Follow Tiffany Hsu on Twitter: @tiffkhsu.

Supported by By Tiffany Hsu The legions of reporters and commentators following every move by Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, do not know when he will finish investigating Russian interference in the 2016 election. And it is unclear whether the report he is expected to file will ever become public. That hasn’t stopped two publishers from setting a date, March 26, for when people can buy their book versions of the eagerly anticipated document. One online outlet is already describing one of those books as a bona fide hit. Amazon’s listing for “The Mueller Report: The Final Report of the Special Counsel into Donald Trump, Russia and Collusion,” carries a “best seller” label based on pre-orders. On Barnes & Noble’s website, the publisher Skyhorse is promoting the $9.40 paperback — with Mr. Mueller and the Department of Justice as authors — as “required reading.” For $10.50, readers can also put in an advanced order for “The Mueller Report” from The Washington Post and the Simon & Schuster imprint Scribner, which bills the report as “the most anticipated investigative document of this century.” The question of when Mr. Mueller will file his report has been a topic of heated speculation for some time, with the fever rising in recent weeks. But his investigation is among the most tightly guarded government operations in memory. The “Game of Thrones” series finale probably has a better chance of being leaked than details from inside Mr. Mueller’s inquiry. Do the publishers know something everyone else doesn’t? It turns out, they do not. The publishing date for the Skyhorse book is “fluid,” Nick Magliato, a project editor for the company, said on Thursday. To clear up any confusion, the company plans to add a note specifying that the listed date is only a placeholder. Mr. Magliato said those working on the Skyhorse project initially thought the Mueller report would  come this week, giving them time to read, typeset and print a hard copy by March 26, with an e-book available in under 48 hours. What if Attorney General William P. Barr chooses not to make large parts of it public? Will buyers of the Skyhorse book, listed at 960 pages, receive something the size of “Gone With the Wind” with many pages of shruggie emoticons? Or will the book perhaps be similar to another title now available on Amazon, “A Comprehensive Review of the Lies in the Mueller Report: Exhaustive Analysis of Each and Every Specific Lie,” which features more than 100 blank pages. The listed page count of Skyhorse’s book “is a complete guess” and is subject to change, Mr. Magliato said. And if the contents of the report are kept entirely confidential? “Then we don’t publish it, unfortunately,” Mr. Magliato said. Advance orders would be canceled and payments refunded, he said. (That happened, he said, when the right-wing provocateur Milo Yiannopoulos lost his book deal with Simon & Schuster in 2017). Brian Belfiglio, Scribner’s publicity director, said his company had also settled on March 26 as a placeholder date for The Post’s book because retailers planning to sell it wanted something specific for their online listings. If the report is made public sooner, he said, the book will be published sooner. If the results are delayed, the sale date will be pushed back. The Post plans to supplement its version with reporting and commentary by the newspaper’s reporters. In a statement, Martin Baron, The Post’s executive editor, said the book would help “in providing context and perspective” during “a supremely important moment in American history.” Skyhorse, an independent publisher, has lined up Alan Dershowitz, a Harvard Law School professor whose criticism of Mr. Mueller’s investigation has won him  praise from President Trump and disdain from the Martha’s Vineyard elite, to write an introduction. The publisher, whose recent titles include books about WikiLeaks, the video game Fortnite, slow cooker recipes and a sloth, previously published Mr. Dershowitz’s book “The Case Against the Democratic House Impeaching Trump.” The Skyhorse website’s page has a section for reviews, which includes this blurb from the journalist Dan Rather: “There’s never been anything like this in American history.” The website does not say the quote is from a CNN segment in August, or that he was talking about President Trump’s political and legal problems. Despite being listed by Skyhorse as an author, Mr. Mueller would not receive any profits from a book bearing his name. Under federal law, work prepared by United States government is in the public domain. Books based on government reports are not unusual, and they sometimes gain commercial success. In 1998, The Post and the publisher Public Affairs released “The Starr Report: The Findings of Independent Counsel Kenneth W. Starr on President Clinton and the Lewinsky Affair,” a paperback version of the report prepared by Mr. Starr, the independent counsel. The book, along with two other editions, hit the top of The New York Times’s best-seller list when it was released, said Jaime Leifer, the publicity director for PublicAffairs. It has sold 160,000 copies to date. Follow Tiffany Hsu on Twitter: @tiffkhsu.Supported by By Mark Mazzetti, Maggie Haberman, Nicholas Fandos and Katie Benner WASHINGTON — Not all of Robert S. Mueller III’s findings will be news to President Trump when they are released Thursday. Justice Department officials have had numerous conversations with White House lawyers about the conclusions made by Mr. Mueller, the special counsel, in recent days, according to people with knowledge of the discussions. The talks have aided the president’s legal team as it prepares a rebuttal to the report and strategizes for the coming public war over its findings. A sense of paranoia was taking hold among some of Mr. Trump’s aides, some of whom fear his backlash more than the findings themselves, the people said. The report might make clear which of Mr. Trump’s current and former advisers spoke to the special counsel, how much they said and how much damage they did to the president — providing a kind of road map for retaliation. The discussions between Justice Department officials and White House lawyers have also added to questions about the propriety of the decisions by Attorney General William P. Barr since he received Mr. Mueller’s findings late last month. Mr. Barr and his deputy, Rod J. Rosenstein, determined that Mr. Trump did not illegally obstruct justice and said the special counsel found no conspiracy between the Trump campaign and Russia’s 2016 election interference. Mr. Barr told lawmakers that officials were “spying” on the Trump campaign, raised ominous historical parallels with the illegal surveillance of Vietnam War protesters and pointedly declined to rebut charges that Mr. Mueller’s investigators were engaged in a “witch hunt.” The findings from the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, are now available to the public. The redacted report details his two-year investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election. Spokespeople for the White House and the Justice Department declined to comment. Mr. Barr, who plans to hold a news conference at 9:30 a.m. Thursday to discuss the special counsel’s report, refused to answer questions from lawmakers last week about whether the department had given the White House a preview of Mr. Mueller’s findings. The Justice Department plans to turn the report over to Congress between 11 a.m. and noon on CDs, and it will be posted on the special counsel’s website sometime after, according to a senior department official. Though the delivery method might sound outdated, it is not unusual for lawmakers to receive large tranches of government information on the discs. Much is at stake for Mr. Barr in Thursday’s expected release, especially if the report presents a far more damning portrayal of the president’s behavior — and of his campaign’s dealings with Russians — than the attorney general indicated in the four-page letter he wrote in March. That letter generated anger among some members of Mr. Mueller’s team, who believed it failed to adequately portray the findings of their inquiry and have told associates that the report was more troubling for Mr. Trump than Mr. Barr indicated. His plans to black out sensitive information in the report have drawn complaints, particularly from Democrats who have demanded the document’s full text. Justice Department rules do not require Mr. Barr to make the special counsel’s report public, and the attorney general’s defenders say he will fulfill pledges of transparency he made during his confirmation hearings to make as much of the document public as possible. A significant portion of the report will be readable, a government official said. Still, any redaction, no matter how minuscule, could omit information crucial to understanding what investigators uncovered. Even a redacted report is likely to answer some of the outstanding questions about Russia’s attempts to sabotage the election; contacts between Kremlin intermediaries and the Trump campaign; and the president’s efforts to derail the investigation. Mr. Mueller’s report examines each episode that was part of the president’s attempts to undermine the investigation, Mr. Barr wrote in his letter. Investigators focused on whether the president used his position atop the executive branch to impede their inquiry. Mr. Mueller’s team scrutinized Mr. Trump’s efforts to end an investigation into his first national security adviser and to oust law enforcement officials — like the former F.B.I. director James B. Comey — who Mr. Trump believed were disloyal. Mr. Mueller also closely examined Mr. Trump’s attempt in June 2017 to have the special counsel himself fired. Mr. Barr also wrote that Mr. Mueller explains why he did not make a determination on an obstruction offense, laying out evidence “on both sides of the question.” Though investigators did not exonerate him, “the evidence does not establish that the president was involved in an underlying crime related to Russian election interference,” the report said, according to Mr. Barr’s letter. The information that Justice Department officials have provided to the White House could potentially be valuable for Mr. Trump’s legal team as it finalizes a rebuttal to the Mueller report — expected to be released not long after the department makes the special counsel’s findings public. Advisers to Mr. Trump insist that they still do not know many details about Mr. Mueller’s conclusions. The president’s aides have devised a strategy for numerous lawyers and political aides to quickly read different parts of the document to develop a rebuttal strategy, according to multiple people briefed on the plan. The recent conversations between the Justice Department and the White House were first reported by ABC News. Democrats on Capitol Hill, armed with subpoena power and deeply mistrustful of Mr. Barr’s motivations since he was first nominated, have pressed for more and believe they could soon have the upper hand. They have demanded the full text of the report and access to the underlying evidence they say is necessary for continuing congressional inquiries into foreign influence and obstruction of justice. More than two years of criminal indictments and steady revelations about Trump campaign contacts with Russians reveal the scope of the special counsel investigation. The House Judiciary Committee has already authorized a subpoena for its chairman, Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, to try to force Mr. Barr to hand that material over to Congress. “On the assumption that it’s heavily redacted, we will most certainly issue the subpoenas in very short order,” Mr. Nadler said Wednesday evening at a hastily called news conference in New York. Promising more transparency, the government said it would let a select group of lawmakers see some of the material related to the case against Roger J. Stone Jr. that had been redacted from the initial public version of the report, according to a filing on Wednesday in the Stone case. Mr. Nadler cautioned, though, that his committee had not been made aware of any such accommodation. Representative David Cicilline, Democrat of Rhode Island and a member of the Judiciary Committee, on Wednesday accused Mr. Barr of trying to “insulate” Mr. Trump, comparing him to Roy Cohn, one of Mr. Trump’s former personal lawyers known for his fierce efforts to protect his boss. Mr. Nadler took particular umbrage that Mr. Barr would hold a news conference before Congress or the public sees the report. “The attorney general appears to be waging a media campaign on behalf of President Trump,” Mr. Nadler said. He added, “Rather than letting the facts of the report speak for themselves, the attorney general has taken unprecedented steps to spin Mueller’s nearly two-year investigation.” He pressed Mr. Barr to cancel his own news briefing scheduled for Thursday. Democrats in recent weeks have accelerated investigations of the president, his campaign, businesses and administration, issuing a flurry of subpoenas and voluntary requests that could aid their work. They intend to incorporate whatever they glean from Thursday’s report into those investigations, which they argue Congress has its own constitutional duty to conduct regardless of Mr. Barr’s conclusion. Doing so could also allow party leaders to cool any potential heat within the party to initiate impeachment proceedings against the president — a possibility Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California has repeatedly said would be politically unwise, absent startling new evidence of wrongdoing. Democrats concede that the real challenge will be to persuade Republicans and the broader public to keep focused on a case that the attorney general weeks ago essentially declared was closed. A key witness in the obstruction investigation was the former White House counsel Donald F. McGahn II, who spent more than 30 hours with Mr. Mueller’s team. Mr. McGahn explained in detail how Mr. Trump tried to gain control over the investigation. Mr. Trump’s legal team never thoroughly debriefed Mr. McGahn’s lawyer about what his client told investigators, leaving the president’s lawyers in the dark about what Mr. McGahn said. In recent weeks, White House officials have grown increasingly concerned about what Mr. McGahn told the Mueller team and believe his statements could be used in the report to paint a damning portrait of the president, two people close to the White House said. Republicans have seized on Mr. Barr’s decision to clear the president of criminal obstruction of justice and plan to try to reinvigorate their own inquiries into decision making inside the Justice Department and the F.B.I. in 2016 that prompted law enforcement officials to open the Russia investigation. Mr. Barr gave ammunition to those efforts last week, when he described law enforcement surveillance of the Trump campaign as “spying.” The remark reinforced a narrative long pushed by Mr. Trump and his allies in Congress — that a “deep state” tried to prevent Mr. Trump from becoming president and has tried to undo his presidency. Mr. Barr’s comments sent shudders through law enforcement ranks and surprised many who saw him as a stabilizing force whose instincts would be to protect the Justice Department from political attacks — unlike former Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Matthew G. Whitaker, who held the job in an acting capacity after the president forced out Mr. Sessions. Michael S. Schmidt contributed reporting.   

Supported by By Mark Mazzetti, Maggie Haberman, Nicholas Fandos and Katie Benner WASHINGTON — Not all of Robert S. Mueller III’s findings will be news to President Trump when they are released Thursday. Justice Department officials have had numerous conversations with White House lawyers about the conclusions made by Mr. Mueller, the special counsel, in recent days, according to people with knowledge of the discussions. The talks have aided the president’s legal team as it prepares a rebuttal to the report and strategizes for the coming public war over its findings. A sense of paranoia was taking hold among some of Mr. Trump’s aides, some of whom fear his backlash more than the findings themselves, the people said. The report might make clear which of Mr. Trump’s current and former advisers spoke to the special counsel, how much they said and how much damage they did to the president — providing a kind of road map for retaliation. The discussions between Justice Department officials and White House lawyers have also added to questions about the propriety of the decisions by Attorney General William P. Barr since he received Mr. Mueller’s findings late last month. Mr. Barr and his deputy, Rod J. Rosenstein, determined that Mr. Trump did not illegally obstruct justice and said the special counsel found no conspiracy between the Trump campaign and Russia’s 2016 election interference. Mr. Barr told lawmakers that officials were “spying” on the Trump campaign, raised ominous historical parallels with the illegal surveillance of Vietnam War protesters and pointedly declined to rebut charges that Mr. Mueller’s investigators were engaged in a “witch hunt.” The findings from the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, are now available to the public. The redacted report details his two-year investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election. Spokespeople for the White House and the Justice Department declined to comment. Mr. Barr, who plans to hold a news conference at 9:30 a.m. Thursday to discuss the special counsel’s report, refused to answer questions from lawmakers last week about whether the department had given the White House a preview of Mr. Mueller’s findings. The Justice Department plans to turn the report over to Congress between 11 a.m. and noon on CDs, and it will be posted on the special counsel’s website sometime after, according to a senior department official. Though the delivery method might sound outdated, it is not unusual for lawmakers to receive large tranches of government information on the discs. Much is at stake for Mr. Barr in Thursday’s expected release, especially if the report presents a far more damning portrayal of the president’s behavior — and of his campaign’s dealings with Russians — than the attorney general indicated in the four-page letter he wrote in March. That letter generated anger among some members of Mr. Mueller’s team, who believed it failed to adequately portray the findings of their inquiry and have told associates that the report was more troubling for Mr. Trump than Mr. Barr indicated. His plans to black out sensitive information in the report have drawn complaints, particularly from Democrats who have demanded the document’s full text. Justice Department rules do not require Mr. Barr to make the special counsel’s report public, and the attorney general’s defenders say he will fulfill pledges of transparency he made during his confirmation hearings to make as much of the document public as possible. A significant portion of the report will be readable, a government official said. Still, any redaction, no matter how minuscule, could omit information crucial to understanding what investigators uncovered. Even a redacted report is likely to answer some of the outstanding questions about Russia’s attempts to sabotage the election; contacts between Kremlin intermediaries and the Trump campaign; and the president’s efforts to derail the investigation. Mr. Mueller’s report examines each episode that was part of the president’s attempts to undermine the investigation, Mr. Barr wrote in his letter. Investigators focused on whether the president used his position atop the executive branch to impede their inquiry. Mr. Mueller’s team scrutinized Mr. Trump’s efforts to end an investigation into his first national security adviser and to oust law enforcement officials — like the former F.B.I. director James B. Comey — who Mr. Trump believed were disloyal. Mr. Mueller also closely examined Mr. Trump’s attempt in June 2017 to have the special counsel himself fired. Mr. Barr also wrote that Mr. Mueller explains why he did not make a determination on an obstruction offense, laying out evidence “on both sides of the question.” Though investigators did not exonerate him, “the evidence does not establish that the president was involved in an underlying crime related to Russian election interference,” the report said, according to Mr. Barr’s letter. The information that Justice Department officials have provided to the White House could potentially be valuable for Mr. Trump’s legal team as it finalizes a rebuttal to the Mueller report — expected to be released not long after the department makes the special counsel’s findings public. Advisers to Mr. Trump insist that they still do not know many details about Mr. Mueller’s conclusions. The president’s aides have devised a strategy for numerous lawyers and political aides to quickly read different parts of the document to develop a rebuttal strategy, according to multiple people briefed on the plan. The recent conversations between the Justice Department and the White House were first reported by ABC News. Democrats on Capitol Hill, armed with subpoena power and deeply mistrustful of Mr. Barr’s motivations since he was first nominated, have pressed for more and believe they could soon have the upper hand. They have demanded the full text of the report and access to the underlying evidence they say is necessary for continuing congressional inquiries into foreign influence and obstruction of justice. More than two years of criminal indictments and steady revelations about Trump campaign contacts with Russians reveal the scope of the special counsel investigation. The House Judiciary Committee has already authorized a subpoena for its chairman, Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, to try to force Mr. Barr to hand that material over to Congress. “On the assumption that it’s heavily redacted, we will most certainly issue the subpoenas in very short order,” Mr. Nadler said Wednesday evening at a hastily called news conference in New York. Promising more transparency, the government said it would let a select group of lawmakers see some of the material related to the case against Roger J. Stone Jr. that had been redacted from the initial public version of the report, according to a filing on Wednesday in the Stone case. Mr. Nadler cautioned, though, that his committee had not been made aware of any such accommodation. Representative David Cicilline, Democrat of Rhode Island and a member of the Judiciary Committee, on Wednesday accused Mr. Barr of trying to “insulate” Mr. Trump, comparing him to Roy Cohn, one of Mr. Trump’s former personal lawyers known for his fierce efforts to protect his boss. Mr. Nadler took particular umbrage that Mr. Barr would hold a news conference before Congress or the public sees the report. “The attorney general appears to be waging a media campaign on behalf of President Trump,” Mr. Nadler said. He added, “Rather than letting the facts of the report speak for themselves, the attorney general has taken unprecedented steps to spin Mueller’s nearly two-year investigation.” He pressed Mr. Barr to cancel his own news briefing scheduled for Thursday. Democrats in recent weeks have accelerated investigations of the president, his campaign, businesses and administration, issuing a flurry of subpoenas and voluntary requests that could aid their work. They intend to incorporate whatever they glean from Thursday’s report into those investigations, which they argue Congress has its own constitutional duty to conduct regardless of Mr. Barr’s conclusion. Doing so could also allow party leaders to cool any potential heat within the party to initiate impeachment proceedings against the president — a possibility Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California has repeatedly said would be politically unwise, absent startling new evidence of wrongdoing. Democrats concede that the real challenge will be to persuade Republicans and the broader public to keep focused on a case that the attorney general weeks ago essentially declared was closed. A key witness in the obstruction investigation was the former White House counsel Donald F. McGahn II, who spent more than 30 hours with Mr. Mueller’s team. Mr. McGahn explained in detail how Mr. Trump tried to gain control over the investigation. Mr. Trump’s legal team never thoroughly debriefed Mr. McGahn’s lawyer about what his client told investigators, leaving the president’s lawyers in the dark about what Mr. McGahn said. In recent weeks, White House officials have grown increasingly concerned about what Mr. McGahn told the Mueller team and believe his statements could be used in the report to paint a damning portrait of the president, two people close to the White House said. Republicans have seized on Mr. Barr’s decision to clear the president of criminal obstruction of justice and plan to try to reinvigorate their own inquiries into decision making inside the Justice Department and the F.B.I. in 2016 that prompted law enforcement officials to open the Russia investigation. Mr. Barr gave ammunition to those efforts last week, when he described law enforcement surveillance of the Trump campaign as “spying.” The remark reinforced a narrative long pushed by Mr. Trump and his allies in Congress — that a “deep state” tried to prevent Mr. Trump from becoming president and has tried to undo his presidency. Mr. Barr’s comments sent shudders through law enforcement ranks and surprised many who saw him as a stabilizing force whose instincts would be to protect the Justice Department from political attacks — unlike former Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Matthew G. Whitaker, who held the job in an acting capacity after the president forced out Mr. Sessions. Michael S. Schmidt contributed reporting.   Supported by By The Associated Press NEW YORK — Special counsel Robert Mueller's long-awaited report outlined Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election. But Mueller did not establish that members of the Trump campaign conspired or coordinated with the Russian government, and he made no conclusion on the question of whether the president obstructed justice. As lawmakers await a version of the report with fewer redactions, here's a look at the other investigations surrounding Trump and inquiries that stemmed from Mueller's Russia investigation. Trump has dismissed the investigations as politically motivated harassment. HUSH-MONEY PROBE Federal prosecutors in New York are still investigating the hush-money payments that led Trump's former attorney, Michael Cohen, to plead guilty last year to campaign-finance violations. There are mounting indications the probe is winding down, but a federal judge this year ordered portions of a search warrant to be kept secret until prosecutors tell him the investigation has concluded. Cohen helped orchestrate six-figure payments to a porn actress, Stormy Daniels, and a former Playboy model, Karen McDougal, to keep them quiet during the campaign about alleged affairs with Trump. Cohen has implicated Trump in the case, saying he ordered the payments and later reimbursed him for his efforts. The U.S. Justice Department has held for decades that a sitting president cannot be indicted. If prosecutors find evidence Trump committed a crime, they could wait to charge him after he leaves office, though the legal deadline for filing charges is five years for the campaign-finance violations in question. Trump says the payments to Daniels and McDougal were a private matter unrelated to his campaign. Cohen is scheduled to begin serving a three-year prison sentence next month. MUELLER'S REFERALS In all, Mueller's team said it referred 14 cases to prosecutors in other jurisdictions, including the Cohen case, which was handled by the Southern District of New York. A dozen of those investigations were blacked out of Mueller's report because those inquiries remain ongoing. It's not clear whether they will result in any charges. Another case that was referred was that of Gregory Craig, the former Obama White House counsel charged recently with making a false statement in a foreign lobbying probe. STATE INQUIRIES New York's attorney general has opened a civil investigation into Cohen's allegations that Trump exaggerated his wealth to obtain loans. Letitia James, a Democrat, issued subpoenas last month to Deutsche Bank and Investors Bank seeking loan applications and other records related to Trump real estate projects and his failed 2014 bid to buy the Buffalo Bills. James' office is also overseeing a lawsuit alleging Trump turned his charitable foundation into a wing of his White House campaign. The Trump Foundation reached a deal in December to fold and distribute about $1.7 million in remaining funds, but the lawsuit is continuing as James seeks millions of dollars in restitution and an order banning Trump and his three eldest children from running any New York charities for 10 years. At the same time, New York's insurance regulator is investigating Cohen's allegations that Trump also misled insurance companies about his financial worth and the state's tax department has said it's "vigorously pursuing all appropriate avenues of investigation" into a New York Times story last October that reported Trump and his family cheated tax authorities for decades. New York City also said it would investigate. INAUGURAL PROBE Federal prosecutors in New York are also investigating Trump's inaugural committee, which raised an unprecedented $107 million to celebrate his election. The inquiry has focused partly on whether donors received "benefits" after making contributions or whether foreign nationals made illegal donations, according to a subpoena sent to the committee. The same document shows prosecutors are looking at whether the committee's vendors were paid with unreported donations. The White House has said Trump was not involved in the operations of his inaugural committee. __ This version of the story has been corrected to show that Cohen was sentenced to 3 years in prison, not months.

Supported by By The Associated Press NEW YORK — Special counsel Robert Mueller's long-awaited report outlined Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election. But Mueller did not establish that members of the Trump campaign conspired or coordinated with the Russian government, and he made no conclusion on the question of whether the president obstructed justice. As lawmakers await a version of the report with fewer redactions, here's a look at the other investigations surrounding Trump and inquiries that stemmed from Mueller's Russia investigation. Trump has dismissed the investigations as politically motivated harassment. HUSH-MONEY PROBE Federal prosecutors in New York are still investigating the hush-money payments that led Trump's former attorney, Michael Cohen, to plead guilty last year to campaign-finance violations. There are mounting indications the probe is winding down, but a federal judge this year ordered portions of a search warrant to be kept secret until prosecutors tell him the investigation has concluded. Cohen helped orchestrate six-figure payments to a porn actress, Stormy Daniels, and a former Playboy model, Karen McDougal, to keep them quiet during the campaign about alleged affairs with Trump. Cohen has implicated Trump in the case, saying he ordered the payments and later reimbursed him for his efforts. The U.S. Justice Department has held for decades that a sitting president cannot be indicted. If prosecutors find evidence Trump committed a crime, they could wait to charge him after he leaves office, though the legal deadline for filing charges is five years for the campaign-finance violations in question. Trump says the payments to Daniels and McDougal were a private matter unrelated to his campaign. Cohen is scheduled to begin serving a three-year prison sentence next month. MUELLER'S REFERALS In all, Mueller's team said it referred 14 cases to prosecutors in other jurisdictions, including the Cohen case, which was handled by the Southern District of New York. A dozen of those investigations were blacked out of Mueller's report because those inquiries remain ongoing. It's not clear whether they will result in any charges. Another case that was referred was that of Gregory Craig, the former Obama White House counsel charged recently with making a false statement in a foreign lobbying probe. STATE INQUIRIES New York's attorney general has opened a civil investigation into Cohen's allegations that Trump exaggerated his wealth to obtain loans. Letitia James, a Democrat, issued subpoenas last month to Deutsche Bank and Investors Bank seeking loan applications and other records related to Trump real estate projects and his failed 2014 bid to buy the Buffalo Bills. James' office is also overseeing a lawsuit alleging Trump turned his charitable foundation into a wing of his White House campaign. The Trump Foundation reached a deal in December to fold and distribute about $1.7 million in remaining funds, but the lawsuit is continuing as James seeks millions of dollars in restitution and an order banning Trump and his three eldest children from running any New York charities for 10 years. At the same time, New York's insurance regulator is investigating Cohen's allegations that Trump also misled insurance companies about his financial worth and the state's tax department has said it's "vigorously pursuing all appropriate avenues of investigation" into a New York Times story last October that reported Trump and his family cheated tax authorities for decades. New York City also said it would investigate. INAUGURAL PROBE Federal prosecutors in New York are also investigating Trump's inaugural committee, which raised an unprecedented $107 million to celebrate his election. The inquiry has focused partly on whether donors received "benefits" after making contributions or whether foreign nationals made illegal donations, according to a subpoena sent to the committee. The same document shows prosecutors are looking at whether the committee's vendors were paid with unreported donations. The White House has said Trump was not involved in the operations of his inaugural committee. __ This version of the story has been corrected to show that Cohen was sentenced to 3 years in prison, not months.Supported by letters Readers react to the attorney general’s summary of the special counsel’s report. To the Editor: Re “Mueller Finds No Trump-Russia Conspiracy but Stops Short of Exonerating President on Obstruction of Justice” (nytimes.com, March 24): Let’s be perfectly clear: While the Mueller report may not have found that President Trump colluded with the Russians to meddle in the 2016 election, it did not specifically clear him of all wrongdoing. Mr. Trump’s conduct did not meet the rigorous legal standard of participating in a criminal conspiracy, but it was far from being blameless.  There is incontrovertible proof that Russia interfered in our electoral process on behalf of Donald Trump; few disagree with this. It is also clear that President Trump’s rhetoric and actions have been highly aligned with the interests of the Russian government.  So President Trump and his fellow Republicans may gloat that the Mueller report has fundamentally exonerated the president, but it has not alleviated valid concerns about his past and continuing behavior toward Russia. One of the terrible unintended consequences of the Mueller report is that it will not force the president to publicly acknowledge and reject Russia’s election meddling. Nor will it force him to allocate the resources necessary to actively thwart President Vladimir V. Putin from doing so again in 2020.  Mr. Trump, you may regard yourself as a winner who has been vindicated, but the American people and our free democratic electoral process are the losers.  In 1974, after President Richard M. Nixon resigned, the new president, Gerald R. Ford, said, “Our long national nightmare is over.” My hope is in January 2021, our newly inaugurated president will be able to say the same thing about the Trump era. Sadly that is not yet the case. Ken DerowSwarthmore, Pa. To the Editor: As an American and a Democrat, I am relieved to learn that the special counsel’s investigation has not found that the president worked with Russia to further his campaign. I believe that my fellow Democrats, and all Americans, should share such relief. That does not mean, however, that the president is fit to remain in office, and we should keep in mind how extraordinary it is that there could be serious questions about the relationship between him and those close to him and a hostile foreign power.  Moreover, many of the pertinent questions about that relationship remain unanswered. Jonathan J. MargolisBrookline, Mass. To the Editor: After Attorney General William Barr’s letter to Congress summarizing and sparingly quoting the Mueller report, President Trump and his family must be relieved. Regardless of the substantive details in the report, which will emerge, be analyzed and should be taken seriously, a critical question is how this will play out politically.  As a scholar of communication, I believe that the president is in a rhetorically advantageous position to spin the Mueller report. The Democrats must be careful not to get lost in the weeds.  Admittedly, the report concluded that the investigation did not “exonerate” Mr. Trump, and it must be noted that it was the attorney general who inferred that there was insufficient evidence legally to prove obstruction of justice.  Nevertheless, these may be overly nuanced points for Democrats to hang their hats on. But from a persuasion perspective, it will be incumbent on them to make clear that any remaining issues they wish to pursue are of importance to all Americans and not motivated by partisanship. Richard CherwitzAustin, Tex. The writer is a professor at the Moody College of Communication, University of Texas. To the Editor:  I am no fan of President Trump, but I do not share the enthusiasm of politicians and pundits to examine the findings of the Mueller inquiry. Put simply, my mind is made up about President Trump, and I dare say that the great majority of plain folks like me will greet this event with a big yawn.  Sad to say, Donald Trump will win the 2020 election if he decides to run, no matter what the full report has to say.  Matthew MenkenPrinceton, N.J.

Supported by letters Readers react to the attorney general’s summary of the special counsel’s report. To the Editor: Re “Mueller Finds No Trump-Russia Conspiracy but Stops Short of Exonerating President on Obstruction of Justice” (nytimes.com, March 24): Let’s be perfectly clear: While the Mueller report may not have found that President Trump colluded with the Russians to meddle in the 2016 election, it did not specifically clear him of all wrongdoing. Mr. Trump’s conduct did not meet the rigorous legal standard of participating in a criminal conspiracy, but it was far from being blameless.  There is incontrovertible proof that Russia interfered in our electoral process on behalf of Donald Trump; few disagree with this. It is also clear that President Trump’s rhetoric and actions have been highly aligned with the interests of the Russian government.  So President Trump and his fellow Republicans may gloat that the Mueller report has fundamentally exonerated the president, but it has not alleviated valid concerns about his past and continuing behavior toward Russia. One of the terrible unintended consequences of the Mueller report is that it will not force the president to publicly acknowledge and reject Russia’s election meddling. Nor will it force him to allocate the resources necessary to actively thwart President Vladimir V. Putin from doing so again in 2020.  Mr. Trump, you may regard yourself as a winner who has been vindicated, but the American people and our free democratic electoral process are the losers.  In 1974, after President Richard M. Nixon resigned, the new president, Gerald R. Ford, said, “Our long national nightmare is over.” My hope is in January 2021, our newly inaugurated president will be able to say the same thing about the Trump era. Sadly that is not yet the case. Ken DerowSwarthmore, Pa. To the Editor: As an American and a Democrat, I am relieved to learn that the special counsel’s investigation has not found that the president worked with Russia to further his campaign. I believe that my fellow Democrats, and all Americans, should share such relief. That does not mean, however, that the president is fit to remain in office, and we should keep in mind how extraordinary it is that there could be serious questions about the relationship between him and those close to him and a hostile foreign power.  Moreover, many of the pertinent questions about that relationship remain unanswered. Jonathan J. MargolisBrookline, Mass. To the Editor: After Attorney General William Barr’s letter to Congress summarizing and sparingly quoting the Mueller report, President Trump and his family must be relieved. Regardless of the substantive details in the report, which will emerge, be analyzed and should be taken seriously, a critical question is how this will play out politically.  As a scholar of communication, I believe that the president is in a rhetorically advantageous position to spin the Mueller report. The Democrats must be careful not to get lost in the weeds.  Admittedly, the report concluded that the investigation did not “exonerate” Mr. Trump, and it must be noted that it was the attorney general who inferred that there was insufficient evidence legally to prove obstruction of justice.  Nevertheless, these may be overly nuanced points for Democrats to hang their hats on. But from a persuasion perspective, it will be incumbent on them to make clear that any remaining issues they wish to pursue are of importance to all Americans and not motivated by partisanship. Richard CherwitzAustin, Tex. The writer is a professor at the Moody College of Communication, University of Texas. To the Editor:  I am no fan of President Trump, but I do not share the enthusiasm of politicians and pundits to examine the findings of the Mueller inquiry. Put simply, my mind is made up about President Trump, and I dare say that the great majority of plain folks like me will greet this event with a big yawn.  Sad to say, Donald Trump will win the 2020 election if he decides to run, no matter what the full report has to say.  Matthew MenkenPrinceton, N.J.Supported by Even if it is never released, the public already knows enough. By Caroline Fredrickson Ms. Fredrickson is the president of the American Constitution Society. People lie to hide the truth. They lie to hide crimes. And while everyone is dying for a peek at Robert Mueller’s bombshell report to see if he says any crimes were committed by the Trump campaign in 2016, the truth is actually already out there, hidden in plain sight. Mr. Mueller’s report may never go public, but we don’t need a peek at the recommendations he delivered on Friday to Attorney General William Barr to credibly assess that something unethical and likely illegal went on in 2016. The repeated lies told by Trump campaign staff members — lies about their connections to Russian figures — already spin a grand tale of conspiracy and deceit. And it’s a tale so suspect and sordid that President Trump and his associates felt the need to lie to hide it from law enforcement. This is not conjecture; some of Mr. Trump’s people are already in jail, having been convicted in federal court for lying to investigators about their connections to and interactions with Russians during the 2016 campaign. Others have pleaded guilty to similar crimes, which — it bears repeating — is what one does when presented with overwhelming evidence of one’s guilt. Still others await trial. Many more have been indicted. There’s the top Trump campaign official Paul Manafort, who is serving time for lying about his history of lobbying for Russian interests and sharing Trump campaign polling data with a Russian intelligence asset during the campaign. And there’s the close Trump associate Roger Stone, recently indicted on charges of lying about communications he had with Wikileaks before it released damaging information about Hillary Clinton that law enforcement believes was stolen by Russian hackers. The former Trump lawyer Michael Cohen is headed to jail after admitting that he lied to Congress about a business deal Mr. Trump was pursuing with Russian figures throughout the 2016 campaign, lies Mr. Trump himself echoed on the campaign trail. Michael Flynn, the president’s former national security adviser, will soon be doing time after admitting to making false statements to the F.B.I. to conceal December 2016 communications with Russia regarding the sanctions on Russia imposed by the Obama administration. Lastly, there is George Papadopoulos, a foreign policy adviser to the campaign, who arguably helped precipitate the investigation when he bragged about his knowledge of Russian “dirt” on Mrs. Clinton to an Australian diplomat who then alerted the F.B.I. Mr. Papadopoulos subsequently pleaded guilty to lying to the F.B.I. and served time in prison. Then there is the president himself. From the outset, Mr. Trump’s approach to the Mueller investigation has been characterized by paranoia and fear. With his increasingly shrill denials, the president comes across more as someone who fears he will be found out than someone convinced of his innocence. And he has lied to the American people. The president’s version of events regarding his campaign’s interactions with Russia has changed repeatedly since the investigation began. From early assertions during his campaign that he had no business interests in Russia, to claims about his role in issuing false statements about the infamous Trump Tower meeting with Russians, the president has been caught in numerous, verifiable lies on this issue. It just remains to be seen whether he lied to cover up actual criminal activity, including conspiring with a foreign power to sway an election, or working to obstruct investigations into those ties. Ideally, Mr. Barr will share Mr. Mueller’s report with the country. But if he elects to withhold it, President Trump will no doubt claim victory. He will no doubt treat the absence of an indictment as full vindication. But here’s a truth for the president: He was never going to be indicted. The Department of Justice has a longstanding policy against indicting a sitting president, and the absence of an indictment does not mean no evidence of conspiracy or obstruction was found. Indeed, Mr. Mueller’s report may not be the end of the president’s legal peril, only the beginning. That’s because report or no report, through his prosecutions, referrals, indictments, convictions and subpoenas, Mr. Mueller has already provided the House of Representative with some very clear paths for investigation.  So even if the Mueller report simply gets tossed in a drawer in Mr. Barr’s desk for all eternity, there is already sufficient material out there to let the House exercise its newly rediscovered oversight responsibilities and get to the bottom of what happened between the Trump campaign and Russia during the 2016 election.  Remember, Richard Nixon was not indicted, and there was no commensurate special counsel report in the Watergate scandal. There doesn’t need to be one here to right wrongs so egregious they were apparently worth lying about. Caroline Fredrickson (@crfredrickson) is the president of the American Constitution Society and author of “Under the Bus: How Working Women Are Being Run Over” and the forthcoming “The Democracy Fix: How to Win the Fight for Fair Rules, Fair Courts and Fair Elections.” The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. An earlier version of this essay misstated the status of George Papadopoulos, a foreign policy adviser during Donald Trump's 2016 campaign. He served 12 days in prison for lying to the F.B.I. and was released; he is not currently behind bars.

Supported by Even if it is never released, the public already knows enough. By Caroline Fredrickson Ms. Fredrickson is the president of the American Constitution Society. People lie to hide the truth. They lie to hide crimes. And while everyone is dying for a peek at Robert Mueller’s bombshell report to see if he says any crimes were committed by the Trump campaign in 2016, the truth is actually already out there, hidden in plain sight. Mr. Mueller’s report may never go public, but we don’t need a peek at the recommendations he delivered on Friday to Attorney General William Barr to credibly assess that something unethical and likely illegal went on in 2016. The repeated lies told by Trump campaign staff members — lies about their connections to Russian figures — already spin a grand tale of conspiracy and deceit. And it’s a tale so suspect and sordid that President Trump and his associates felt the need to lie to hide it from law enforcement. This is not conjecture; some of Mr. Trump’s people are already in jail, having been convicted in federal court for lying to investigators about their connections to and interactions with Russians during the 2016 campaign. Others have pleaded guilty to similar crimes, which — it bears repeating — is what one does when presented with overwhelming evidence of one’s guilt. Still others await trial. Many more have been indicted. There’s the top Trump campaign official Paul Manafort, who is serving time for lying about his history of lobbying for Russian interests and sharing Trump campaign polling data with a Russian intelligence asset during the campaign. And there’s the close Trump associate Roger Stone, recently indicted on charges of lying about communications he had with Wikileaks before it released damaging information about Hillary Clinton that law enforcement believes was stolen by Russian hackers. The former Trump lawyer Michael Cohen is headed to jail after admitting that he lied to Congress about a business deal Mr. Trump was pursuing with Russian figures throughout the 2016 campaign, lies Mr. Trump himself echoed on the campaign trail. Michael Flynn, the president’s former national security adviser, will soon be doing time after admitting to making false statements to the F.B.I. to conceal December 2016 communications with Russia regarding the sanctions on Russia imposed by the Obama administration. Lastly, there is George Papadopoulos, a foreign policy adviser to the campaign, who arguably helped precipitate the investigation when he bragged about his knowledge of Russian “dirt” on Mrs. Clinton to an Australian diplomat who then alerted the F.B.I. Mr. Papadopoulos subsequently pleaded guilty to lying to the F.B.I. and served time in prison. Then there is the president himself. From the outset, Mr. Trump’s approach to the Mueller investigation has been characterized by paranoia and fear. With his increasingly shrill denials, the president comes across more as someone who fears he will be found out than someone convinced of his innocence. And he has lied to the American people. The president’s version of events regarding his campaign’s interactions with Russia has changed repeatedly since the investigation began. From early assertions during his campaign that he had no business interests in Russia, to claims about his role in issuing false statements about the infamous Trump Tower meeting with Russians, the president has been caught in numerous, verifiable lies on this issue. It just remains to be seen whether he lied to cover up actual criminal activity, including conspiring with a foreign power to sway an election, or working to obstruct investigations into those ties. Ideally, Mr. Barr will share Mr. Mueller’s report with the country. But if he elects to withhold it, President Trump will no doubt claim victory. He will no doubt treat the absence of an indictment as full vindication. But here’s a truth for the president: He was never going to be indicted. The Department of Justice has a longstanding policy against indicting a sitting president, and the absence of an indictment does not mean no evidence of conspiracy or obstruction was found. Indeed, Mr. Mueller’s report may not be the end of the president’s legal peril, only the beginning. That’s because report or no report, through his prosecutions, referrals, indictments, convictions and subpoenas, Mr. Mueller has already provided the House of Representative with some very clear paths for investigation.  So even if the Mueller report simply gets tossed in a drawer in Mr. Barr’s desk for all eternity, there is already sufficient material out there to let the House exercise its newly rediscovered oversight responsibilities and get to the bottom of what happened between the Trump campaign and Russia during the 2016 election.  Remember, Richard Nixon was not indicted, and there was no commensurate special counsel report in the Watergate scandal. There doesn’t need to be one here to right wrongs so egregious they were apparently worth lying about. Caroline Fredrickson (@crfredrickson) is the president of the American Constitution Society and author of “Under the Bus: How Working Women Are Being Run Over” and the forthcoming “The Democracy Fix: How to Win the Fight for Fair Rules, Fair Courts and Fair Elections.” The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. An earlier version of this essay misstated the status of George Papadopoulos, a foreign policy adviser during Donald Trump's 2016 campaign. He served 12 days in prison for lying to the F.B.I. and was released; he is not currently behind bars.Supported by By Niraj Chokshi The political news cycle is fast, and keeping up can be overwhelming. Trying to find differing perspectives worth your time is even harder. That’s why we have scoured the internet for writing from across the political spectrum that you might not have seen. There is no shortage of opinions about the Mueller report, which was released on Thursday. Here’s a look at what the writers of opinion articles and editorials are saying should happen next, what they think the report proves and what they say it shows about the United States. It’s time for impeachment, some say. For these writers, the report by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, simply underscores the need for Congress to oust the president. What the report “shows, with crystal clarity, is that today there is a cancer in the presidency: President Donald J. Trump,” George Conway, a lawyer and husband to the White House counselor Kellyanne Conway, wrote in The Washington Post. Not to proceed with impeachment would be an “act of unparalleled moral cowardice” for Democrats, David Faris, a political science professor, wrote in The Week.  Yoni Appelbaum, an editor at The Atlantic, argued that Mr. Trump should welcome an impeachment proceeding, which would give him a chance to clear his name once and for all. But some have argued that such a move could backfire for Democrats. “Moving to impeach Trump now would only make him stronger,” Scott Martelle wrote in The Los Angeles Times.  Democrats should move on, conservatives say. These writers argued that the report shows that liberals have overstepped. “The Democrats’ ardent defense of the special prosecutor’s independence is now seen as bad faith,” wrote Daniel Henninger, deputy editor of The Wall Street Journal’s editorial page. Elizabeth Harrington, the national spokeswoman for the Republican National Committee, wrote in The Hill: “It is time for Democrats to accept reality.” “If they now reject his findings, they’ll be party to a process more damaging than anything Trump has done,” Abe Greenwald, the senior editor of Commentary, wrote in The New York Post. New York’s former mayor called for reforms. Writing for the publication he founded, Michael Bloomberg said impeachment is not necessary but argued that Congress should act on other matters raised by the report: “New legislation is needed to protect American campaigns and voting systems against future attacks.” The case for obstruction. The Mueller report punted on whether President Trump obstructed justice, but several commentators said it showed that he had. “I don’t know if his actions meet the legal standard of obstruction of justice, but they certainly meet the common-sense standard of interference with justice,” wrote David Brooks of The New York Times. Cass R. Sunstein, a former official in the Obama White House and a Harvard Law School professor, argued that Mr. Mueller likely concluded that “the evidence probably makes out a crime, but because the president cannot be indicted, and because there can’t be a trial, I’m not going to say so.” The case against the media.  Glenn Greenwald of the Intercept accused Democrats and news organizations of perpetrating a “hoax,” arguing that the report “simply did not establish any of the conspiracy theories that huge parts of the Democratic Party, the intelligence community and the U.S. media spent years encouraging the public to believe.”  David Harsanyi, a senior editor at The Federalist, agreed, arguing in The New York Post that journalists should “be focusing on exoneration rather than theorizing about obstruction.” The system works. A Washington Post columnist, David Ignatius, said that the Mueller report “affirmed that the fundamentals of accountability are still intact despite Trump’s best efforts to rig the system.” Verdicts on President Trump.  Jacob Sullum, a senior editor at the libertarian magazine Reason, argued that while there may be insufficient proof that Mr. Trump obstructed justice, there’s plenty of evidence of hubris: “Over and over again, he opened his mouth when he should have kept it shut, lied clumsily and transparently.”  “It is a deeply damning description of the president of the United States,” wrote Ezra Klein, co-founder of Vox. “What the report portrays, in numbing legalese and revealing footnotes, is a breathtaking culture of lying and impunity, distrust and double-dealing,” wrote Susan B. Glasser of The New Yorker. “Neither [Attorney General William] Barr nor Mueller’s report itself has answered a crucial question: Is Trump a threat to U.S. national security?” Seth Hettena, an investigative reporter, wrote in The Los Angeles Times. The judgment on Mueller. “He was the wrong man to provide an honest assessment of the 2016 collusion dirty trick,” argued Kimberley Strassel, a member of The Wall Street Journal’s editorial board. “And we’ve got a report to prove it.” Others argued that Mueller’s institutionalism kept him from going far enough: “By protecting the presidency, Mueller has hurt the country,” Paul Rosenzweig, a senior fellow at the R Street Institute and a principal at Red Branch Consulting, wrote in The Atlantic. What Barr got right — and wrong. Some accused Mr. Barr, who previewed the report in a news conference, of trying to steer the narrative, prioritizing the interests of President Trump over those of the American people. “His account was selective at best, and false at worse,” Nancy Gertner, a retired federal judge and a professor at Harvard Law School, wrote in The Boston Globe. Others defended Mr. Barr. In The Times, Christopher Buskirk, editor and publisher of the journal American Greatness, agreed with the attorney general’s suggestion that the president was frustrated by the Mueller investigation and felt that it was undermining his presidency. “He was right. And it was obvious in places like Arizona (where I live), but not in Washington or New York,” Mr. Buskirk said. Liam Stack contributed reporting. OpinionThe Editorial Board OpinionChristopher Buskirk OpinionCaroline Fredrickson

Supported by By Niraj Chokshi The political news cycle is fast, and keeping up can be overwhelming. Trying to find differing perspectives worth your time is even harder. That’s why we have scoured the internet for writing from across the political spectrum that you might not have seen. There is no shortage of opinions about the Mueller report, which was released on Thursday. Here’s a look at what the writers of opinion articles and editorials are saying should happen next, what they think the report proves and what they say it shows about the United States. It’s time for impeachment, some say. For these writers, the report by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, simply underscores the need for Congress to oust the president. What the report “shows, with crystal clarity, is that today there is a cancer in the presidency: President Donald J. Trump,” George Conway, a lawyer and husband to the White House counselor Kellyanne Conway, wrote in The Washington Post. Not to proceed with impeachment would be an “act of unparalleled moral cowardice” for Democrats, David Faris, a political science professor, wrote in The Week.  Yoni Appelbaum, an editor at The Atlantic, argued that Mr. Trump should welcome an impeachment proceeding, which would give him a chance to clear his name once and for all. But some have argued that such a move could backfire for Democrats. “Moving to impeach Trump now would only make him stronger,” Scott Martelle wrote in The Los Angeles Times.  Democrats should move on, conservatives say. These writers argued that the report shows that liberals have overstepped. “The Democrats’ ardent defense of the special prosecutor’s independence is now seen as bad faith,” wrote Daniel Henninger, deputy editor of The Wall Street Journal’s editorial page. Elizabeth Harrington, the national spokeswoman for the Republican National Committee, wrote in The Hill: “It is time for Democrats to accept reality.” “If they now reject his findings, they’ll be party to a process more damaging than anything Trump has done,” Abe Greenwald, the senior editor of Commentary, wrote in The New York Post. New York’s former mayor called for reforms. Writing for the publication he founded, Michael Bloomberg said impeachment is not necessary but argued that Congress should act on other matters raised by the report: “New legislation is needed to protect American campaigns and voting systems against future attacks.” The case for obstruction. The Mueller report punted on whether President Trump obstructed justice, but several commentators said it showed that he had. “I don’t know if his actions meet the legal standard of obstruction of justice, but they certainly meet the common-sense standard of interference with justice,” wrote David Brooks of The New York Times. Cass R. Sunstein, a former official in the Obama White House and a Harvard Law School professor, argued that Mr. Mueller likely concluded that “the evidence probably makes out a crime, but because the president cannot be indicted, and because there can’t be a trial, I’m not going to say so.” The case against the media.  Glenn Greenwald of the Intercept accused Democrats and news organizations of perpetrating a “hoax,” arguing that the report “simply did not establish any of the conspiracy theories that huge parts of the Democratic Party, the intelligence community and the U.S. media spent years encouraging the public to believe.”  David Harsanyi, a senior editor at The Federalist, agreed, arguing in The New York Post that journalists should “be focusing on exoneration rather than theorizing about obstruction.” The system works. A Washington Post columnist, David Ignatius, said that the Mueller report “affirmed that the fundamentals of accountability are still intact despite Trump’s best efforts to rig the system.” Verdicts on President Trump.  Jacob Sullum, a senior editor at the libertarian magazine Reason, argued that while there may be insufficient proof that Mr. Trump obstructed justice, there’s plenty of evidence of hubris: “Over and over again, he opened his mouth when he should have kept it shut, lied clumsily and transparently.”  “It is a deeply damning description of the president of the United States,” wrote Ezra Klein, co-founder of Vox. “What the report portrays, in numbing legalese and revealing footnotes, is a breathtaking culture of lying and impunity, distrust and double-dealing,” wrote Susan B. Glasser of The New Yorker. “Neither [Attorney General William] Barr nor Mueller’s report itself has answered a crucial question: Is Trump a threat to U.S. national security?” Seth Hettena, an investigative reporter, wrote in The Los Angeles Times. The judgment on Mueller. “He was the wrong man to provide an honest assessment of the 2016 collusion dirty trick,” argued Kimberley Strassel, a member of The Wall Street Journal’s editorial board. “And we’ve got a report to prove it.” Others argued that Mueller’s institutionalism kept him from going far enough: “By protecting the presidency, Mueller has hurt the country,” Paul Rosenzweig, a senior fellow at the R Street Institute and a principal at Red Branch Consulting, wrote in The Atlantic. What Barr got right — and wrong. Some accused Mr. Barr, who previewed the report in a news conference, of trying to steer the narrative, prioritizing the interests of President Trump over those of the American people. “His account was selective at best, and false at worse,” Nancy Gertner, a retired federal judge and a professor at Harvard Law School, wrote in The Boston Globe. Others defended Mr. Barr. In The Times, Christopher Buskirk, editor and publisher of the journal American Greatness, agreed with the attorney general’s suggestion that the president was frustrated by the Mueller investigation and felt that it was undermining his presidency. “He was right. And it was obvious in places like Arizona (where I live), but not in Washington or New York,” Mr. Buskirk said. Liam Stack contributed reporting. OpinionThe Editorial Board OpinionChristopher Buskirk OpinionCaroline FredricksonSupported by By Katie Benner WASHINGTON — The Justice Department defended Attorney General William P. Barr’s handling of the special counsel report on Thursday, saying that it had to be scrubbed of sensitive information, amid revelations that some members of the office have said he failed to adequately portray their findings and the extent to which they could damage President Trump. “Given the extraordinary public interest in the matter, the attorney general decided to release the report’s bottom-line findings and his conclusions immediately — without attempting to summarize the report — with the understanding that the report itself would be released after the redaction process,” a Justice Department spokeswoman, Kerri Kupec, said in a statement. At issue is a four-page letter that Mr. Barr wrote to lawmakers on March 24 outlining the main findings of the nearly two-year investigation by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III. Quoting sparingly from the nearly 400-page report delivered to him two days earlier, the attorney general revealed that Mr. Mueller had declined to decide whether the president illegally obstructed the inquiry and that Mr. Barr himself had stepped in to conclude that Mr. Trump did not commit an obstruction offense. [Some of the Mueller investigators said that the attorney general failed to adequately represent their findings.] Some of Mr. Mueller’s investigators have told associates in recent days that Mr. Barr could have released more of their own work, government officials and others familiar with their frustrations told The New York Times for an article published on Wednesday. Mr. Trump attacked the article, falsely asserting on Twitter that Times reporters relied on “no legitimate sources,” a longstanding tactic of his to try to dismiss news reports that portray him negatively. The letter, by Attorney General William P. Barr, details the main findings of the special counsel’s two-year investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election. Mr. Barr has told lawmakers that his letter was an update of his progress in reviewing the report and that the document was not intended to fulfill a requirement under Justice Department regulations that he send a summary to Congress at the end of any special counsel investigation. Though Ms. Kupec said Mr. Barr was not trying to summarize the report, she was referring only to the regulatory requirement for a summary. Ms. Kupec also said that the report and its release were subject to the regulations, which stipulate that Mr. Mueller prepare a confidential document of his findings intended only for the attorney general. She also said that sensitive information had to be blacked out first, noting that “every page of the ‘confidential report’” was marked with a warning that it may contain secret grand jury testimony. Mr. Barr and other law enforcement officials are also reviewing the document for classified material, information about continuing investigations and derogatory details about third parties not directly related to the inquiry. The attorney general has said he is aiming to send to lawmakers a redacted version of the report by mid-April. Under the regulations, he is free to release parts or all of it if he decides it is in the public interest. The special counsel’s report included summaries of the major findings, and some team members believed Mr. Barr should have included more of their material in his March 24 letter, according to the government officials. But the attorney general “does not believe the report should be released in a ‘serial or piecemeal fashion,’” Ms. Kupec said, citing a letter that Mr. Barr wrote to lawmakers on Friday. Justice Department officials have also said they determined that the summaries contained sensitive information that needed to be reviewed before they were released. Democrats have demanded full access to the report. The House Judiciary Committee voted on Wednesday to let its chairman, Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, use a subpoena to compel Mr. Barr to turn over a complete copy of the Mueller report and its underlying evidence. More than two years of criminal indictments and steady revelations about Trump campaign contacts with Russians reveal the scope of the special counsel investigation. Mr. Nadler said on Thursday that the reports about frustration among members of the special counsel team would not alter his plan to give Mr. Barr a bit more time to hand over the report voluntarily before issuing a subpoena. “It is his duty to release the entire report,” Mr. Nadler said of Mr. Barr. “We were demanding he do so and he hasn’t done so.” But given the frustrations expressed by some of Mr. Mueller’s investigators, Mr. Nadler asked Mr. Barr in a letter on Thursday to turn over all communications between the special counsel’s office and other Justice Department officials about the report, including discussions about the disclosure of the report to Congress or the public and about Mr. Barr’s March 24 letter. Mr. Nadler also said that Mr. Barr had undermined his own desire to release the report all at once when he outlined the principal conclusions “in a fashion that appears to minimize the implications of the report as to the president.” And Senator Mark Warner of Virginia, the top Democrat on the Senate Intelligence Committee, said on Thursday that he would ask the Senate to pass a resolution calling for the Justice Department to provide transparency on the results of the special counsel’s work. But Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina and the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, has taken a far different tack. He told reporters on Thursday that he had no interest in “retrying” the Mueller investigation and trusted Mr. Barr to fairly present its findings. “I don’t think Barr misrepresented the Mueller conclusions,” Mr. Graham said. “I don’t have any interest in taking all the work product and re-litigating it. That’s enough for me.” Nicholas Fandos contributed reporting. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.   

Supported by By Katie Benner WASHINGTON — The Justice Department defended Attorney General William P. Barr’s handling of the special counsel report on Thursday, saying that it had to be scrubbed of sensitive information, amid revelations that some members of the office have said he failed to adequately portray their findings and the extent to which they could damage President Trump. “Given the extraordinary public interest in the matter, the attorney general decided to release the report’s bottom-line findings and his conclusions immediately — without attempting to summarize the report — with the understanding that the report itself would be released after the redaction process,” a Justice Department spokeswoman, Kerri Kupec, said in a statement. At issue is a four-page letter that Mr. Barr wrote to lawmakers on March 24 outlining the main findings of the nearly two-year investigation by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III. Quoting sparingly from the nearly 400-page report delivered to him two days earlier, the attorney general revealed that Mr. Mueller had declined to decide whether the president illegally obstructed the inquiry and that Mr. Barr himself had stepped in to conclude that Mr. Trump did not commit an obstruction offense. [Some of the Mueller investigators said that the attorney general failed to adequately represent their findings.] Some of Mr. Mueller’s investigators have told associates in recent days that Mr. Barr could have released more of their own work, government officials and others familiar with their frustrations told The New York Times for an article published on Wednesday. Mr. Trump attacked the article, falsely asserting on Twitter that Times reporters relied on “no legitimate sources,” a longstanding tactic of his to try to dismiss news reports that portray him negatively. The letter, by Attorney General William P. Barr, details the main findings of the special counsel’s two-year investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election. Mr. Barr has told lawmakers that his letter was an update of his progress in reviewing the report and that the document was not intended to fulfill a requirement under Justice Department regulations that he send a summary to Congress at the end of any special counsel investigation. Though Ms. Kupec said Mr. Barr was not trying to summarize the report, she was referring only to the regulatory requirement for a summary. Ms. Kupec also said that the report and its release were subject to the regulations, which stipulate that Mr. Mueller prepare a confidential document of his findings intended only for the attorney general. She also said that sensitive information had to be blacked out first, noting that “every page of the ‘confidential report’” was marked with a warning that it may contain secret grand jury testimony. Mr. Barr and other law enforcement officials are also reviewing the document for classified material, information about continuing investigations and derogatory details about third parties not directly related to the inquiry. The attorney general has said he is aiming to send to lawmakers a redacted version of the report by mid-April. Under the regulations, he is free to release parts or all of it if he decides it is in the public interest. The special counsel’s report included summaries of the major findings, and some team members believed Mr. Barr should have included more of their material in his March 24 letter, according to the government officials. But the attorney general “does not believe the report should be released in a ‘serial or piecemeal fashion,’” Ms. Kupec said, citing a letter that Mr. Barr wrote to lawmakers on Friday. Justice Department officials have also said they determined that the summaries contained sensitive information that needed to be reviewed before they were released. Democrats have demanded full access to the report. The House Judiciary Committee voted on Wednesday to let its chairman, Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, use a subpoena to compel Mr. Barr to turn over a complete copy of the Mueller report and its underlying evidence. More than two years of criminal indictments and steady revelations about Trump campaign contacts with Russians reveal the scope of the special counsel investigation. Mr. Nadler said on Thursday that the reports about frustration among members of the special counsel team would not alter his plan to give Mr. Barr a bit more time to hand over the report voluntarily before issuing a subpoena. “It is his duty to release the entire report,” Mr. Nadler said of Mr. Barr. “We were demanding he do so and he hasn’t done so.” But given the frustrations expressed by some of Mr. Mueller’s investigators, Mr. Nadler asked Mr. Barr in a letter on Thursday to turn over all communications between the special counsel’s office and other Justice Department officials about the report, including discussions about the disclosure of the report to Congress or the public and about Mr. Barr’s March 24 letter. Mr. Nadler also said that Mr. Barr had undermined his own desire to release the report all at once when he outlined the principal conclusions “in a fashion that appears to minimize the implications of the report as to the president.” And Senator Mark Warner of Virginia, the top Democrat on the Senate Intelligence Committee, said on Thursday that he would ask the Senate to pass a resolution calling for the Justice Department to provide transparency on the results of the special counsel’s work. But Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina and the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, has taken a far different tack. He told reporters on Thursday that he had no interest in “retrying” the Mueller investigation and trusted Mr. Barr to fairly present its findings. “I don’t think Barr misrepresented the Mueller conclusions,” Mr. Graham said. “I don’t have any interest in taking all the work product and re-litigating it. That’s enough for me.” Nicholas Fandos contributed reporting. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.   Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — It may be special counsel Robert Mueller's Russia investigation report , but the spotlight Thursday belonged just as much to the attorney general who made it public. The report had not yet been released when William Barr, by turns testy and defensive, took the Justice Department podium to face questions about the now-concluded probe. He was there not only to detail the main conclusions of Mueller's investigation but also to explain his handling of the report following a reputation-bruising month that has fueled skepticism from Democrats about whether the attorney general is functioning as a Donald Trump loyalist. "It seems puzzling for someone with a long career at the department," said Arun Rao, a former federal prosecutor in Maryland who served under Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein. "Particularly today, his behavior seems to be more of an advocate for a client rather than representing the department." At his press conference, Barr stressed about a half-dozen times that Mueller did not find evidence of collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia, a point Trump has seized on to try to claim vindication. He acknowledged that Mueller closely scrutinized the president for obstruction of justice but said he and Rosenstein disagreed with some of Mueller's legal theories. He also praised the White House's cooperation with the investigation and appeared to justify the president's anger over it, saying Trump "faced an unprecedented situation" and people must bear in mind the context. "(T)here is substantial evidence to show that the president was frustrated and angered by a sincere belief that the investigation was undermining his presidency, propelled by his political opponents and fueled by illegal leaks," Barr said. He gave a terse "no" when asked by a reporter if he was concerned that it might be improper to hold a news conference before the report was public. He brushed off questions about whether he was protecting the president, saying he wasn't sure what the basis was to say he was being generous to Trump. A Justice Department official familiar with Barr's thinking said Barr simply wanted to confront head-on questions that he knew were lingering, including about the redaction process and interactions about the report between the Justice Department and the White House. The person, who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss internal discussions, said Barr was following through on his commitment at his January confirmation hearing to be as transparent as possible by releasing a lightly redacted version of the Mueller report even though the regulations don't require any such disclosure. Skepticism of Barr's approach to Mueller's investigation mounted last month when he condensed the 448-page report into a four-page summary letter that Democrats said glossed over the special counsel's more damning evidence against Trump. Last week, he echoed Trump's own rhetoric by saying he believed his presidential campaign had been spied on and that he would investigate the origins of the investigation into potential collusion between Russia and the Trump campaign. His press conference on Thursday was held without Mueller or members of his team and, critics charged, enabled Barr to place his own spin on the report's main findings before the American public even got a chance to see the document. Those actions have escalated partisan anxiety about Barr's trustworthiness and taken a toll on the standing of a Justice Department veteran who won over some skeptical Democrats with a smooth confirmation hearing at which he pledged independence and transparency. Congressional Democrats have demanded to hear from Mueller himself, with House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer citing a disconnect Thursday between Mueller's obstruction findings and the way Barr portrayed them. Timothy Flanigan, a former Justice Department colleague of Barr's, said the attorney general's summary of Mueller's report accurately reflected his findings. "This is not a major hit to Bill Barr's reputation," Flanigan said. Barr signaled his own skepticism of the investigation even before he took office with an unsolicited memo to the Justice Department last year in which he criticized Mueller's obstruction inquiry. But his appointment nonetheless won bipartisan support, especially coming after the president's selection of Matthew Whitaker, the acting attorney general who was attacked by Democrats as an unqualified Trump insider. At his confirmation hearing, Barr broke from some Trump talking points and defended Mueller as a longtime friend who'd never involve himself in a "witch hunt" like the president has maintained. But his tone toward the investigation shifted in recent weeks as he learned more about Mueller's findings. He raised eyebrows at a congressional hearing last week when he said he believed the president's campaign had been spied on, likely a reference to a secret surveillance warrant the FBI obtained to monitor the communications of a former Trump campaign associate. The person familiar with his thinking said Barr, who early in his career worked for the CIA, did not mean the word in a pejorative sense and was referring to intelligence collection activities. He also changed his take on the "witch hunt" question, saying it was all a matter of perspective and that someone who feels falsely accused of something would inevitably dislike the investigation. Frank Montoya, a former FBI supervisor, said he had given Barr the benefit of the doubt but was concerned by the ways in which Barr's thinking appeared to align with Trump's. "He can't not know that we're in highly partisan times," Montoya said of Barr. "To throw fuel on the fire the way that he does, all that it does is reinforce the idea that Trump is right." ____ ___ For complete coverage of the Mueller report, go to https://www.apnews.com/TrumpInvestigations

Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — It may be special counsel Robert Mueller's Russia investigation report , but the spotlight Thursday belonged just as much to the attorney general who made it public. The report had not yet been released when William Barr, by turns testy and defensive, took the Justice Department podium to face questions about the now-concluded probe. He was there not only to detail the main conclusions of Mueller's investigation but also to explain his handling of the report following a reputation-bruising month that has fueled skepticism from Democrats about whether the attorney general is functioning as a Donald Trump loyalist. "It seems puzzling for someone with a long career at the department," said Arun Rao, a former federal prosecutor in Maryland who served under Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein. "Particularly today, his behavior seems to be more of an advocate for a client rather than representing the department." At his press conference, Barr stressed about a half-dozen times that Mueller did not find evidence of collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia, a point Trump has seized on to try to claim vindication. He acknowledged that Mueller closely scrutinized the president for obstruction of justice but said he and Rosenstein disagreed with some of Mueller's legal theories. He also praised the White House's cooperation with the investigation and appeared to justify the president's anger over it, saying Trump "faced an unprecedented situation" and people must bear in mind the context. "(T)here is substantial evidence to show that the president was frustrated and angered by a sincere belief that the investigation was undermining his presidency, propelled by his political opponents and fueled by illegal leaks," Barr said. He gave a terse "no" when asked by a reporter if he was concerned that it might be improper to hold a news conference before the report was public. He brushed off questions about whether he was protecting the president, saying he wasn't sure what the basis was to say he was being generous to Trump. A Justice Department official familiar with Barr's thinking said Barr simply wanted to confront head-on questions that he knew were lingering, including about the redaction process and interactions about the report between the Justice Department and the White House. The person, who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss internal discussions, said Barr was following through on his commitment at his January confirmation hearing to be as transparent as possible by releasing a lightly redacted version of the Mueller report even though the regulations don't require any such disclosure. Skepticism of Barr's approach to Mueller's investigation mounted last month when he condensed the 448-page report into a four-page summary letter that Democrats said glossed over the special counsel's more damning evidence against Trump. Last week, he echoed Trump's own rhetoric by saying he believed his presidential campaign had been spied on and that he would investigate the origins of the investigation into potential collusion between Russia and the Trump campaign. His press conference on Thursday was held without Mueller or members of his team and, critics charged, enabled Barr to place his own spin on the report's main findings before the American public even got a chance to see the document. Those actions have escalated partisan anxiety about Barr's trustworthiness and taken a toll on the standing of a Justice Department veteran who won over some skeptical Democrats with a smooth confirmation hearing at which he pledged independence and transparency. Congressional Democrats have demanded to hear from Mueller himself, with House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer citing a disconnect Thursday between Mueller's obstruction findings and the way Barr portrayed them. Timothy Flanigan, a former Justice Department colleague of Barr's, said the attorney general's summary of Mueller's report accurately reflected his findings. "This is not a major hit to Bill Barr's reputation," Flanigan said. Barr signaled his own skepticism of the investigation even before he took office with an unsolicited memo to the Justice Department last year in which he criticized Mueller's obstruction inquiry. But his appointment nonetheless won bipartisan support, especially coming after the president's selection of Matthew Whitaker, the acting attorney general who was attacked by Democrats as an unqualified Trump insider. At his confirmation hearing, Barr broke from some Trump talking points and defended Mueller as a longtime friend who'd never involve himself in a "witch hunt" like the president has maintained. But his tone toward the investigation shifted in recent weeks as he learned more about Mueller's findings. He raised eyebrows at a congressional hearing last week when he said he believed the president's campaign had been spied on, likely a reference to a secret surveillance warrant the FBI obtained to monitor the communications of a former Trump campaign associate. The person familiar with his thinking said Barr, who early in his career worked for the CIA, did not mean the word in a pejorative sense and was referring to intelligence collection activities. He also changed his take on the "witch hunt" question, saying it was all a matter of perspective and that someone who feels falsely accused of something would inevitably dislike the investigation. Frank Montoya, a former FBI supervisor, said he had given Barr the benefit of the doubt but was concerned by the ways in which Barr's thinking appeared to align with Trump's. "He can't not know that we're in highly partisan times," Montoya said of Barr. "To throw fuel on the fire the way that he does, all that it does is reinforce the idea that Trump is right." ____ ___ For complete coverage of the Mueller report, go to https://www.apnews.com/TrumpInvestigationsSupported by The missing piece of the report is a counterintelligence investigation that should set off alarm bells about our democracy and security.  By Joshua A. Geltzer and Ryan Goodman Mr. Geltzer is the executive director of the Institute for Constitutional Advocacy and Protection at Georgetown Law. Mr. Goodman is editor in chief of the blog Just Security. The Mueller report isn’t actually close to a full account of the investigation by the special counsel, Robert Mueller. That’s not just because of the redactions. When he was hired, Mr. Mueller inherited supervision of an F.B.I. counterintelligence investigation. That is the missing piece of the Mueller report. President Trump may claim “exoneration” on a narrowly defined criminal coordination charge. But a counterintelligence investigation can yield something even more important: an intelligence assessment of how likely it is that someone — in this case, the president — is acting, wittingly or unwittingly, under the influence of or in collaboration with a foreign power. Was Donald Trump a knowing or unknowing Russian asset, used in some capacity to undermine our democracy and national security? The public Mueller report alone provides enough evidence to worry that America’s own national security interests may not be guiding American foreign policy. The counterintelligence investigation is not necessarily complete, but from the glimpses we see in the Mueller report, it should set off very serious national security alarm bells. An intelligence assessment makes two determinations: a conclusion about the type of influence a foreign power may have over an individual and the degree of confidence in that conclusion. For example, when Mr. Trump boasted to the Russian foreign minister and ambassador in the Oval Office that he had fired the F.B.I. director, it raised only the possibility — a “circumstantial inference,” as it’s called in counterintelligence — that the president was wittingly working on behalf of the Russians.  This apparent desire to please these officials indicates a high level of Russian influence and, in the context of other actions that pleased Mr. Putin, like his sudden decision to withdraw American troops from Syria — could support a modest to high level of confidence in that conclusion. But reaching very high confidence that Mr. Trump is wittingly doing Moscow’s bidding would require something we don't have and would not expect to have, like an email from Vladimir Putin ordering Mr. Trump to fire the F.B.I. director James Comey. Similarly, there is no "smoking gun" order in the incidents below. They indicate a strong influence by the Russians, but only low to moderate confidence that he acted at Russia’s behest. There’s simply no clear sign that Mr. Trump was following directions of acting under pressure from the Kremlin.  The former Trump adviser Roger Stone directly communicates with the Russia-linked actor Guccifer 2.0 and coordinates with WikiLeaks to get Mr. Trump elected — and he is likely aware that one is a Russian front organization and the other is working with the Russians. A Trump campaign national security adviser is informed by a Russian intelligence operative that the Kremlin has stolen Hillary Clinton-related emails and could assist the Trump campaign through “anonymous release” of derogatory information; the campaign then works on setting up backdoor meetings with senior Russian government officials (though the meetings do not materialize). Members of the Trump transition team conduct secretive, back channel meetings with Putin operatives. Mr. Trump and Mr. Putin speak alone in Helsinki, then Mr. Trump accepts Mr. Putin’s claim that he didn’t meddle in the 2016 election and repudiates the intelligence community’s assessments to the contrary. Those incidents raise the possibility that Mr. Trump has wittingly sought to advance Russian interests, but the evidence is merely circumstantial and consequently suggests low to moderate confidence in that assessment. In many but not all respects, witting assets can be more dangerous because they have deliberately entered into some sort of understanding or agreement to work on behalf of the foreign power’s interests.  But unwitting assets pose their own dangers. They have significant vulnerabilities that can be exploited with minimal actual coordination. In other words, they look and act more like puppets. In the following examples, Mr. Trump appears a potentially unwitting but responsive asset for Moscow, a finding in which there seems greater confidence: Mr. Trump’s national security adviser Michael Flynn reassures Russia that United States sanctions for election interference will be reversed, then lies about his conversation to the F.B.I. Mr. Trump publicly applauds Mr. Putin’s lack of retaliation for the sanctions. Mr. Trump pursues a potentially lucrative Trump Tower Moscow project through the end of the campaign and at least implicitly encourages his lawyer to lie to Congress about the timing of the deal. The stark reality is that one might have a moderate to high confidence that decisions are being made by an American president who, in the process of getting elected and after assuming office, has acted with the interests of an often-hostile foreign power influencing him. And that conclusion is deeply worrisome as a national security matter. A failure by political leaders to condemn the activities of a Trump campaign that openly welcomed Russian hacking and privately encouraged timely releases of damaging information about the campaign’s opponent would put our nation at further risk. As president, Mr. Trump has taken a series of steps at home and abroad that advance Russian policy interests. At home, he has weakened American democracy, all but paralyzed our ability to act through legislation and vilified key institutions — particularly law enforcement and the intelligence community. Abroad, Mr. Trump has weakened NATO, given Russia an increasingly free hand in Syria, minimized sanctions against Russian actors, questioned America’s commitment to protecting Eastern Europe from Russian aggression and defended Mr. Putin on the world stage. It’s hard to look toward the 2020 election with anything but concern — we have not come far enough to protect the democratic process from the threat of foreign election interference, and one reason may well be that the man in the Oval Office has been compromised and continues to be influenced, wittingly or otherwise, by a Kremlin eager to see the United States remain vulnerable. Joshua A. Geltzer, the executive director of the Institute for Constitutional Advocacy and Protection at Georgetown Law, was the senior director for counterterrorism at the National Security Council from 2015 to 2017. Ryan Goodman is a professor of law at New York University and editor in chief of the blog Just Security. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported by The missing piece of the report is a counterintelligence investigation that should set off alarm bells about our democracy and security.  By Joshua A. Geltzer and Ryan Goodman Mr. Geltzer is the executive director of the Institute for Constitutional Advocacy and Protection at Georgetown Law. Mr. Goodman is editor in chief of the blog Just Security. The Mueller report isn’t actually close to a full account of the investigation by the special counsel, Robert Mueller. That’s not just because of the redactions. When he was hired, Mr. Mueller inherited supervision of an F.B.I. counterintelligence investigation. That is the missing piece of the Mueller report. President Trump may claim “exoneration” on a narrowly defined criminal coordination charge. But a counterintelligence investigation can yield something even more important: an intelligence assessment of how likely it is that someone — in this case, the president — is acting, wittingly or unwittingly, under the influence of or in collaboration with a foreign power. Was Donald Trump a knowing or unknowing Russian asset, used in some capacity to undermine our democracy and national security? The public Mueller report alone provides enough evidence to worry that America’s own national security interests may not be guiding American foreign policy. The counterintelligence investigation is not necessarily complete, but from the glimpses we see in the Mueller report, it should set off very serious national security alarm bells. An intelligence assessment makes two determinations: a conclusion about the type of influence a foreign power may have over an individual and the degree of confidence in that conclusion. For example, when Mr. Trump boasted to the Russian foreign minister and ambassador in the Oval Office that he had fired the F.B.I. director, it raised only the possibility — a “circumstantial inference,” as it’s called in counterintelligence — that the president was wittingly working on behalf of the Russians.  This apparent desire to please these officials indicates a high level of Russian influence and, in the context of other actions that pleased Mr. Putin, like his sudden decision to withdraw American troops from Syria — could support a modest to high level of confidence in that conclusion. But reaching very high confidence that Mr. Trump is wittingly doing Moscow’s bidding would require something we don't have and would not expect to have, like an email from Vladimir Putin ordering Mr. Trump to fire the F.B.I. director James Comey. Similarly, there is no "smoking gun" order in the incidents below. They indicate a strong influence by the Russians, but only low to moderate confidence that he acted at Russia’s behest. There’s simply no clear sign that Mr. Trump was following directions of acting under pressure from the Kremlin.  The former Trump adviser Roger Stone directly communicates with the Russia-linked actor Guccifer 2.0 and coordinates with WikiLeaks to get Mr. Trump elected — and he is likely aware that one is a Russian front organization and the other is working with the Russians. A Trump campaign national security adviser is informed by a Russian intelligence operative that the Kremlin has stolen Hillary Clinton-related emails and could assist the Trump campaign through “anonymous release” of derogatory information; the campaign then works on setting up backdoor meetings with senior Russian government officials (though the meetings do not materialize). Members of the Trump transition team conduct secretive, back channel meetings with Putin operatives. Mr. Trump and Mr. Putin speak alone in Helsinki, then Mr. Trump accepts Mr. Putin’s claim that he didn’t meddle in the 2016 election and repudiates the intelligence community’s assessments to the contrary. Those incidents raise the possibility that Mr. Trump has wittingly sought to advance Russian interests, but the evidence is merely circumstantial and consequently suggests low to moderate confidence in that assessment. In many but not all respects, witting assets can be more dangerous because they have deliberately entered into some sort of understanding or agreement to work on behalf of the foreign power’s interests.  But unwitting assets pose their own dangers. They have significant vulnerabilities that can be exploited with minimal actual coordination. In other words, they look and act more like puppets. In the following examples, Mr. Trump appears a potentially unwitting but responsive asset for Moscow, a finding in which there seems greater confidence: Mr. Trump’s national security adviser Michael Flynn reassures Russia that United States sanctions for election interference will be reversed, then lies about his conversation to the F.B.I. Mr. Trump publicly applauds Mr. Putin’s lack of retaliation for the sanctions. Mr. Trump pursues a potentially lucrative Trump Tower Moscow project through the end of the campaign and at least implicitly encourages his lawyer to lie to Congress about the timing of the deal. The stark reality is that one might have a moderate to high confidence that decisions are being made by an American president who, in the process of getting elected and after assuming office, has acted with the interests of an often-hostile foreign power influencing him. And that conclusion is deeply worrisome as a national security matter. A failure by political leaders to condemn the activities of a Trump campaign that openly welcomed Russian hacking and privately encouraged timely releases of damaging information about the campaign’s opponent would put our nation at further risk. As president, Mr. Trump has taken a series of steps at home and abroad that advance Russian policy interests. At home, he has weakened American democracy, all but paralyzed our ability to act through legislation and vilified key institutions — particularly law enforcement and the intelligence community. Abroad, Mr. Trump has weakened NATO, given Russia an increasingly free hand in Syria, minimized sanctions against Russian actors, questioned America’s commitment to protecting Eastern Europe from Russian aggression and defended Mr. Putin on the world stage. It’s hard to look toward the 2020 election with anything but concern — we have not come far enough to protect the democratic process from the threat of foreign election interference, and one reason may well be that the man in the Oval Office has been compromised and continues to be influenced, wittingly or otherwise, by a Kremlin eager to see the United States remain vulnerable. Joshua A. Geltzer, the executive director of the Institute for Constitutional Advocacy and Protection at Georgetown Law, was the senior director for counterterrorism at the National Security Council from 2015 to 2017. Ryan Goodman is a professor of law at New York University and editor in chief of the blog Just Security. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Supported by Times Insider If some of the revelations in Robert S. Mueller III’s redacted report sound familiar, it’s because many of them were previously published by The New York Times and other news outlets. By Anna Dubenko Times Insider explains who we are and what we do, and delivers behind-the-scenes insights into how our journalism comes together. President Trump has spent the last two years denouncing the “fake news” media, and yet some of the key moments in Robert S. Mueller III’s report were uncovered or bolstered through journalists’ investigative scrutiny. Moreover, in seeking to find out whether the president had obstructed justice, Mr. Mueller and his team looked to the administration’s public and private responses to reports in the media. The Mueller report cites work from The New York Times, The Washington Post, CNN and other news outlets dozens of times. Some of the stories published over the past two years were important turning points for the investigation. The report also reveals moments when the president and his aides rebutted stories they knew were true. Televised interviews figure prominently in the report as well. The president’s now-famous sit-down with Lester Holt on “NBC Nightly News” and Rudolph Giuliani’s discussions of pardons for Paul Manafort on CNN were crucial viewing for the Mueller investigative team. The report reveals a lot we didn’t know about how the president and his aides responded to overtures from Russia and how they attempted to thwart investigations. But many of the bombshells in the document were first reported by the press. Below, we’ve rounded up a selection of stories from The New York Times and The Washington Post that shaped this investigation. The Washington Post By David Ignatius Where it shows up: Vol. 2, Page 29  Key quote from the report: “On January 12, 2017, a Washington Post columnist reported that Flynn and Kislyak communicated on the day the Obama Administration announced the Russia sanctions. The column questioned whether Flynn had said something to ‘undercut the U.S. sanctions’ and whether Flynn’s communications had violated the letter or spirit of the Logan Act.”  Why it’s important: One of the origin points of the investigation can be found in David Ignatius’s column, which revealed that Michael T. Flynn, Mr. Trump’s choice to serve as national security adviser, had talked to Russian officials during the transition period about possibly lifting sanctions once the Trump administration was in place. The piece set off a string of high-profile denials from the White House, causing alarm among Justice Department officials since they knew Mr. Flynn’s statements to be untrue. Mr. Flynn resigned the following month. The New York Times By Peter Baker, Michael S. Schmidt and Maggie Haberman  Where it shows up: Vol. 2, Pages 93-94 Key quote from the report: “Hicks, who was present for the interview, recalled trying to ‘throw [herself] between the reporters and [the President]’ to stop parts of the interview, but the President ‘loved the interview.’”  Why it’s important: Mr. Mueller’s team never got Mr. Trump to sit down for a formal interview. Instead, the president submitted written responses, vetted by his lawyers, to questions from the special counsel. In July 2017, however, Mr. Trump spoke to these three reporters from The New York Times. The Mueller report seizes upon the president’s remarks to The Times about Attorney General Jeff Sessions and his efforts to get Mr. Sessions to withdraw his recusal and reassert control over the Russia inquiry. The Washington Post By Devlin Barrett, Adam Entous, Ellen Nakashima and Sari Horwitz  Where it shows up: Vol. 2, Pages 84-85  Key quote from the report: “On the evening of June 14, 2017, the Washington Post published an article stating that the Special Counsel was investigating whether the President had attempted to obstruct justice. [...] On Saturday, June 17, 2017, the President called McGahn and directed him to have the Special Counsel removed.”  Why it’s important: The Washington Post’s reporting that the special counsel’s investigation had expanded into questions of obstruction seemed to have agitated the president. Only two days after The Post’s publication of its story, Mr. Trump called his White House counsel, Donald F. McGahn II, at home from Camp David, directing him to fire the special counsel. The New York Times By Michael S. Schmidt and Maggie Haberman  Where it shows up: Vol. 2, Pages 113-116  Key quote from the report: “The President began the Oval Office meeting by telling McGahn that the New York Times story did not ‘look good’ and McGahn needed to correct it. McGahn recalled the President said, ‘I never said to fire Mueller. I never said “fire.” This story doesn’t look good. You need to correct this. You’re the White House counsel.’”  Why it’s important: In January 2018, The New York Times reported that Mr. McGahn had threatened to quit after the president asked him to fire the special counsel. The fallout and the president’s reaction to the story are integral to the special counsel’s review of whether Mr. Trump obstructed justice. The Washington Post By Rosalind S. Helderman and Josh Dawsey  Where it shows up: Vol. 2, Page 114  Key quote from the report: “The next day, the Washington Post reported on the same event but added that McGahn had not told the President directly that he intended to resign rather than carry out the directive to have the Special Counsel terminated. In that respect, the Post story clarified the Times story, which could be read to suggest that McGahn had told the President of his intention to quit, causing the President to back down from the order to have the Special Counsel fired.”  Why it’s important: The Washington Post built on The Times’s reporting about Mr. McGahn’s refusal to fire Mr. Mueller. The New York Times By Michael S. Schmidt  Where it shows up: Vol. 2, Page 35 Key quote from the report: “After Comey’s account of the dinner became public, the President and his advisors disputed that he had asked for Comey’s loyalty. The President also indicated that he had not invited Comey to dinner, telling a reporter that he thought Comey had ‘asked for the dinner’ because ‘he wanted to stay on.’ But substantial evidence corroborates Comey’s account of the dinner invitation and the request for loyalty. The President’s Daily Diary confirms that the President ‘extend[ed] a dinner invitation’ to Comey on January 27.”  Why it’s important: We now know that James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director, wanted to make sure that his contemporaneous memorandum about his dinner with the president made it into the hands of the press. In May 2017, The Times revealed Mr. Comey’s account of this meeting, detailing the president’s insistence that he pledge his loyalty. The report makes clear that, despite the administration’s denials, The Times’s reporting on this meeting is accurate. Follow the @ReaderCenter on Twitter for more coverage highlighting your perspectives and experiences and for insight into how we work. Anna Dubenko is an editor for off platform strategy. She was previously the editorial director at Digg and an editor at The Huffington Post.  @annadubenko 

Supported by Times Insider If some of the revelations in Robert S. Mueller III’s redacted report sound familiar, it’s because many of them were previously published by The New York Times and other news outlets. By Anna Dubenko Times Insider explains who we are and what we do, and delivers behind-the-scenes insights into how our journalism comes together. President Trump has spent the last two years denouncing the “fake news” media, and yet some of the key moments in Robert S. Mueller III’s report were uncovered or bolstered through journalists’ investigative scrutiny. Moreover, in seeking to find out whether the president had obstructed justice, Mr. Mueller and his team looked to the administration’s public and private responses to reports in the media. The Mueller report cites work from The New York Times, The Washington Post, CNN and other news outlets dozens of times. Some of the stories published over the past two years were important turning points for the investigation. The report also reveals moments when the president and his aides rebutted stories they knew were true. Televised interviews figure prominently in the report as well. The president’s now-famous sit-down with Lester Holt on “NBC Nightly News” and Rudolph Giuliani’s discussions of pardons for Paul Manafort on CNN were crucial viewing for the Mueller investigative team. The report reveals a lot we didn’t know about how the president and his aides responded to overtures from Russia and how they attempted to thwart investigations. But many of the bombshells in the document were first reported by the press. Below, we’ve rounded up a selection of stories from The New York Times and The Washington Post that shaped this investigation. The Washington Post By David Ignatius Where it shows up: Vol. 2, Page 29  Key quote from the report: “On January 12, 2017, a Washington Post columnist reported that Flynn and Kislyak communicated on the day the Obama Administration announced the Russia sanctions. The column questioned whether Flynn had said something to ‘undercut the U.S. sanctions’ and whether Flynn’s communications had violated the letter or spirit of the Logan Act.”  Why it’s important: One of the origin points of the investigation can be found in David Ignatius’s column, which revealed that Michael T. Flynn, Mr. Trump’s choice to serve as national security adviser, had talked to Russian officials during the transition period about possibly lifting sanctions once the Trump administration was in place. The piece set off a string of high-profile denials from the White House, causing alarm among Justice Department officials since they knew Mr. Flynn’s statements to be untrue. Mr. Flynn resigned the following month. The New York Times By Peter Baker, Michael S. Schmidt and Maggie Haberman  Where it shows up: Vol. 2, Pages 93-94 Key quote from the report: “Hicks, who was present for the interview, recalled trying to ‘throw [herself] between the reporters and [the President]’ to stop parts of the interview, but the President ‘loved the interview.’”  Why it’s important: Mr. Mueller’s team never got Mr. Trump to sit down for a formal interview. Instead, the president submitted written responses, vetted by his lawyers, to questions from the special counsel. In July 2017, however, Mr. Trump spoke to these three reporters from The New York Times. The Mueller report seizes upon the president’s remarks to The Times about Attorney General Jeff Sessions and his efforts to get Mr. Sessions to withdraw his recusal and reassert control over the Russia inquiry. The Washington Post By Devlin Barrett, Adam Entous, Ellen Nakashima and Sari Horwitz  Where it shows up: Vol. 2, Pages 84-85  Key quote from the report: “On the evening of June 14, 2017, the Washington Post published an article stating that the Special Counsel was investigating whether the President had attempted to obstruct justice. [...] On Saturday, June 17, 2017, the President called McGahn and directed him to have the Special Counsel removed.”  Why it’s important: The Washington Post’s reporting that the special counsel’s investigation had expanded into questions of obstruction seemed to have agitated the president. Only two days after The Post’s publication of its story, Mr. Trump called his White House counsel, Donald F. McGahn II, at home from Camp David, directing him to fire the special counsel. The New York Times By Michael S. Schmidt and Maggie Haberman  Where it shows up: Vol. 2, Pages 113-116  Key quote from the report: “The President began the Oval Office meeting by telling McGahn that the New York Times story did not ‘look good’ and McGahn needed to correct it. McGahn recalled the President said, ‘I never said to fire Mueller. I never said “fire.” This story doesn’t look good. You need to correct this. You’re the White House counsel.’”  Why it’s important: In January 2018, The New York Times reported that Mr. McGahn had threatened to quit after the president asked him to fire the special counsel. The fallout and the president’s reaction to the story are integral to the special counsel’s review of whether Mr. Trump obstructed justice. The Washington Post By Rosalind S. Helderman and Josh Dawsey  Where it shows up: Vol. 2, Page 114  Key quote from the report: “The next day, the Washington Post reported on the same event but added that McGahn had not told the President directly that he intended to resign rather than carry out the directive to have the Special Counsel terminated. In that respect, the Post story clarified the Times story, which could be read to suggest that McGahn had told the President of his intention to quit, causing the President to back down from the order to have the Special Counsel fired.”  Why it’s important: The Washington Post built on The Times’s reporting about Mr. McGahn’s refusal to fire Mr. Mueller. The New York Times By Michael S. Schmidt  Where it shows up: Vol. 2, Page 35 Key quote from the report: “After Comey’s account of the dinner became public, the President and his advisors disputed that he had asked for Comey’s loyalty. The President also indicated that he had not invited Comey to dinner, telling a reporter that he thought Comey had ‘asked for the dinner’ because ‘he wanted to stay on.’ But substantial evidence corroborates Comey’s account of the dinner invitation and the request for loyalty. The President’s Daily Diary confirms that the President ‘extend[ed] a dinner invitation’ to Comey on January 27.”  Why it’s important: We now know that James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director, wanted to make sure that his contemporaneous memorandum about his dinner with the president made it into the hands of the press. In May 2017, The Times revealed Mr. Comey’s account of this meeting, detailing the president’s insistence that he pledge his loyalty. The report makes clear that, despite the administration’s denials, The Times’s reporting on this meeting is accurate. Follow the @ReaderCenter on Twitter for more coverage highlighting your perspectives and experiences and for insight into how we work. Anna Dubenko is an editor for off platform strategy. She was previously the editorial director at Digg and an editor at The Huffington Post.  @annadubenko 

      By SCOTT SHANE and 
    
GABRIELLA DEMCZUK

UPDATED April 17, 2019
 
Here are some pieces of the jigsaw puzzle. The full picture is missing.
 It began with a trickle — curious developments that mostly raised more questions. There was evidence of election hacking — but could it really have been directed by the Kremlin? Certain Americans on Facebook, pitching for Donald J. Trump and stirring up anger, turned out to be impostors — but who had concocted them? One Trump campaign aide after another surfaced in sketchy reports of meetings with mysterious Russians — but did the encounters add up to anything significant? Then there was the candidate’s famously twitchy Twitter finger, scathing toward so many public figures but oddly respectful of the Russian president. Was that a signal of dark secrets, or just of a soft spot for a strongman? And so, in 2016, began the F.B.I.’s epic investigation — and the attempt by journalists to track it. On Thursday, barring a natural disaster or alien attack, the public should get its first real look at the report of Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel. There are a thousand ways for reporters to inquire into the slow unfolding of a complex investigation, many of them producing mostly frustration. Making call after call to lawyers for those under scrutiny — and to their friends and frenemies, rivals and business associates. Poring over a so-called dossier that makes shocking claims but offers little evidence sufficiently detailed to allow a true fact-check. Haunting congressional hearings and trailing the witnesses through the hallway mob scene afterward. And while some F.B.I. inquiries are helpfully leaky for journalists, the special counsel’s investigation proved hermetically sealed. The skimpy summary provided last month by Attorney General William P. Barr — that Mr. Mueller found no criminal conspiracy with Russia but declined to clear the president on obstruction of justice — simply set off more partisan squabbling. So if an investigation is a jigsaw puzzle, the mosaic of the two-year inquiry by Mr. Mueller remains incomplete, at least for the public and the press. We have seen major parts laid out in staggering detail in the 199 charges he has filed against 34 people and three companies — the only way Mr. Mueller, 74, a former F.B.I. director, has so far chosen to speak. Jeff Sessions, the former attorney general, recommended Mr. Comey’s firing. President Trump fired Mr. Comey The special counsel was appointed. We know what keywords a particular Russian military intelligence hacker searched for on the web on a particular date. We know that “Putin’s niece,” introduced to a Trump campaign adviser by a suspicious professor, was not Putin’s niece. We know that a Trump Tower in Moscow, a longtime business dream of Mr. Trump, was still being secretly pursued even as the candidate took public stands that might please or offend Russia. In that sense, the trickle has long since become a flood. The cast of characters has grown, and grown familiar — Flynn, Manafort, Cohen, Papadopoulos; the pattern of lying to investigators and Congress has become routine; the president’s shifting stories have become the norm. News coverage has become background noise, like a sea that periodically surges and retreats. But for all of that, much of the investigation remains guesswork. We don’t know whether we know 90 percent or 50 percent or 20 percent of the findings. It is possible that Mr. Mueller’s team of aggressive prosecutors has already revealed virtually all of its work in public indictments and courtroom pronouncements. And it is also possible that Mr. Mueller’s report, approaching 400 pages before Mr. Barr’s redactions, will still contain some bombshells. Mr. Sessions Rod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general. William P. Barr, the attorney general. In a polarized country, with different news outlets offering divergent partisan spins, different factions fill the Mueller vacuum with radically different realities. Many Democrats, though deflated by Mr. Barr’s preview, still expect to find new evidence in the report of serious misdeeds by the president. Yet many of Mr. Trump’s supporters, drawing their information from different sources, believe the real story is something else entirely: enemies of Mr. Trump misused government agencies to spy on his campaign, then began a bogus investigation to undermine his presidency. Mr. Barr’s qualified affirmation that there was, in fact, “spying,” has energized them. It is an alarming divide, not because the two sides harbor different opinions, but because they believe different sets of facts. So the capital is once again on edge, awaiting Thursday’s revelations. For now — for just a little longer — the special counsel, sphinxlike, keeps his counsel. Produced by Umi Syam, Marisa Schwartz Taylor and Rumsey Taylor.



      By SCOTT SHANE and 
    
GABRIELLA DEMCZUK

UPDATED April 17, 2019
 
Here are some pieces of the jigsaw puzzle. The full picture is missing.
 It began with a trickle — curious developments that mostly raised more questions. There was evidence of election hacking — but could it really have been directed by the Kremlin? Certain Americans on Facebook, pitching for Donald J. Trump and stirring up anger, turned out to be impostors — but who had concocted them? One Trump campaign aide after another surfaced in sketchy reports of meetings with mysterious Russians — but did the encounters add up to anything significant? Then there was the candidate’s famously twitchy Twitter finger, scathing toward so many public figures but oddly respectful of the Russian president. Was that a signal of dark secrets, or just of a soft spot for a strongman? And so, in 2016, began the F.B.I.’s epic investigation — and the attempt by journalists to track it. On Thursday, barring a natural disaster or alien attack, the public should get its first real look at the report of Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel. There are a thousand ways for reporters to inquire into the slow unfolding of a complex investigation, many of them producing mostly frustration. Making call after call to lawyers for those under scrutiny — and to their friends and frenemies, rivals and business associates. Poring over a so-called dossier that makes shocking claims but offers little evidence sufficiently detailed to allow a true fact-check. Haunting congressional hearings and trailing the witnesses through the hallway mob scene afterward. And while some F.B.I. inquiries are helpfully leaky for journalists, the special counsel’s investigation proved hermetically sealed. The skimpy summary provided last month by Attorney General William P. Barr — that Mr. Mueller found no criminal conspiracy with Russia but declined to clear the president on obstruction of justice — simply set off more partisan squabbling. So if an investigation is a jigsaw puzzle, the mosaic of the two-year inquiry by Mr. Mueller remains incomplete, at least for the public and the press. We have seen major parts laid out in staggering detail in the 199 charges he has filed against 34 people and three companies — the only way Mr. Mueller, 74, a former F.B.I. director, has so far chosen to speak. Jeff Sessions, the former attorney general, recommended Mr. Comey’s firing. President Trump fired Mr. Comey The special counsel was appointed. We know what keywords a particular Russian military intelligence hacker searched for on the web on a particular date. We know that “Putin’s niece,” introduced to a Trump campaign adviser by a suspicious professor, was not Putin’s niece. We know that a Trump Tower in Moscow, a longtime business dream of Mr. Trump, was still being secretly pursued even as the candidate took public stands that might please or offend Russia. In that sense, the trickle has long since become a flood. The cast of characters has grown, and grown familiar — Flynn, Manafort, Cohen, Papadopoulos; the pattern of lying to investigators and Congress has become routine; the president’s shifting stories have become the norm. News coverage has become background noise, like a sea that periodically surges and retreats. But for all of that, much of the investigation remains guesswork. We don’t know whether we know 90 percent or 50 percent or 20 percent of the findings. It is possible that Mr. Mueller’s team of aggressive prosecutors has already revealed virtually all of its work in public indictments and courtroom pronouncements. And it is also possible that Mr. Mueller’s report, approaching 400 pages before Mr. Barr’s redactions, will still contain some bombshells. Mr. Sessions Rod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general. William P. Barr, the attorney general. In a polarized country, with different news outlets offering divergent partisan spins, different factions fill the Mueller vacuum with radically different realities. Many Democrats, though deflated by Mr. Barr’s preview, still expect to find new evidence in the report of serious misdeeds by the president. Yet many of Mr. Trump’s supporters, drawing their information from different sources, believe the real story is something else entirely: enemies of Mr. Trump misused government agencies to spy on his campaign, then began a bogus investigation to undermine his presidency. Mr. Barr’s qualified affirmation that there was, in fact, “spying,” has energized them. It is an alarming divide, not because the two sides harbor different opinions, but because they believe different sets of facts. So the capital is once again on edge, awaiting Thursday’s revelations. For now — for just a little longer — the special counsel, sphinxlike, keeps his counsel. Produced by Umi Syam, Marisa Schwartz Taylor and Rumsey Taylor.Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump may not have obstructed justice, but it wasn't for lack of trying. Robert Mueller's 448-page report takes the American public inside the room with Trump as he expressed fear that the special counsel would end his presidency and made several attempts to get the people around him to curtail the probe into his campaign and Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election. Ultimately, Mueller found Trump's inner circle saved him from himself. They refused to carry out orders that could have crossed the line into obstructing justice. Some key takeaways from the report: TRUMP TRIED TO INFLUENCE THE RUSSIA PROBE Mueller details several occasions. Some occurred in public. Others behind closed doors. Trump ordered his White House counsel to try to have Mueller removed. He directed his former campaign manager to deliver a message to then-Attorney General Jeff Sessions to make a public statement calling the investigation "very unfair." He also wanted Sessions to announce that Trump had done "nothing wrong" and to say that the investigation's scope had been limited. But people around Trump either refused or quietly allowed the matters to drop. "The president's efforts to influence the investigation were mostly unsuccessful, but that is largely because the persons who surrounded the president declined to carry out orders or accede to his requests," the special counsel wrote. NO COLLUSION, BUT NO EXONERATION Barr was generally right weeks ago when he released Mueller's key findings. The special counsel did not find a criminal conspiracy between the Trump campaign and the Russian government to interfere in the 2016 presidential election. He did not recommend charging any Trump associates as agents of the Russian government or with campaign finance violations. But on the question of obstruction, Mueller said there was evidence on both sides of the question. He said some of Trump's actions related to potential "garden variety" obstruction. "If we had confidence after a thorough investigation of the facts that the president clearly did not commit obstruction of justice, we would so state. Based on the facts and the applicable legal standards, we are unable to reach that judgment," Mueller wrote. IS THE REPORT GOOD OR BAD FOR TRUMP? It depends on who you ask. Trump's legal team claimed "complete vindication" by the report, and Barr emphasized at his news conference that there was no evidence of collusion. Trump even tweeted out a Game of Thrones themed meme, saying "For the haters and the radical left Democrats — Game Over." But the report describes in detail a president driven to interfere in the probe out of fear that it would "call into question the legitimacy of his election" and his own uncertainty that his family or associates may have violated the law. Mueller wrote that on multiple occasions Trump did things that were "capable of exerting undue influence over law enforcement investigations." Some of that was in private, one-on-one encounters that witnesses relayed to the special counsel. But the president's public acts also raised questions that they could have led witnesses to feel intimidated or alter their testimony, moves that Mueller said were equally threatening to the "justice system's integrity." IGNORANCE OF THE LAW WAS A DEFENSE That was the case for Donald Trump Jr. and a Trump Tower meeting with a Russian lawyer. In June 2016, Trump Jr. agreed to take the meeting despite it being described in emails as part of a Russian government effort to help his father. Trump Jr. was looking for dirt that could be used against Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton. The meeting raised questions about whether Trump Jr. and others violated the federal ban on foreign contributions to American political campaigns. But Mueller, who interviewed many of the participants in the meeting, said he didn't find that he could bring a case. The special counsel wrote that it was unlikely the government could prove that Trump, Jr. and others in the meeting "had general knowledge that their conduct was unlawful." MUELLER FELT HE COULDN'T CHARGE TRUMP— EVEN IN SECRET The report reveals some of Mueller's reasoning behind why he didn't reach a conclusion on the question of obstruction. He says that he would have exonerated Trump if he could have, but he wasn't able to given the evidence he uncovered. Still, Mueller said that the Justice Department's opinion that a sitting president couldn't be indicted meant he also couldn't recommend Trump be criminally charged, even if he made the recommendation in secret. That's because Trump could not defend himself during a public trial while in office. In announcing the release of the redacted report, Attorney General William Barr said he asked Mueller during a meeting in early March about the matter. Mueller replied that he didn't recommend charges against Trump solely because a sitting president can't be indicted, Barr said. ___ Associated Press writers Zeke Miller, Mary Clare Jalonick and Michael Balsamo contributed to this report. ___ For complete coverage of the Mueller report, go to https://www.apnews.com/TrumpInvestigations

Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump may not have obstructed justice, but it wasn't for lack of trying. Robert Mueller's 448-page report takes the American public inside the room with Trump as he expressed fear that the special counsel would end his presidency and made several attempts to get the people around him to curtail the probe into his campaign and Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election. Ultimately, Mueller found Trump's inner circle saved him from himself. They refused to carry out orders that could have crossed the line into obstructing justice. Some key takeaways from the report: TRUMP TRIED TO INFLUENCE THE RUSSIA PROBE Mueller details several occasions. Some occurred in public. Others behind closed doors. Trump ordered his White House counsel to try to have Mueller removed. He directed his former campaign manager to deliver a message to then-Attorney General Jeff Sessions to make a public statement calling the investigation "very unfair." He also wanted Sessions to announce that Trump had done "nothing wrong" and to say that the investigation's scope had been limited. But people around Trump either refused or quietly allowed the matters to drop. "The president's efforts to influence the investigation were mostly unsuccessful, but that is largely because the persons who surrounded the president declined to carry out orders or accede to his requests," the special counsel wrote. NO COLLUSION, BUT NO EXONERATION Barr was generally right weeks ago when he released Mueller's key findings. The special counsel did not find a criminal conspiracy between the Trump campaign and the Russian government to interfere in the 2016 presidential election. He did not recommend charging any Trump associates as agents of the Russian government or with campaign finance violations. But on the question of obstruction, Mueller said there was evidence on both sides of the question. He said some of Trump's actions related to potential "garden variety" obstruction. "If we had confidence after a thorough investigation of the facts that the president clearly did not commit obstruction of justice, we would so state. Based on the facts and the applicable legal standards, we are unable to reach that judgment," Mueller wrote. IS THE REPORT GOOD OR BAD FOR TRUMP? It depends on who you ask. Trump's legal team claimed "complete vindication" by the report, and Barr emphasized at his news conference that there was no evidence of collusion. Trump even tweeted out a Game of Thrones themed meme, saying "For the haters and the radical left Democrats — Game Over." But the report describes in detail a president driven to interfere in the probe out of fear that it would "call into question the legitimacy of his election" and his own uncertainty that his family or associates may have violated the law. Mueller wrote that on multiple occasions Trump did things that were "capable of exerting undue influence over law enforcement investigations." Some of that was in private, one-on-one encounters that witnesses relayed to the special counsel. But the president's public acts also raised questions that they could have led witnesses to feel intimidated or alter their testimony, moves that Mueller said were equally threatening to the "justice system's integrity." IGNORANCE OF THE LAW WAS A DEFENSE That was the case for Donald Trump Jr. and a Trump Tower meeting with a Russian lawyer. In June 2016, Trump Jr. agreed to take the meeting despite it being described in emails as part of a Russian government effort to help his father. Trump Jr. was looking for dirt that could be used against Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton. The meeting raised questions about whether Trump Jr. and others violated the federal ban on foreign contributions to American political campaigns. But Mueller, who interviewed many of the participants in the meeting, said he didn't find that he could bring a case. The special counsel wrote that it was unlikely the government could prove that Trump, Jr. and others in the meeting "had general knowledge that their conduct was unlawful." MUELLER FELT HE COULDN'T CHARGE TRUMP— EVEN IN SECRET The report reveals some of Mueller's reasoning behind why he didn't reach a conclusion on the question of obstruction. He says that he would have exonerated Trump if he could have, but he wasn't able to given the evidence he uncovered. Still, Mueller said that the Justice Department's opinion that a sitting president couldn't be indicted meant he also couldn't recommend Trump be criminally charged, even if he made the recommendation in secret. That's because Trump could not defend himself during a public trial while in office. In announcing the release of the redacted report, Attorney General William Barr said he asked Mueller during a meeting in early March about the matter. Mueller replied that he didn't recommend charges against Trump solely because a sitting president can't be indicted, Barr said. ___ Associated Press writers Zeke Miller, Mary Clare Jalonick and Michael Balsamo contributed to this report. ___ For complete coverage of the Mueller report, go to https://www.apnews.com/TrumpInvestigationsSupported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — The Latest on congressional reaction to special counsel Robert Mueller's report (all times local): 5:15 p.m. The Justice Department says the subpoena issued by House Democrats for the full special counsel report is unnecessary. Justice Department spokesperson Kerri Kupec says Attorney General William Barr released the report with "minimal redactions." Kupec says the department is working with Congress to view more of the report and the subpoena issued Friday by Rep. Jerrold Nadler, the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, is "premature and unnecessary." The department offered Friday to have a select group of congressional leaders view some of the redacted information from the report. But Democrats rejected that offer as insufficient. __ 5 p.m. Top congressional Democrats are rejecting a Justice Department offer to let 12 leading lawmakers see a more complete version of the special counsel's report because they say the suggested ground rules are too limiting. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer and four other leading Democrats said in a letter Friday that lawmakers must see Robert Mueller's entire report so Congress can "fulfill its constitutional responsibilities." They offered to negotiate a workable agreement. The Justice Department is offering to let the legislators see much of the information that was redacted in the report released Thursday. It says only information censored because it pertains to grand jury proceedings would still be withheld. The department said lawmakers could view the less-censored version at the agency and would have to pledge to keep the information confidential. __ 4:30 p.m. Republican Sen. Mitt Romney says he's "sickened" by the level of dishonesty the special counsel found in President Donald Trump's administration. Romney also said Friday he was "appalled" that, according to special counsel Robert Mueller's findings, Americans working on Trump's 2016 presidential campaign welcomed election help from Russia. The one-time GOP presidential nominee tweeted that it's "good news" Trump was not charged with wrongdoing in the investigation. But Romney, who's now a senator from Utah, was critical of what he called the "pervasiveness of dishonesty and misdirection" at the highest levels of the administration, "including the president." __ 9:45 a.m. The chairman of the House Judiciary Committee has issued a subpoena for special counsel Robert Mueller's report as Congress escalates its investigation of President Donald Trump. Rep. Jerrold Nadler of New York say, "It now falls to Congress to determine the full scope of that alleged misconduct and to decide what steps we must take going forward." He expects the Justice Department to comply by May 1. While Mueller declined to prosecute Trump on obstruction of justice, he did not exonerate the president, all but leaving the question to Congress.

Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — The Latest on congressional reaction to special counsel Robert Mueller's report (all times local): 5:15 p.m. The Justice Department says the subpoena issued by House Democrats for the full special counsel report is unnecessary. Justice Department spokesperson Kerri Kupec says Attorney General William Barr released the report with "minimal redactions." Kupec says the department is working with Congress to view more of the report and the subpoena issued Friday by Rep. Jerrold Nadler, the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, is "premature and unnecessary." The department offered Friday to have a select group of congressional leaders view some of the redacted information from the report. But Democrats rejected that offer as insufficient. __ 5 p.m. Top congressional Democrats are rejecting a Justice Department offer to let 12 leading lawmakers see a more complete version of the special counsel's report because they say the suggested ground rules are too limiting. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer and four other leading Democrats said in a letter Friday that lawmakers must see Robert Mueller's entire report so Congress can "fulfill its constitutional responsibilities." They offered to negotiate a workable agreement. The Justice Department is offering to let the legislators see much of the information that was redacted in the report released Thursday. It says only information censored because it pertains to grand jury proceedings would still be withheld. The department said lawmakers could view the less-censored version at the agency and would have to pledge to keep the information confidential. __ 4:30 p.m. Republican Sen. Mitt Romney says he's "sickened" by the level of dishonesty the special counsel found in President Donald Trump's administration. Romney also said Friday he was "appalled" that, according to special counsel Robert Mueller's findings, Americans working on Trump's 2016 presidential campaign welcomed election help from Russia. The one-time GOP presidential nominee tweeted that it's "good news" Trump was not charged with wrongdoing in the investigation. But Romney, who's now a senator from Utah, was critical of what he called the "pervasiveness of dishonesty and misdirection" at the highest levels of the administration, "including the president." __ 9:45 a.m. The chairman of the House Judiciary Committee has issued a subpoena for special counsel Robert Mueller's report as Congress escalates its investigation of President Donald Trump. Rep. Jerrold Nadler of New York say, "It now falls to Congress to determine the full scope of that alleged misconduct and to decide what steps we must take going forward." He expects the Justice Department to comply by May 1. While Mueller declined to prosecute Trump on obstruction of justice, he did not exonerate the president, all but leaving the question to Congress.Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — It was a punt that will be examined for years, if not decades. Special counsel Robert Mueller found he couldn't exonerate President Donald Trump of obstruction of justice, but he wouldn't recommend charging him, either. In explaining the decision to eschew a "traditional prosecutorial judgment," Mueller said he faced not only having to untangle Trump's motivation for trying to curtail the Russia investigation but difficult issues of law. That included the Justice Department's position that a sitting president can't be indicted, the basic tenets of fairness in the American criminal justice system and whether some acts fell within the power of the presidency. Mueller found that Trump made numerous attempts to interfere with the investigation but he was largely foiled — and saved— by those around him, most notably former White House counsel Don McGahn. He and others either refused to follow Trump's orders or let them die quietly through inaction. But in examining a series of episodes, Mueller laid out a process that will almost certainly be questioned during any congressional testimony and be debated in law school classrooms and bars for years to come. From the outset, Mueller said he was bound by the Justice Department's opinion: He couldn't indict Trump. He also felt he couldn't recommend criminal charges even in a secret Justice Department memo or in a charging document filed under seal until after Trump left office. Mueller's team worried such moves could leak, leaving Trump in the position of having a prosecutor say he committed a crime without the ability to defend himself at a public trial. "The concerns about the fairness of such a determination would be heightened in the case of a sitting President, where a federal prosecutor's accusation of a crime, even in an internal report, could carry consequences that extend beyond the realm of criminal justice," Mueller wrote. Mueller said he recognized that any charging recommendation could "potentially pre-empt constitutional processes for addressing presidential misconduct," an apparent reference to Congress' impeachment powers. But Mueller rejected Trump's lawyers' broad interpretation of presidential authority. They argued that the president has expansive powers under the law, and the special counsel couldn't investigate Trump's decisions to fire an appointee, such as FBI Director James Comey, or to try to close a federal investigation. Mueller said he could investigate Trump and he thoroughly examined 10 episodes looking at whether there was an "obstructive act" and whether Trump had a corrupt intent. Ultimately, he laid out the facts, finding that while there wasn't an underlying crime of Russian collusion, Trump still took steps that "were capable of exerting undue influence over law enforcement investigations." "The President's efforts to influence the investigation were mostly unsuccessful," Mueller wrote, "but that is largely because the persons who surrounded the President declined to carry out orders or accede to his requests." Josh Blackman, a professor at the South Texas College of Law Houston, said to find that the president obstructed justice, Mueller needed much clearer evidence that the president acted solely with "corrupt intent." But Nick Akerman, a former federal prosecutor who served as a member of the Watergate prosecution team, said Attorney General William Barr, who cleared Trump of obstruction of justice, had "no business" doing so. "There's just so much here it's just impossible not to conclude that he was guilty of obstruction of justice," said Akerman, who had not yet gotten through all of the report. Still, he said Mueller was bound by the Justice Department's position that a sitting president can't be indicted. "He charged people he could charge," he said. "He couldn't charge Trump." ___ Associated Press writers Zeke Miller and Eric Tucker contributed to this report.

Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — It was a punt that will be examined for years, if not decades. Special counsel Robert Mueller found he couldn't exonerate President Donald Trump of obstruction of justice, but he wouldn't recommend charging him, either. In explaining the decision to eschew a "traditional prosecutorial judgment," Mueller said he faced not only having to untangle Trump's motivation for trying to curtail the Russia investigation but difficult issues of law. That included the Justice Department's position that a sitting president can't be indicted, the basic tenets of fairness in the American criminal justice system and whether some acts fell within the power of the presidency. Mueller found that Trump made numerous attempts to interfere with the investigation but he was largely foiled — and saved— by those around him, most notably former White House counsel Don McGahn. He and others either refused to follow Trump's orders or let them die quietly through inaction. But in examining a series of episodes, Mueller laid out a process that will almost certainly be questioned during any congressional testimony and be debated in law school classrooms and bars for years to come. From the outset, Mueller said he was bound by the Justice Department's opinion: He couldn't indict Trump. He also felt he couldn't recommend criminal charges even in a secret Justice Department memo or in a charging document filed under seal until after Trump left office. Mueller's team worried such moves could leak, leaving Trump in the position of having a prosecutor say he committed a crime without the ability to defend himself at a public trial. "The concerns about the fairness of such a determination would be heightened in the case of a sitting President, where a federal prosecutor's accusation of a crime, even in an internal report, could carry consequences that extend beyond the realm of criminal justice," Mueller wrote. Mueller said he recognized that any charging recommendation could "potentially pre-empt constitutional processes for addressing presidential misconduct," an apparent reference to Congress' impeachment powers. But Mueller rejected Trump's lawyers' broad interpretation of presidential authority. They argued that the president has expansive powers under the law, and the special counsel couldn't investigate Trump's decisions to fire an appointee, such as FBI Director James Comey, or to try to close a federal investigation. Mueller said he could investigate Trump and he thoroughly examined 10 episodes looking at whether there was an "obstructive act" and whether Trump had a corrupt intent. Ultimately, he laid out the facts, finding that while there wasn't an underlying crime of Russian collusion, Trump still took steps that "were capable of exerting undue influence over law enforcement investigations." "The President's efforts to influence the investigation were mostly unsuccessful," Mueller wrote, "but that is largely because the persons who surrounded the President declined to carry out orders or accede to his requests." Josh Blackman, a professor at the South Texas College of Law Houston, said to find that the president obstructed justice, Mueller needed much clearer evidence that the president acted solely with "corrupt intent." But Nick Akerman, a former federal prosecutor who served as a member of the Watergate prosecution team, said Attorney General William Barr, who cleared Trump of obstruction of justice, had "no business" doing so. "There's just so much here it's just impossible not to conclude that he was guilty of obstruction of justice," said Akerman, who had not yet gotten through all of the report. Still, he said Mueller was bound by the Justice Department's position that a sitting president can't be indicted. "He charged people he could charge," he said. "He couldn't charge Trump." ___ Associated Press writers Zeke Miller and Eric Tucker contributed to this report.Supported by By Eileen Sullivan After weeks of combing through the special counsel report on the investigation into Russia’s election interference, including whether any Trump associates coordinated with the Russians and whether President Trump tried to obstruct justice, Attorney General William P. Barr released a redacted version of the more than 400-page document on Thursday. Before releasing the report, Mr. Barr spoke at a news conference Thursday morning and delivered a defense of the president, repeating throughout his remarks that the special counsel found no evidence of conspiracy or collusion between the Trump campaign and the Russians. Democrats have said Mr. Barr’s decision to deliver remarks before lawmakers or the public had a chance to read the report gave the attorney general a head start on shaping the narrative of the conclusions of the special counsel team, led by Robert S. Mueller III, and delivering an account favorable to Mr. Trump. “In other words, there was no evidence of the Trump campaign collusion with the Russian government’s hacking,” Mr. Barr said on Thursday. Here are several things to know about the man in control of what the public can see in one of the most anticipated government documents in history. William Pelham Barr served as an attorney general during the George Bush administration from 1991 to 1993, meaning he has twice sworn to uphold the Constitution, which is not considered to be a pledge of loyalty to the president. Mr. Barr replaced former Attorney General Jeff Sessions, whom Mr. Trump publicly criticized and harangued after Mr. Sessions recused himself from overseeing the government’s Russia investigation. Mr. Sessions was ultimately forced to resign because Mr. Trump found him to be disloyal, largely related to that recusal. Typically, the attorney general maintains an independence from the White House, but Mr. Trump has demonstrated that is not what he wants from his top law enforcement official. On Thursday, Mr. Trump appeared to be pleased with Mr. Barr’s handling of the report, tweeting a meme that said, “No Collusion. No Obstruction. For the haters and the radical left Democrats — Game Over.” He later referred to the investigation as a hoax during remarks at an event to recognize wounded soldiers. “This should never happen to another president again, this hoax,” he said. As Mr. Barr defended the president, he said the special counsel’s considerations for whether the president obstructed justice must be taken in context. “President Trump faced an unprecedented situation. As he entered into office and sought to perform his responsibilities as president, federal agents and prosecutors were scrutinizing his conduct before and after taking office and the conduct of some of his associates,” Mr. Barr said on Thursday morning, before his department publicly released the report. “At the same time there was relentless speculation in the news media about the president’s personal culpability, yet as he said from the beginning, there was, in fact, no collusion.” The Constitution, according to Mr. Barr’s interpretation, does not consider it a crime for the president to wield his executive powers corruptly, for instance by firing a subordinate or by pardoning a loyal aide. It is an interpretation favorable to Mr. Trump. “He alone is the executive branch,” Mr. Barr wrote in an unsolicited June 8, 2018 memo. “As such, he is the sole repository of all Executive powers conferred by the Constitution.” The document appeared to criticize Mr. Mueller’s inquiry into whether Mr. Trump had obstructed justice, and months later, when Mr. Barr received the Mueller report, which did not take a position on whether the president obstructed justice, Mr. Barr and Deputy Attorney General Rod J. Rosenstein concluded Mr. Trump did no such thing. “There is substantial evidence to show that the president was frustrated and angered by his sincere belief that the investigation was undermining his presidency, propelled by his political opponents and fueled by illegal leaks,” Mr. Barr said on Thursday, in what appeared to be a defense of Mr. Trump’s relentless attacks on his political opponents, his own Justice Department and the special counsel’s investigation. “Nonetheless, the White House fully cooperated with the special counsel’s investigation, providing unfettered access to campaign and White House documents, directing senior aides to testify freely and asserting no privilege claims. And At the same time the president took no act that, in fact, deprived the special counsel of the documents and witnesses necessary to complete his investigation. Mr. Barr said during his confirmation hearing that he was approached, in June 2017, by an administration official who said he was looking for attorneys to add to the president’s defense team. Mr. Barr said he told the administration official he could not take on that role at the time, but he agreed to meet with Mr. Trump the next day. “It was a very brief meeting where essentially the president wanted to know — he said, ‘Oh, you know Bob Mueller. How well do you know Bob Mueller?’” Mr. Barr told senators during his January confirmation hearing. He left his phone number with the president at the end of the meeting. Mr. Barr added: “I didn’t hear — hear from him until, you know, later, but about something different, which was the attorney general position.” [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] Mr. Barr and Mr. Mueller have been friends for 30 years, dating back to their early days at the Justice Department, Mr. Barr told lawmakers in January. He said he applauded the appointment of Mr. Mueller to take over the Russia investigation. And even though he wrote an unsolicited memo that appeared to criticize parts of Mr. Mueller’s investigation, Mr. Barr said he expected their friendship to be intact after the investigation was over. (He also said he was not criticizing Mr. Mueller in his memo). Their families are friends, as well, Mr. Barr has said. Their wives went to Bible study together, and Mr. Mueller has been a guest at two of Mr. Barr’s daughters’s weddings. But some members of Mr. Mueller’s team told associates that Mr. Barr’s four-page letter in March did not adequately describe the conclusions of the special counsel. The special counsel’s investigators wrote multiple summaries of the dense report, and some members of the team thought Mr. Barr should have included them in his letter, which cited just a few partial quotes from the report. Last week, Mr. Barr said he would review the F.B.I.’s investigation of the Trump campaign’s ties to Russia, which would include a review of whether there was any improper “spying” by American intelligence agencies on the campaign’s associates, something Mr. Trump has claimed for more than two years. Before he worked for Mr. Trump, Mr. Barr had defended the president’s calls for new investigations into his former Democratic opponent Hillary Clinton. In November 2017, Mr. Barr said there was “nothing inherently wrong about a president calling for an investigation.” He cautioned that such an investigation should only be launched if the “matter warrants investigation,” and not just because Mr. Trump wanted it. The attorney general at the time, Jeff Sessions, assigned a group of senior Justice Department lawyers to look into some of the accusations and report back on whether a special counsel should be appointed to pursue an inquiry. The Justice Department has not opened one.    

Supported by By Eileen Sullivan After weeks of combing through the special counsel report on the investigation into Russia’s election interference, including whether any Trump associates coordinated with the Russians and whether President Trump tried to obstruct justice, Attorney General William P. Barr released a redacted version of the more than 400-page document on Thursday. Before releasing the report, Mr. Barr spoke at a news conference Thursday morning and delivered a defense of the president, repeating throughout his remarks that the special counsel found no evidence of conspiracy or collusion between the Trump campaign and the Russians. Democrats have said Mr. Barr’s decision to deliver remarks before lawmakers or the public had a chance to read the report gave the attorney general a head start on shaping the narrative of the conclusions of the special counsel team, led by Robert S. Mueller III, and delivering an account favorable to Mr. Trump. “In other words, there was no evidence of the Trump campaign collusion with the Russian government’s hacking,” Mr. Barr said on Thursday. Here are several things to know about the man in control of what the public can see in one of the most anticipated government documents in history. William Pelham Barr served as an attorney general during the George Bush administration from 1991 to 1993, meaning he has twice sworn to uphold the Constitution, which is not considered to be a pledge of loyalty to the president. Mr. Barr replaced former Attorney General Jeff Sessions, whom Mr. Trump publicly criticized and harangued after Mr. Sessions recused himself from overseeing the government’s Russia investigation. Mr. Sessions was ultimately forced to resign because Mr. Trump found him to be disloyal, largely related to that recusal. Typically, the attorney general maintains an independence from the White House, but Mr. Trump has demonstrated that is not what he wants from his top law enforcement official. On Thursday, Mr. Trump appeared to be pleased with Mr. Barr’s handling of the report, tweeting a meme that said, “No Collusion. No Obstruction. For the haters and the radical left Democrats — Game Over.” He later referred to the investigation as a hoax during remarks at an event to recognize wounded soldiers. “This should never happen to another president again, this hoax,” he said. As Mr. Barr defended the president, he said the special counsel’s considerations for whether the president obstructed justice must be taken in context. “President Trump faced an unprecedented situation. As he entered into office and sought to perform his responsibilities as president, federal agents and prosecutors were scrutinizing his conduct before and after taking office and the conduct of some of his associates,” Mr. Barr said on Thursday morning, before his department publicly released the report. “At the same time there was relentless speculation in the news media about the president’s personal culpability, yet as he said from the beginning, there was, in fact, no collusion.” The Constitution, according to Mr. Barr’s interpretation, does not consider it a crime for the president to wield his executive powers corruptly, for instance by firing a subordinate or by pardoning a loyal aide. It is an interpretation favorable to Mr. Trump. “He alone is the executive branch,” Mr. Barr wrote in an unsolicited June 8, 2018 memo. “As such, he is the sole repository of all Executive powers conferred by the Constitution.” The document appeared to criticize Mr. Mueller’s inquiry into whether Mr. Trump had obstructed justice, and months later, when Mr. Barr received the Mueller report, which did not take a position on whether the president obstructed justice, Mr. Barr and Deputy Attorney General Rod J. Rosenstein concluded Mr. Trump did no such thing. “There is substantial evidence to show that the president was frustrated and angered by his sincere belief that the investigation was undermining his presidency, propelled by his political opponents and fueled by illegal leaks,” Mr. Barr said on Thursday, in what appeared to be a defense of Mr. Trump’s relentless attacks on his political opponents, his own Justice Department and the special counsel’s investigation. “Nonetheless, the White House fully cooperated with the special counsel’s investigation, providing unfettered access to campaign and White House documents, directing senior aides to testify freely and asserting no privilege claims. And At the same time the president took no act that, in fact, deprived the special counsel of the documents and witnesses necessary to complete his investigation. Mr. Barr said during his confirmation hearing that he was approached, in June 2017, by an administration official who said he was looking for attorneys to add to the president’s defense team. Mr. Barr said he told the administration official he could not take on that role at the time, but he agreed to meet with Mr. Trump the next day. “It was a very brief meeting where essentially the president wanted to know — he said, ‘Oh, you know Bob Mueller. How well do you know Bob Mueller?’” Mr. Barr told senators during his January confirmation hearing. He left his phone number with the president at the end of the meeting. Mr. Barr added: “I didn’t hear — hear from him until, you know, later, but about something different, which was the attorney general position.” [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] Mr. Barr and Mr. Mueller have been friends for 30 years, dating back to their early days at the Justice Department, Mr. Barr told lawmakers in January. He said he applauded the appointment of Mr. Mueller to take over the Russia investigation. And even though he wrote an unsolicited memo that appeared to criticize parts of Mr. Mueller’s investigation, Mr. Barr said he expected their friendship to be intact after the investigation was over. (He also said he was not criticizing Mr. Mueller in his memo). Their families are friends, as well, Mr. Barr has said. Their wives went to Bible study together, and Mr. Mueller has been a guest at two of Mr. Barr’s daughters’s weddings. But some members of Mr. Mueller’s team told associates that Mr. Barr’s four-page letter in March did not adequately describe the conclusions of the special counsel. The special counsel’s investigators wrote multiple summaries of the dense report, and some members of the team thought Mr. Barr should have included them in his letter, which cited just a few partial quotes from the report. Last week, Mr. Barr said he would review the F.B.I.’s investigation of the Trump campaign’s ties to Russia, which would include a review of whether there was any improper “spying” by American intelligence agencies on the campaign’s associates, something Mr. Trump has claimed for more than two years. Before he worked for Mr. Trump, Mr. Barr had defended the president’s calls for new investigations into his former Democratic opponent Hillary Clinton. In November 2017, Mr. Barr said there was “nothing inherently wrong about a president calling for an investigation.” He cautioned that such an investigation should only be launched if the “matter warrants investigation,” and not just because Mr. Trump wanted it. The attorney general at the time, Jeff Sessions, assigned a group of senior Justice Department lawyers to look into some of the accusations and report back on whether a special counsel should be appointed to pursue an inquiry. The Justice Department has not opened one.    Supported by By Astead W. Herndon and Richard Fausset The sense of mourning started to take hold over the weekend, after Attorney General William P. Barr said that Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, had not found coordination between President Trump’s campaign and the Russian government’s election interference in 2016. Over the nearly two years of the Mueller investigation, a segment of liberals and activists built up fervent hopes that it would bring Mr. Trump down. They elevated Mr. Mueller, a former F.B.I. director, into an anti-Trump cultural icon, complete with T-shirts, scented candles and holiday-themed songs like “We Wish You a Mueller Christmas.” For some of them, the report felt like a betrayal. To many others, it was a disappointment. “I was hoping that the truth would come out,” said Shawn Foster, a 45-year-old music video and television producer in Nashville. Mr. Foster had taken to wearing a yellow pin showing the top of the special prosecutor’s head rising like a shark from the sea. Mr. Foster said he was wearing the pin on Sunday when Mr. Barr’s summary of the report came out. “It is definitely embarrassing,” he said. “It’s a drag knowing there are people out there who are gloating.” Jennifer Taub, a Vermont Law School professor who had become known for punchy anti-Trump columns with titles like “Yes, Collusion. Now What?” said, “There are definitely people who thought that Mueller would save us.” Ms. Taub said she remained hopeful that Mr. Mueller’s full findings, which have not yet been made public, would somehow contradict the summary given by Mr. Barr. But she said she understands that the legal threshold for proving conspiracy is high. Last week, she posted a picture of herself on Facebook lighting a candle with Mr. Mueller’s face on it. “I would hope that people who were in this cult of Mueller would have been self-aware or ironic,” she said on Monday. Democrats running in the 2018 midterms and the 2020 presidential race have mainly tried to ignore the Russia investigation, focusing instead on policy issues like climate change, universal health care and raising taxes on the wealthy. But that has not stopped certain members of their political base from becoming ultra-fans of Mr. Mueller. Now, as Mr. Trump and his supporters claim victory, those who had hoped the Mueller investigation would end the Trump presidency are split between feelings of defiance and devastation. This group, which differs from more traditional Democratic activists and party operatives, was sure that Mr. Mueller would implicate the president in conspiracies to influence the 2016 election and obstruct justice. That belief drove an almost obsessive Mueller fandom among the group, which formed its own internet subculture among the wider anti-Trump base. Mr. Mueller was personally revered for being everything the group thought Mr. Trump was not, in ideology, integrity and temperament. A popular podcast called “Mueller, She Wrote,” which is streamed up to 200,000 times a week, calls its Russia-obsessed fans Muellerites. One of the three hosts, a California comedian who goes by A. G. and has a tattoo of Mr. Mueller’s silhouette on her arm, said the community was in what could only be described as a collective state of muted shock. “I’ve had to talk a couple people off the ledge,” she said. One fan of the podcast, Anne Craig-Tillmond, said she wants to see the full report before she’s “completely deflated.” “I’ve been emotionally invested from the start, and was I let down by what Barr said? Absolutely,” Ms. Craig-Tillmond said. “Was I let down by what Mueller said? I don’t know what he said.” The Facebook page of the Robert Mueller Fan Club says on its “About” page, “All hail Robert Mueller — through his work we shall be delivered from this ignorance and evil we suffer.” Barbara Llewellyn, a retired real estate agent from Naperville, Ill., had written “Hallelujah” on the page. But by Monday, she had changed her tune. “I am very disappointed, because I felt that there were so many public instances where Trump acted guilty and tried to shut down the investigation in various ways,” Ms. Llewellyn said. “And I am realizing that this is just Barr’s interpretation of what the report said. And I’m hoping very quickly that Congress gets ahold of it totally unredacted, and we can go from there.” Some progressive activists have been calling for Mr. Trump’s impeachment almost since he took office, and billionaire Tom Steyer ran television advertisements with that aim across the country. But the sense of profound disappointment that has set in on the left illustrates why Democratic campaigns have been so leery of resting their electoral hopes on Mr. Mueller’s investigation and the possibility of impeachment. Top party strategists have long asked Democratic candidates to ignore the Russia investigation and concentrate their fire on more clear-cut targets like Republican attempts to gut or repeal the Affordable Care Act. Tyler Law, a former spokesman for the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, said his party’s House candidates in 2018 “didn’t run a single district paid-media campaign on Russia” because extensive research had found that the issue did not “persuade voters or mobilize the base.” Even Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, who is running for president in 2020 and has called Mr. Trump “corrupt,” has focused her attacks on his business entanglements and failure to release his tax returns, not on the possibility that he coordinated election interference with Russia. At a campaign stop in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, earlier this year, she said: “By the time we get to 2020, Donald Trump may not be president. In fact, he may not even be a free person.” But it wasn’t the Russia investigation alone that she had in mind, she explained afterward. “Come on, how many investigations are there now?” she said. “It’s no longer just the Mueller investigation, they’re everywhere. And these are serious investigations.” This reluctance by Democratic candidates has not stopped other figures on the left from capitalizing on the Mueller obsession among the Democratic base. Ed Krassenstein, who runs a prominent anti-Trump social media account with his brother, Brian, announced plans for a children’s book last year depicted Mr. Mueller as a superhero — complete with a shirtless, muscular pose. After criticism, the Krassenstein brothers changed the book to a “political parody.” Ed Krassenstein said in an interview on Monday that he does not think liberals should regret investing their hopes. “Robert Mueller is still an American hero,” he said. Some Mueller fans say Mr. Barr’s announcement over the weekend is far from the final word. “We haven’t been able to see the report,” said Ruth Story, 75, a former head of the local N.A.A.C.P. chapter in Gulfport, Miss. “We just have Barr’s word, and we knew from the beginning that Barr was determined that nothing would happen. I’m pretty sure that’s why he is now the attorney general.” The little yellow Mueller button that Mr. Foster wore was created by Henry Owings, an Atlanta-area graphic designer, and his friend Rebecca Dudley, an architect and children’s book author and illustrator in Evanston, Ill. On Monday, Ms. Dudley said that they had cranked out a total of 48,000 of the buttons. She also said she was not too disappointed by the Barr letter. “I knew there was no way anything could live up to two years of hype,” she said. “I knew nothing was going to come down like a hammer on the White House.” Ms. Dudley said she was most interested now in understanding what she called “the difference between Barr’s summary and Mueller’s report” and what may come of other investigations still in progress, including by federal prosecutors in the Southern District of New York. She said she was also thinking about making new buttons. These, she said, would be emblazoned with “S.D.N.Y.”   

Supported by By Astead W. Herndon and Richard Fausset The sense of mourning started to take hold over the weekend, after Attorney General William P. Barr said that Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, had not found coordination between President Trump’s campaign and the Russian government’s election interference in 2016. Over the nearly two years of the Mueller investigation, a segment of liberals and activists built up fervent hopes that it would bring Mr. Trump down. They elevated Mr. Mueller, a former F.B.I. director, into an anti-Trump cultural icon, complete with T-shirts, scented candles and holiday-themed songs like “We Wish You a Mueller Christmas.” For some of them, the report felt like a betrayal. To many others, it was a disappointment. “I was hoping that the truth would come out,” said Shawn Foster, a 45-year-old music video and television producer in Nashville. Mr. Foster had taken to wearing a yellow pin showing the top of the special prosecutor’s head rising like a shark from the sea. Mr. Foster said he was wearing the pin on Sunday when Mr. Barr’s summary of the report came out. “It is definitely embarrassing,” he said. “It’s a drag knowing there are people out there who are gloating.” Jennifer Taub, a Vermont Law School professor who had become known for punchy anti-Trump columns with titles like “Yes, Collusion. Now What?” said, “There are definitely people who thought that Mueller would save us.” Ms. Taub said she remained hopeful that Mr. Mueller’s full findings, which have not yet been made public, would somehow contradict the summary given by Mr. Barr. But she said she understands that the legal threshold for proving conspiracy is high. Last week, she posted a picture of herself on Facebook lighting a candle with Mr. Mueller’s face on it. “I would hope that people who were in this cult of Mueller would have been self-aware or ironic,” she said on Monday. Democrats running in the 2018 midterms and the 2020 presidential race have mainly tried to ignore the Russia investigation, focusing instead on policy issues like climate change, universal health care and raising taxes on the wealthy. But that has not stopped certain members of their political base from becoming ultra-fans of Mr. Mueller. Now, as Mr. Trump and his supporters claim victory, those who had hoped the Mueller investigation would end the Trump presidency are split between feelings of defiance and devastation. This group, which differs from more traditional Democratic activists and party operatives, was sure that Mr. Mueller would implicate the president in conspiracies to influence the 2016 election and obstruct justice. That belief drove an almost obsessive Mueller fandom among the group, which formed its own internet subculture among the wider anti-Trump base. Mr. Mueller was personally revered for being everything the group thought Mr. Trump was not, in ideology, integrity and temperament. A popular podcast called “Mueller, She Wrote,” which is streamed up to 200,000 times a week, calls its Russia-obsessed fans Muellerites. One of the three hosts, a California comedian who goes by A. G. and has a tattoo of Mr. Mueller’s silhouette on her arm, said the community was in what could only be described as a collective state of muted shock. “I’ve had to talk a couple people off the ledge,” she said. One fan of the podcast, Anne Craig-Tillmond, said she wants to see the full report before she’s “completely deflated.” “I’ve been emotionally invested from the start, and was I let down by what Barr said? Absolutely,” Ms. Craig-Tillmond said. “Was I let down by what Mueller said? I don’t know what he said.” The Facebook page of the Robert Mueller Fan Club says on its “About” page, “All hail Robert Mueller — through his work we shall be delivered from this ignorance and evil we suffer.” Barbara Llewellyn, a retired real estate agent from Naperville, Ill., had written “Hallelujah” on the page. But by Monday, she had changed her tune. “I am very disappointed, because I felt that there were so many public instances where Trump acted guilty and tried to shut down the investigation in various ways,” Ms. Llewellyn said. “And I am realizing that this is just Barr’s interpretation of what the report said. And I’m hoping very quickly that Congress gets ahold of it totally unredacted, and we can go from there.” Some progressive activists have been calling for Mr. Trump’s impeachment almost since he took office, and billionaire Tom Steyer ran television advertisements with that aim across the country. But the sense of profound disappointment that has set in on the left illustrates why Democratic campaigns have been so leery of resting their electoral hopes on Mr. Mueller’s investigation and the possibility of impeachment. Top party strategists have long asked Democratic candidates to ignore the Russia investigation and concentrate their fire on more clear-cut targets like Republican attempts to gut or repeal the Affordable Care Act. Tyler Law, a former spokesman for the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, said his party’s House candidates in 2018 “didn’t run a single district paid-media campaign on Russia” because extensive research had found that the issue did not “persuade voters or mobilize the base.” Even Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, who is running for president in 2020 and has called Mr. Trump “corrupt,” has focused her attacks on his business entanglements and failure to release his tax returns, not on the possibility that he coordinated election interference with Russia. At a campaign stop in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, earlier this year, she said: “By the time we get to 2020, Donald Trump may not be president. In fact, he may not even be a free person.” But it wasn’t the Russia investigation alone that she had in mind, she explained afterward. “Come on, how many investigations are there now?” she said. “It’s no longer just the Mueller investigation, they’re everywhere. And these are serious investigations.” This reluctance by Democratic candidates has not stopped other figures on the left from capitalizing on the Mueller obsession among the Democratic base. Ed Krassenstein, who runs a prominent anti-Trump social media account with his brother, Brian, announced plans for a children’s book last year depicted Mr. Mueller as a superhero — complete with a shirtless, muscular pose. After criticism, the Krassenstein brothers changed the book to a “political parody.” Ed Krassenstein said in an interview on Monday that he does not think liberals should regret investing their hopes. “Robert Mueller is still an American hero,” he said. Some Mueller fans say Mr. Barr’s announcement over the weekend is far from the final word. “We haven’t been able to see the report,” said Ruth Story, 75, a former head of the local N.A.A.C.P. chapter in Gulfport, Miss. “We just have Barr’s word, and we knew from the beginning that Barr was determined that nothing would happen. I’m pretty sure that’s why he is now the attorney general.” The little yellow Mueller button that Mr. Foster wore was created by Henry Owings, an Atlanta-area graphic designer, and his friend Rebecca Dudley, an architect and children’s book author and illustrator in Evanston, Ill. On Monday, Ms. Dudley said that they had cranked out a total of 48,000 of the buttons. She also said she was not too disappointed by the Barr letter. “I knew there was no way anything could live up to two years of hype,” she said. “I knew nothing was going to come down like a hammer on the White House.” Ms. Dudley said she was most interested now in understanding what she called “the difference between Barr’s summary and Mueller’s report” and what may come of other investigations still in progress, including by federal prosecutors in the Southern District of New York. She said she was also thinking about making new buttons. These, she said, would be emblazoned with “S.D.N.Y.”   Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — Attorney General William Barr could have buried Special Counsel Robert Mueller's Russia report deep in the recesses of the U.S. Justice Department and simply told the public that President Donald Trump would not face criminal prosecution.  "These reports are not supposed to be made public," Barr said at a news conference on Thursday morning before releasing the 448-page report with some information blacked out. Barr was following through on a promise he had made months earlier to make as much of Mueller's findings public as possible.  But that opened him up to widespread criticism from Democrats and some legal experts, who questioned his decision not to charge Trump with obstruction of justice, and accused him of acting like the president's personal defence lawyer.  Mueller's report outlined 10 episodes in which Trump tried to get the special counsel fired, limit the scope of his investigation, or otherwise interfere with the probe. Mueller stopped short of concluding that Trump had committed a crime, but did not exonerate him of wrongdoing either, leaving Barr or Congress the option to take action against the Republican president. Some experts said Barr should have brought charges. "To me, they laid out a chargeable obstruction case," said Shanlon Wu, a former federal prosecutor who represented Rick Gates, the former Trump deputy campaign chairman who has pleaded guilty to conspiracy and making false statements and is cooperating with the investigation.  Barr's news conference, held shortly before the report's release, provided more fodder for his critics.  He praised the White House's cooperation with the investigation and said Trump's public and private efforts to interfere with the probe could have been fuelled by a "sincere belief" that the investigation was "propelled by his political opponents and fuelled by illegal leaks."  At several points, Barr echoed Trump's mantra that Mueller had found "no collusion" with Russia. To some, it was a disappointing performance from a man who had been praised for upholding the Justice Department's independence during a previous stint as attorney general from 1991 to 1993.  "He's really shown himself to be principally focused on defending the president," said Robert Litt, a former federal prosecutor who had supported Barr's nomination for the job. The top two Democrats in Congress, House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer, accused Barr of deliberately distorting Mueller's findings. A Justice Department official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Barr did not mislead the public because the White House cooperated with the probe despite Trump's numerous statements criticizing it.  The official also said Mueller had the choice to either recommend charges against Trump or not, and he had decided against it.  Representative Eric Swalwell, one of more than 15 Democrats running for president, called on Barr to resign.  Justice Department officials declined to respond to the resignation demand. Rudy Giuliani, Trump's personal lawyer, defended the attorney general. "I think Barr is a straight lawyer. He's an honest man," he told Reuters. EASY ON THE REDACTIONS Democrats had worried that Barr might use too heavy a hand when redacting portions of the report that dealt with sensitive material, such as active investigations, confidential legal proceedings and matters of national security.  In the end, only 6 percent of the report was blacked out, according to ProPublica, the nonprofit investigative journalism organization.  "The redactions seemed to me to be reasonable," said Jack Sharman, a lawyer who worked on the impeachment of Democratic President Bill Clinton during the 1990s. "I was a little surprised." Starting next week, 12 top lawmakers and their staffers will be able to see a more complete version in a secure reading room. Still, Barr is sure to face pointed questions when he testifies before Congress in May. Democratic Senator Sheldon Whitehouse, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, said he had no reason to believe Barr's redactions were not made "justifiably and in good faith" but he also criticized him for protecting Trump. "He has over the past few weeks used his office to perform what I consider to be inappropriate PR services for the Trump White House," he said on Friday. To some in Trump's camp, the criticism directed at Barr is a sign of a job well done.  "Attorney General Barr knew every step of the way that people are going to unload on him today," said Michael Caputo, a former Trump campaign adviser. "He had a role to play and he played it."  (Reporting by Andy Sullivan; Additional reporting by Karen Freifeld, Sarah N. Lynch, Nathan Layne and David Morgan; Editing by Leslie Adler and Grant McCool)

Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — Attorney General William Barr could have buried Special Counsel Robert Mueller's Russia report deep in the recesses of the U.S. Justice Department and simply told the public that President Donald Trump would not face criminal prosecution.  "These reports are not supposed to be made public," Barr said at a news conference on Thursday morning before releasing the 448-page report with some information blacked out. Barr was following through on a promise he had made months earlier to make as much of Mueller's findings public as possible.  But that opened him up to widespread criticism from Democrats and some legal experts, who questioned his decision not to charge Trump with obstruction of justice, and accused him of acting like the president's personal defence lawyer.  Mueller's report outlined 10 episodes in which Trump tried to get the special counsel fired, limit the scope of his investigation, or otherwise interfere with the probe. Mueller stopped short of concluding that Trump had committed a crime, but did not exonerate him of wrongdoing either, leaving Barr or Congress the option to take action against the Republican president. Some experts said Barr should have brought charges. "To me, they laid out a chargeable obstruction case," said Shanlon Wu, a former federal prosecutor who represented Rick Gates, the former Trump deputy campaign chairman who has pleaded guilty to conspiracy and making false statements and is cooperating with the investigation.  Barr's news conference, held shortly before the report's release, provided more fodder for his critics.  He praised the White House's cooperation with the investigation and said Trump's public and private efforts to interfere with the probe could have been fuelled by a "sincere belief" that the investigation was "propelled by his political opponents and fuelled by illegal leaks."  At several points, Barr echoed Trump's mantra that Mueller had found "no collusion" with Russia. To some, it was a disappointing performance from a man who had been praised for upholding the Justice Department's independence during a previous stint as attorney general from 1991 to 1993.  "He's really shown himself to be principally focused on defending the president," said Robert Litt, a former federal prosecutor who had supported Barr's nomination for the job. The top two Democrats in Congress, House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer, accused Barr of deliberately distorting Mueller's findings. A Justice Department official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Barr did not mislead the public because the White House cooperated with the probe despite Trump's numerous statements criticizing it.  The official also said Mueller had the choice to either recommend charges against Trump or not, and he had decided against it.  Representative Eric Swalwell, one of more than 15 Democrats running for president, called on Barr to resign.  Justice Department officials declined to respond to the resignation demand. Rudy Giuliani, Trump's personal lawyer, defended the attorney general. "I think Barr is a straight lawyer. He's an honest man," he told Reuters. EASY ON THE REDACTIONS Democrats had worried that Barr might use too heavy a hand when redacting portions of the report that dealt with sensitive material, such as active investigations, confidential legal proceedings and matters of national security.  In the end, only 6 percent of the report was blacked out, according to ProPublica, the nonprofit investigative journalism organization.  "The redactions seemed to me to be reasonable," said Jack Sharman, a lawyer who worked on the impeachment of Democratic President Bill Clinton during the 1990s. "I was a little surprised." Starting next week, 12 top lawmakers and their staffers will be able to see a more complete version in a secure reading room. Still, Barr is sure to face pointed questions when he testifies before Congress in May. Democratic Senator Sheldon Whitehouse, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, said he had no reason to believe Barr's redactions were not made "justifiably and in good faith" but he also criticized him for protecting Trump. "He has over the past few weeks used his office to perform what I consider to be inappropriate PR services for the Trump White House," he said on Friday. To some in Trump's camp, the criticism directed at Barr is a sign of a job well done.  "Attorney General Barr knew every step of the way that people are going to unload on him today," said Michael Caputo, a former Trump campaign adviser. "He had a role to play and he played it."  (Reporting by Andy Sullivan; Additional reporting by Karen Freifeld, Sarah N. Lynch, Nathan Layne and David Morgan; Editing by Leslie Adler and Grant McCool)Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — Attorney General William Barr could have buried Special Counsel Robert Mueller's Russia report deep in the recesses of the U.S. Justice Department and simply told the public that President Donald Trump would not face criminal prosecution.  "These reports are not supposed to be made public," Barr said at a news conference on Thursday morning before releasing the 448-page report with some information blacked out. Barr was following through on a promise he had made months earlier to make as much of Mueller's findings public as possible.  But that opened him up to widespread criticism from Democrats and some legal experts, who questioned his decision not to charge Trump with obstruction of justice, and accused him of acting like the president's personal defense lawyer.  Mueller's report outlined 10 episodes in which Trump tried to get the special counsel fired, limit the scope of his investigation, or otherwise interfere with the probe. Mueller stopped short of concluding that Trump had committed a crime, but did not exonerate him of wrongdoing either, leaving Barr or Congress the option to take action against the Republican president. Some experts said Barr should have brought charges. "To me, they laid out a chargeable obstruction case," said Shanlon Wu, a former federal prosecutor who represented Rick Gates, the former Trump deputy campaign chairman who has pleaded guilty to conspiracy and making false statements and is cooperating with the investigation.  Barr's news conference, held shortly before the report's release, provided more fodder for his critics.  He praised the White House's cooperation with the investigation and said Trump's public and private efforts to interfere with the probe could have been fueled by a "sincere belief" that the investigation was "propelled by his political opponents and fueled by illegal leaks."  At several points, Barr echoed Trump's mantra that Mueller had found "no collusion" with Russia. To some, it was a disappointing performance from a man who had been praised for upholding the Justice Department's independence during a previous stint as attorney general from 1991 to 1993.  "He's really shown himself to be principally focused on defending the president," said Robert Litt, a former federal prosecutor who had supported Barr's nomination for the job. The top two Democrats in Congress, House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer, accused Barr of deliberately distorting Mueller's findings. A Justice Department official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Barr did not mislead the public because the White House cooperated with the probe despite Trump's numerous statements criticizing it.  The official also said Mueller had the choice to either recommend charges against Trump or not, and he had decided against it.  Representative Eric Swalwell, one of more than 15 Democrats running for president, called on Barr to resign.  Justice Department officials declined to respond to the resignation demand. Rudy Giuliani, Trump's personal lawyer, defended the attorney general. "I think Barr is a straight lawyer. He's an honest man," he told Reuters. EASY ON THE REDACTIONS Democrats had worried that Barr might use too heavy a hand when redacting portions of the report that dealt with sensitive material, such as active investigations, confidential legal proceedings and matters of national security.  In the end, only 6 percent of the report was blacked out, according to ProPublica, the nonprofit investigative journalism organization.  "The redactions seemed to me to be reasonable," said Jack Sharman, a lawyer who worked on the impeachment of Democratic President Bill Clinton during the 1990s. "I was a little surprised." Starting next week, 12 top lawmakers and their staffers will be able to see a more complete version in a secure reading room. Still, Barr is sure to face pointed questions when he testifies before Congress in May. Democratic Senator Sheldon Whitehouse, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, said he had no reason to believe Barr's redactions were not made "justifiably and in good faith" but he also criticized him for protecting Trump. "He has over the past few weeks used his office to perform what I consider to be inappropriate PR services for the Trump White House," he said on Friday. To some in Trump's camp, the criticism directed at Barr is a sign of a job well done.  "Attorney General Barr knew every step of the way that people are going to unload on him today," said Michael Caputo, a former Trump campaign adviser. "He had a role to play and he played it."  (Reporting by Andy Sullivan; Additional reporting by Karen Freifeld, Sarah N. Lynch, Nathan Layne and David Morgan; Editing by Leslie Adler and Grant McCool)

Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — Attorney General William Barr could have buried Special Counsel Robert Mueller's Russia report deep in the recesses of the U.S. Justice Department and simply told the public that President Donald Trump would not face criminal prosecution.  "These reports are not supposed to be made public," Barr said at a news conference on Thursday morning before releasing the 448-page report with some information blacked out. Barr was following through on a promise he had made months earlier to make as much of Mueller's findings public as possible.  But that opened him up to widespread criticism from Democrats and some legal experts, who questioned his decision not to charge Trump with obstruction of justice, and accused him of acting like the president's personal defense lawyer.  Mueller's report outlined 10 episodes in which Trump tried to get the special counsel fired, limit the scope of his investigation, or otherwise interfere with the probe. Mueller stopped short of concluding that Trump had committed a crime, but did not exonerate him of wrongdoing either, leaving Barr or Congress the option to take action against the Republican president. Some experts said Barr should have brought charges. "To me, they laid out a chargeable obstruction case," said Shanlon Wu, a former federal prosecutor who represented Rick Gates, the former Trump deputy campaign chairman who has pleaded guilty to conspiracy and making false statements and is cooperating with the investigation.  Barr's news conference, held shortly before the report's release, provided more fodder for his critics.  He praised the White House's cooperation with the investigation and said Trump's public and private efforts to interfere with the probe could have been fueled by a "sincere belief" that the investigation was "propelled by his political opponents and fueled by illegal leaks."  At several points, Barr echoed Trump's mantra that Mueller had found "no collusion" with Russia. To some, it was a disappointing performance from a man who had been praised for upholding the Justice Department's independence during a previous stint as attorney general from 1991 to 1993.  "He's really shown himself to be principally focused on defending the president," said Robert Litt, a former federal prosecutor who had supported Barr's nomination for the job. The top two Democrats in Congress, House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer, accused Barr of deliberately distorting Mueller's findings. A Justice Department official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Barr did not mislead the public because the White House cooperated with the probe despite Trump's numerous statements criticizing it.  The official also said Mueller had the choice to either recommend charges against Trump or not, and he had decided against it.  Representative Eric Swalwell, one of more than 15 Democrats running for president, called on Barr to resign.  Justice Department officials declined to respond to the resignation demand. Rudy Giuliani, Trump's personal lawyer, defended the attorney general. "I think Barr is a straight lawyer. He's an honest man," he told Reuters. EASY ON THE REDACTIONS Democrats had worried that Barr might use too heavy a hand when redacting portions of the report that dealt with sensitive material, such as active investigations, confidential legal proceedings and matters of national security.  In the end, only 6 percent of the report was blacked out, according to ProPublica, the nonprofit investigative journalism organization.  "The redactions seemed to me to be reasonable," said Jack Sharman, a lawyer who worked on the impeachment of Democratic President Bill Clinton during the 1990s. "I was a little surprised." Starting next week, 12 top lawmakers and their staffers will be able to see a more complete version in a secure reading room. Still, Barr is sure to face pointed questions when he testifies before Congress in May. Democratic Senator Sheldon Whitehouse, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, said he had no reason to believe Barr's redactions were not made "justifiably and in good faith" but he also criticized him for protecting Trump. "He has over the past few weeks used his office to perform what I consider to be inappropriate PR services for the Trump White House," he said on Friday. To some in Trump's camp, the criticism directed at Barr is a sign of a job well done.  "Attorney General Barr knew every step of the way that people are going to unload on him today," said Michael Caputo, a former Trump campaign adviser. "He had a role to play and he played it."  (Reporting by Andy Sullivan; Additional reporting by Karen Freifeld, Sarah N. Lynch, Nathan Layne and David Morgan; Editing by Leslie Adler and Grant McCool)Supported by By Maureen Dowd Opinion Columnist WASHINGTON — I got a call at 3 p.m. on Friday from the Washington electric company telling me that a manhole in front of my house was smoking, that the underground cable to my house had burned up because it was old and that all the power in my house was out. “I can’t come home now,” I told the electric guy. I was extremely busy doing what everyone else in town was doing — nothing. Waiting. My house was the least of it — the whole city was short-circuiting. After word spread that Robert Mueller was going to deliver his report to the Justice Department at noon on Friday, a fog of anxiety crept in on little cat feet. (Sorry, Carl Sandburg.) After the president flew off to Mar-a-Lago, the skies darkened and rain pelted down. We drank coffee and waited. We ate burgers and waited. We watched basketball and waited for Mueller’s March Madness. All day, cable chatterers ranted about this being a significant moment in American history, but no one was sure yet what the significance was. As William Goldman once said of Hollywood, “Nobody knows anything.” And as Tom Petty sang, “The waiting is the hardest part.” Democrats yearned to have Mueller scream “Collusion!” like Marlon Brando once screamed “Stella!” And come to the podium to announce: “This is a real national emergency. The president is a Russian agent and needs to go immediately, along with his family.” They wished Bobby Boy Scout would go up to the Capitol and act like Rachel McAdams’s Regina George in “Mean Girls,” when she strides down the halls of the school scattering pages into the air that she had copied from the dishy Burn Book. No chance. The 74-year-old, an Ivy League graduate and a decorated Marine in Vietnam, is so meticulous that he would not even deviate to wear a blue shirt when he ran the F.B.I., seeing that as compromising his integrity. He has run the only disciplined, airtight operation in the undisciplined, leaky Trump era. Not even Rudy Giuliani, the president’s lawyer, knew what was happening when The Times’s Katie Rogers tracked him down at the Trump hotel at 1:30 p.m., as he sat at a table in the lobby and worked his cellphone trying to get information. No one, from the president on down, knew exactly when the report would come or what it would say. With his usual bravado about his base, Trump told Fox’s Maria Bartiromo that “people will not stand for it” if the report was damning. All we really knew was that this was a pivotal moment, not only for Trump but also for his Javert. If the special counsel delivered a weak gruel, after all the time, money, newsprint and digital space lavished on it, people would demand to know why he hadn’t pulled the plug long ago. By Friday morning, White House officials had been feeling better and Democrats who had once fantasized that Mueller would put Trump in a jumpsuit to match his hair began to emphasize that it was their congressional investigations and New York prosecutors that were going to bring Trump to justice. Still, no one knew for sure. It was not thought that Trump would be indicted, because Justice Department rules say a president can’t be indicted. So, the question was: Would Mueller imply that the only thing that saved Trump from an obstruction charge was the fact that he was sitting in the Oval Office? How much evidence would Mueller show that Trump actually tried to obstruct justice? As Happy Hour approached, Attorney General William Barr notified White House and congressional leaders that Mueller had delivered his report. The two Republicans are good friends who go back decades, a fact that startled Trump when Barr mentioned it during his confirmation hearings. (When Barr was attorney general the first time, under George H.W. Bush, he was Mueller’s boss, when Mueller led the criminal division.) In his letter to the leaders of the House and Senate Judiciary Committees, Barr said he might be able to brief them on the main conclusions of the report this weekend. The Justice Department said no more indictments were coming in the Russia investigation. Could Don Jr. and Jared have shaken off the bloodhounds? The scene Friday was far more occluded than the media hullabaloo on Sept. 9, 1998, when two dark vans pulled up to Capitol Hill with 36 boxes containing Ken Starr’s report on presidential chicanery. Starr was a star leaker and showboat, and journalists and the public were quickly able to get their hands on the document on which the fate of the Republic was hanging. It was something of a shock to learn that the supposedly dignified independent counsel — who was once on a shortlist for the Supreme Court — had delivered a 445-page bodice ripper, a trite story of an office affair in all its seamy particulars, told with such sanctimony that it was redolent of Nathaniel Hawthorne. It was clear that the sins recorded were not black enough to merit impeachment. Politicians in Washington have been having illicit sex and lying about it since George Washington slept here. But that didn’t stop Republicans from impeaching Bill Clinton that December. In the end, the reputation of Starr and the hypocritical Republicans, some of whom were having their own affairs with young government aides, suffered. And the country suffered as well. Clinton came out more popular, until #MeToo caught up with him. As much as Trump will spin victory and claim it’s all over, Friday was not the end of what the president tweeted was “the World’s most expensive Witch Hunt.” Democrats, aflame with investigative zeal, demanded that the report be made public and all of Mueller’s files be turned over to Congress. Mueller may be winding down, but the Democrats are just getting wound up. I invite you to follow me on Twitter (@MaureenDowd) and join me on Facebook. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.   OpinionThe Editorial Board OpinionNoah Bookbinder OpinionCaroline Fredrickson

Supported by By Maureen Dowd Opinion Columnist WASHINGTON — I got a call at 3 p.m. on Friday from the Washington electric company telling me that a manhole in front of my house was smoking, that the underground cable to my house had burned up because it was old and that all the power in my house was out. “I can’t come home now,” I told the electric guy. I was extremely busy doing what everyone else in town was doing — nothing. Waiting. My house was the least of it — the whole city was short-circuiting. After word spread that Robert Mueller was going to deliver his report to the Justice Department at noon on Friday, a fog of anxiety crept in on little cat feet. (Sorry, Carl Sandburg.) After the president flew off to Mar-a-Lago, the skies darkened and rain pelted down. We drank coffee and waited. We ate burgers and waited. We watched basketball and waited for Mueller’s March Madness. All day, cable chatterers ranted about this being a significant moment in American history, but no one was sure yet what the significance was. As William Goldman once said of Hollywood, “Nobody knows anything.” And as Tom Petty sang, “The waiting is the hardest part.” Democrats yearned to have Mueller scream “Collusion!” like Marlon Brando once screamed “Stella!” And come to the podium to announce: “This is a real national emergency. The president is a Russian agent and needs to go immediately, along with his family.” They wished Bobby Boy Scout would go up to the Capitol and act like Rachel McAdams’s Regina George in “Mean Girls,” when she strides down the halls of the school scattering pages into the air that she had copied from the dishy Burn Book. No chance. The 74-year-old, an Ivy League graduate and a decorated Marine in Vietnam, is so meticulous that he would not even deviate to wear a blue shirt when he ran the F.B.I., seeing that as compromising his integrity. He has run the only disciplined, airtight operation in the undisciplined, leaky Trump era. Not even Rudy Giuliani, the president’s lawyer, knew what was happening when The Times’s Katie Rogers tracked him down at the Trump hotel at 1:30 p.m., as he sat at a table in the lobby and worked his cellphone trying to get information. No one, from the president on down, knew exactly when the report would come or what it would say. With his usual bravado about his base, Trump told Fox’s Maria Bartiromo that “people will not stand for it” if the report was damning. All we really knew was that this was a pivotal moment, not only for Trump but also for his Javert. If the special counsel delivered a weak gruel, after all the time, money, newsprint and digital space lavished on it, people would demand to know why he hadn’t pulled the plug long ago. By Friday morning, White House officials had been feeling better and Democrats who had once fantasized that Mueller would put Trump in a jumpsuit to match his hair began to emphasize that it was their congressional investigations and New York prosecutors that were going to bring Trump to justice. Still, no one knew for sure. It was not thought that Trump would be indicted, because Justice Department rules say a president can’t be indicted. So, the question was: Would Mueller imply that the only thing that saved Trump from an obstruction charge was the fact that he was sitting in the Oval Office? How much evidence would Mueller show that Trump actually tried to obstruct justice? As Happy Hour approached, Attorney General William Barr notified White House and congressional leaders that Mueller had delivered his report. The two Republicans are good friends who go back decades, a fact that startled Trump when Barr mentioned it during his confirmation hearings. (When Barr was attorney general the first time, under George H.W. Bush, he was Mueller’s boss, when Mueller led the criminal division.) In his letter to the leaders of the House and Senate Judiciary Committees, Barr said he might be able to brief them on the main conclusions of the report this weekend. The Justice Department said no more indictments were coming in the Russia investigation. Could Don Jr. and Jared have shaken off the bloodhounds? The scene Friday was far more occluded than the media hullabaloo on Sept. 9, 1998, when two dark vans pulled up to Capitol Hill with 36 boxes containing Ken Starr’s report on presidential chicanery. Starr was a star leaker and showboat, and journalists and the public were quickly able to get their hands on the document on which the fate of the Republic was hanging. It was something of a shock to learn that the supposedly dignified independent counsel — who was once on a shortlist for the Supreme Court — had delivered a 445-page bodice ripper, a trite story of an office affair in all its seamy particulars, told with such sanctimony that it was redolent of Nathaniel Hawthorne. It was clear that the sins recorded were not black enough to merit impeachment. Politicians in Washington have been having illicit sex and lying about it since George Washington slept here. But that didn’t stop Republicans from impeaching Bill Clinton that December. In the end, the reputation of Starr and the hypocritical Republicans, some of whom were having their own affairs with young government aides, suffered. And the country suffered as well. Clinton came out more popular, until #MeToo caught up with him. As much as Trump will spin victory and claim it’s all over, Friday was not the end of what the president tweeted was “the World’s most expensive Witch Hunt.” Democrats, aflame with investigative zeal, demanded that the report be made public and all of Mueller’s files be turned over to Congress. Mueller may be winding down, but the Democrats are just getting wound up. I invite you to follow me on Twitter (@MaureenDowd) and join me on Facebook. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.   OpinionThe Editorial Board OpinionNoah Bookbinder OpinionCaroline Fredrickson            Paul Manafort’s Trail of Scandals My Dead Dad’s Porno Tapes Ten Meter Tower Between Sound and Silence Coal Miner to Trump: “Coal Mining Isn’t Coming Back” House Tour | Cary Leibowitz Sanctuary City Hotline 2011: Arab Spring ‘Can The President Be Impeached?’ We Answer Your Questions Calving Season

            Paul Manafort’s Trail of Scandals My Dead Dad’s Porno Tapes Ten Meter Tower Between Sound and Silence Coal Miner to Trump: “Coal Mining Isn’t Coming Back” House Tour | Cary Leibowitz Sanctuary City Hotline 2011: Arab Spring ‘Can The President Be Impeached?’ We Answer Your Questions Calving SeasonSupported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — To Donald Trump, the start of special counsel Robert Mueller's investigation looked alarmingly like the end of his presidency. So he tried to stop it. His months-long effort pushed the boundaries of presidential powers and the law, revealing a commander in chief consumed by self-interest and intent on having his top lieutenants lie or obfuscate on his behalf. The fact that many refused to do so may have helped save Trump from being charged with obstructing justice. Those advisers effectively served as the guardrails in a White House that often seems to have none. A White House counsel who told the president he would rather resign than oust Mueller. A senior West Wing aide who quietly ignored a request to pass messages to the attorney general, who had already recused himself from the investigation. "The incidents were often carried out through one-on-one meetings in which the president sought to use his official power outside of usual channels," Mueller wrote in his redacted 448-page report. The episodes detailed by the special counsel paint a damning portrait of a president consumed by the investigation. Even after more than two years of revelations about Trump's willingness to lie or press others to do so, Mueller's report put into sharp focus the president's disregard for governing norms and his willingness to challenge both legal and political limits. Trump and his advisers can herald the fact that two years of investigation ended without criminal charges for the president, not only on obstruction but also on criminal conspiracy with Russia to help him win the 2016 election. Though numerous people with ties to Trump — including former national security adviser Michael Flynn and ex-campaign chairman Paul Manafort — did plead guilty to crimes, no Americans were indicted for colluding with Moscow. "His greatest rebuttal will be he's in office, he's going to remain in office and he'll get re-elected because the Democrats have nothing," Kellyanne Conway, a senior White House adviser, said of the president. Indeed, the Democrats' next steps are unclear. Some lawmakers will likely continue to press for impeachment proceedings, though party leaders are skeptical of that approach. House Judiciary Chairman Jerrold Nadler has requested that Mueller testify before his committee within weeks and plans to subpoena for the full report and underlying evidence. Yet the end of Mueller's investigation did more than answer questions about whether Trump and his associates committed crimes. The probe underscored just how far Trump has gone in pushing the limits of the presidency and encouraging others to help him do so. Rep. Adam Schiff, Democratic chair of the House intelligence committee, said that while Trump's actions may not have been criminal, they were "dishonest, unethical, immoral and unpatriotic." Trump's actions were in line with his behavior as a businessman, when he employed a team of lawyers and fixers to protect him from legal trouble. One of those longtime confidants, lawyer Michael Cohen, was brought down in an investigation stemming from Mueller's probe, centering on hush money payments he made during the 2016 campaign to women who alleged sexual relationships with Trump. In other facets of his administration, Trump has also pressed legal bounds. He has repeatedly directed immigration advisers to take actions they deemed illegal, including blocking all migrants from seeking asylum. When it became clear in recent weeks that those advisers would not follow his orders, he ordered an overhaul of the top echelons of the Department of Homeland Security. There were clear echoes of that behavior throughout Mueller's report. The most startling episode came in June 2017, when Trump directed White House Counsel Don McGahn to call Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, who oversaw the probe, and say that Mueller must be ousted because he had conflicts of interest. McGahn refused — deciding he would rather resign than trigger a potential constitutional crisis. Two days later, the president tried another avenue to alter the investigation. During a meeting with former campaign manager Corey Lewandowski, he dictated a message for Lewandowski to relay to then-Attorney General Jeff Sessions. Though Sessions had already recused himself from the investigation, Trump was ordering him to publicly call the probe "very unfair" to the president, declare Trump did nothing wrong and say that Mueller should limit his probe to "investigating election meddling for future elections." Lewandowski didn't want to deliver the message, according to Mueller, so he asked senior White House official Rick Dearborn to do so. Dearborn was uncomfortable with the request, Mueller writes, and did not follow through. Most of the advisers who blocked Trump's requests have since left his administration. ___ ___ For complete coverage of the Mueller report, go to https://www.apnews.com/TrumpInvestigations

Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — To Donald Trump, the start of special counsel Robert Mueller's investigation looked alarmingly like the end of his presidency. So he tried to stop it. His months-long effort pushed the boundaries of presidential powers and the law, revealing a commander in chief consumed by self-interest and intent on having his top lieutenants lie or obfuscate on his behalf. The fact that many refused to do so may have helped save Trump from being charged with obstructing justice. Those advisers effectively served as the guardrails in a White House that often seems to have none. A White House counsel who told the president he would rather resign than oust Mueller. A senior West Wing aide who quietly ignored a request to pass messages to the attorney general, who had already recused himself from the investigation. "The incidents were often carried out through one-on-one meetings in which the president sought to use his official power outside of usual channels," Mueller wrote in his redacted 448-page report. The episodes detailed by the special counsel paint a damning portrait of a president consumed by the investigation. Even after more than two years of revelations about Trump's willingness to lie or press others to do so, Mueller's report put into sharp focus the president's disregard for governing norms and his willingness to challenge both legal and political limits. Trump and his advisers can herald the fact that two years of investigation ended without criminal charges for the president, not only on obstruction but also on criminal conspiracy with Russia to help him win the 2016 election. Though numerous people with ties to Trump — including former national security adviser Michael Flynn and ex-campaign chairman Paul Manafort — did plead guilty to crimes, no Americans were indicted for colluding with Moscow. "His greatest rebuttal will be he's in office, he's going to remain in office and he'll get re-elected because the Democrats have nothing," Kellyanne Conway, a senior White House adviser, said of the president. Indeed, the Democrats' next steps are unclear. Some lawmakers will likely continue to press for impeachment proceedings, though party leaders are skeptical of that approach. House Judiciary Chairman Jerrold Nadler has requested that Mueller testify before his committee within weeks and plans to subpoena for the full report and underlying evidence. Yet the end of Mueller's investigation did more than answer questions about whether Trump and his associates committed crimes. The probe underscored just how far Trump has gone in pushing the limits of the presidency and encouraging others to help him do so. Rep. Adam Schiff, Democratic chair of the House intelligence committee, said that while Trump's actions may not have been criminal, they were "dishonest, unethical, immoral and unpatriotic." Trump's actions were in line with his behavior as a businessman, when he employed a team of lawyers and fixers to protect him from legal trouble. One of those longtime confidants, lawyer Michael Cohen, was brought down in an investigation stemming from Mueller's probe, centering on hush money payments he made during the 2016 campaign to women who alleged sexual relationships with Trump. In other facets of his administration, Trump has also pressed legal bounds. He has repeatedly directed immigration advisers to take actions they deemed illegal, including blocking all migrants from seeking asylum. When it became clear in recent weeks that those advisers would not follow his orders, he ordered an overhaul of the top echelons of the Department of Homeland Security. There were clear echoes of that behavior throughout Mueller's report. The most startling episode came in June 2017, when Trump directed White House Counsel Don McGahn to call Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, who oversaw the probe, and say that Mueller must be ousted because he had conflicts of interest. McGahn refused — deciding he would rather resign than trigger a potential constitutional crisis. Two days later, the president tried another avenue to alter the investigation. During a meeting with former campaign manager Corey Lewandowski, he dictated a message for Lewandowski to relay to then-Attorney General Jeff Sessions. Though Sessions had already recused himself from the investigation, Trump was ordering him to publicly call the probe "very unfair" to the president, declare Trump did nothing wrong and say that Mueller should limit his probe to "investigating election meddling for future elections." Lewandowski didn't want to deliver the message, according to Mueller, so he asked senior White House official Rick Dearborn to do so. Dearborn was uncomfortable with the request, Mueller writes, and did not follow through. Most of the advisers who blocked Trump's requests have since left his administration. ___ ___ For complete coverage of the Mueller report, go to https://www.apnews.com/TrumpInvestigationsSupported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — After nearly two years of waiting, America will get some answers straight from Robert Mueller— but not before President Donald Trump's attorney general has his say. The Justice Department on Thursday is expected to release a redacted version of the special counsel's report on Russian election interference and Trump's campaign, opening up months, if not years, of fights over what the document means in a deeply divided country. Even the planned release of the nearly 400-page report quickly spiraled into a political battle Wednesday over whether Attorney General William Barr is attempting to shield the president who appointed him and spin the report's findings before the American people can read it and come to their own judgments. Barr will hold a 9:30 a.m. news conference to present his interpretation of the report's findings, before providing redacted copies to Congress and the public. The news conference, first announced by Trump during a radio interview, provoked immediate criticism from congressional Democrats. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said Barr had "thrown out his credibility & the DOJ's independence with his single-minded effort to protect" Trump. And Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer said, "The process is poisoned before the report is even released." "Barr shouldn't be spinning the report at all, but it's doubly outrageous he's doing it before America is given a chance to read it," Schumer said. A Justice Department official confirmed Barr's plan to speak and answer questions about his "process" before the report's public release. He will be accompanied by Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, who oversaw the investigation after Mueller's appointment in May 2017. Mueller and other members of his team will not attend, special counsel spokesman Peter Carr said. After the news conference, the report will be delivered to Congress on CDs between 11 a.m. and noon and then be posted on the special counsel's website, said the official, who wasn't authorized to discuss the matter publicly and spoke on condition of anonymity. Barr formulated the report's roll-out and briefed the White House on his plans, according to a White House official who was not authorized to discuss the matter publicly. The White House declined to comment on an ABC News report that it had been briefed on the contents of Mueller's report beyond what Barr has made public. At a later date, the Justice Department also plans to provide a "limited number" of members of Congress and their staff access to a copy of the Mueller report with fewer redactions than the public version, according to a court filing Wednesday. The report is expected to reveal what Mueller uncovered about ties between the Trump campaign and Russia that fell short of criminal conduct. It will also lay out the special counsel's conclusions about formative episodes in Trump's presidency, including his firing of FBI Director James Comey and his efforts to undermine the Russia investigation publicly and privately. The report is not expected to place the president in legal jeopardy, as Barr made his own decision that Trump shouldn't be prosecuted for obstruction. But it is likely to contain unflattering details about the president's efforts to control the Russia investigation that will cloud his ability to credibly claim total exoneration. And it may paint the Trump campaign as eager to exploit Russian aid and emails stolen from Democrats and Hillary Clinton's campaign even if no Americans crossed the line into criminal activity. The report's release will be a test of Barr's credibility as the public and Congress judge whether he is using his post to protect Trump. Barr will also face scrutiny over how much of the report he blacks out and whether Mueller's document lines up with a letter the attorney general released last month. The letter said Mueller didn't find a criminal conspiracy between the Trump campaign and the Russian government but he found evidence on "both sides" of the question of whether the president obstructed justice. Barr has said he is withholding grand jury and classified information as well as portions relating to ongoing investigation and the privacy or reputation of uncharged "peripheral" people. But how liberally he interprets those categories is yet to be seen. Democrats have vowed to fight in court for the disclosure of the additional information from the report and say they have subpoenas ready to go if it is heavily redacted. House Judiciary Chairman Jerrold Nadler, D-N.Y., said Wednesday he will "probably find it useful" to call Mueller and members of his team to testify after reading the version of the report Barr releases. Nadler also criticized the attorney general for trying to "bake in the narrative" of the report to the benefit of the White House. Late Wednesday, Nadler joined the chairs of four other House committees in calling for Barr to cancel his news conference. But Rep. Doug Collins of Georgia, the ranking Republican on the Judiciary Committee, defended Barr and accused Democrats of "trying to spin the report." Collins said Barr has done "nothing unilaterally," saying he had worked with Rosenstein and Mueller's team "step by step." Mueller is known to have investigated multiple efforts by the president over the last two years to influence the Russia probe or shape public perception of it. In addition to Comey's firing, Mueller scrutinized the president's request of Comey to end an investigation into Trump's first national security adviser; his relentless badgering of former Attorney General Jeff Sessions over his recusal from the Russia investigation; and his role in drafting an incomplete explanation about a meeting his oldest son took at Trump Tower with a Kremlin-connected lawyer. Overall, Mueller brought charges against 34 people — including six Trump aides and advisers — and revealed a sophisticated, wide-ranging Russian effort to influence the 2016 presidential election. Twenty-five of those charged were Russians accused either in the hacking of Democratic email accounts or of a hidden but powerful social media effort to spread disinformation online. Five former Trump aides or advisers pleaded guilty and agreed to cooperate in Mueller's investigation, including Trump's campaign chairman, national security adviser and personal lawyer. ___ Associated Press writers Mary Clare Jalonick and Zeke Miller in Washington and Jonathan Lemire and Jennifer Peltz in New York contributed to this report.

Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — After nearly two years of waiting, America will get some answers straight from Robert Mueller— but not before President Donald Trump's attorney general has his say. The Justice Department on Thursday is expected to release a redacted version of the special counsel's report on Russian election interference and Trump's campaign, opening up months, if not years, of fights over what the document means in a deeply divided country. Even the planned release of the nearly 400-page report quickly spiraled into a political battle Wednesday over whether Attorney General William Barr is attempting to shield the president who appointed him and spin the report's findings before the American people can read it and come to their own judgments. Barr will hold a 9:30 a.m. news conference to present his interpretation of the report's findings, before providing redacted copies to Congress and the public. The news conference, first announced by Trump during a radio interview, provoked immediate criticism from congressional Democrats. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said Barr had "thrown out his credibility & the DOJ's independence with his single-minded effort to protect" Trump. And Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer said, "The process is poisoned before the report is even released." "Barr shouldn't be spinning the report at all, but it's doubly outrageous he's doing it before America is given a chance to read it," Schumer said. A Justice Department official confirmed Barr's plan to speak and answer questions about his "process" before the report's public release. He will be accompanied by Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, who oversaw the investigation after Mueller's appointment in May 2017. Mueller and other members of his team will not attend, special counsel spokesman Peter Carr said. After the news conference, the report will be delivered to Congress on CDs between 11 a.m. and noon and then be posted on the special counsel's website, said the official, who wasn't authorized to discuss the matter publicly and spoke on condition of anonymity. Barr formulated the report's roll-out and briefed the White House on his plans, according to a White House official who was not authorized to discuss the matter publicly. The White House declined to comment on an ABC News report that it had been briefed on the contents of Mueller's report beyond what Barr has made public. At a later date, the Justice Department also plans to provide a "limited number" of members of Congress and their staff access to a copy of the Mueller report with fewer redactions than the public version, according to a court filing Wednesday. The report is expected to reveal what Mueller uncovered about ties between the Trump campaign and Russia that fell short of criminal conduct. It will also lay out the special counsel's conclusions about formative episodes in Trump's presidency, including his firing of FBI Director James Comey and his efforts to undermine the Russia investigation publicly and privately. The report is not expected to place the president in legal jeopardy, as Barr made his own decision that Trump shouldn't be prosecuted for obstruction. But it is likely to contain unflattering details about the president's efforts to control the Russia investigation that will cloud his ability to credibly claim total exoneration. And it may paint the Trump campaign as eager to exploit Russian aid and emails stolen from Democrats and Hillary Clinton's campaign even if no Americans crossed the line into criminal activity. The report's release will be a test of Barr's credibility as the public and Congress judge whether he is using his post to protect Trump. Barr will also face scrutiny over how much of the report he blacks out and whether Mueller's document lines up with a letter the attorney general released last month. The letter said Mueller didn't find a criminal conspiracy between the Trump campaign and the Russian government but he found evidence on "both sides" of the question of whether the president obstructed justice. Barr has said he is withholding grand jury and classified information as well as portions relating to ongoing investigation and the privacy or reputation of uncharged "peripheral" people. But how liberally he interprets those categories is yet to be seen. Democrats have vowed to fight in court for the disclosure of the additional information from the report and say they have subpoenas ready to go if it is heavily redacted. House Judiciary Chairman Jerrold Nadler, D-N.Y., said Wednesday he will "probably find it useful" to call Mueller and members of his team to testify after reading the version of the report Barr releases. Nadler also criticized the attorney general for trying to "bake in the narrative" of the report to the benefit of the White House. Late Wednesday, Nadler joined the chairs of four other House committees in calling for Barr to cancel his news conference. But Rep. Doug Collins of Georgia, the ranking Republican on the Judiciary Committee, defended Barr and accused Democrats of "trying to spin the report." Collins said Barr has done "nothing unilaterally," saying he had worked with Rosenstein and Mueller's team "step by step." Mueller is known to have investigated multiple efforts by the president over the last two years to influence the Russia probe or shape public perception of it. In addition to Comey's firing, Mueller scrutinized the president's request of Comey to end an investigation into Trump's first national security adviser; his relentless badgering of former Attorney General Jeff Sessions over his recusal from the Russia investigation; and his role in drafting an incomplete explanation about a meeting his oldest son took at Trump Tower with a Kremlin-connected lawyer. Overall, Mueller brought charges against 34 people — including six Trump aides and advisers — and revealed a sophisticated, wide-ranging Russian effort to influence the 2016 presidential election. Twenty-five of those charged were Russians accused either in the hacking of Democratic email accounts or of a hidden but powerful social media effort to spread disinformation online. Five former Trump aides or advisers pleaded guilty and agreed to cooperate in Mueller's investigation, including Trump's campaign chairman, national security adviser and personal lawyer. ___ Associated Press writers Mary Clare Jalonick and Zeke Miller in Washington and Jonathan Lemire and Jennifer Peltz in New York contributed to this report.Supported by The Mueller report won’t move the political needle. Trump supporters always knew he was a scam artist. By Roger Cohen Opinion Columnist “What about these notes?” President Donald Trump demands of Donald McGahn, then his White House counsel. “Why do you take notes? Lawyers don’t take notes. I never had a lawyer who took notes.” Of all the hallucinogenic moments chronicled in Robert Mueller’s report, this is one of the most dizzying. McGahn has been summoned to the White House in February 2018 because a livid Trump wants him to deny something truthful. McGahn explains that he can’t “correct” an accurate report in The Times that the president had instructed him to have Mueller “fired.” He takes notes because he’s a “real lawyer.” In fact McGahn, like many sucked into Trump’s corrupting White House orbit, takes notes in the same way people try to get themselves inoculated when they enter a zone of contagion. He wants a contemporaneous record of the truth to protect himself and — God knows — the Republic against Trump’s lies. He knows what an oath to uphold the Constitution means. If there is one overwhelming conclusion of the Mueller report it is that Trump, a.k.a. “boss man,” holds the law and truth in utter contempt. That this is unsurprising only makes it more appalling. “I’ve had a lot of great lawyers, like Roy Cohn,” Trump tells McGahn. “He did not take notes.” You don’t take notes when you want no record of your dereliction. Of course, Cohn is Trump’s role model: In New York, Cohn, McCarthyism’s ruthless enforcer, was disbarred for misconduct including dishonesty and fraud.  The Mueller report won’t move the political needle. Trump’s tens of millions of supporters know all this. They knew he was a scam artist before they voted for him in 2016. One of the reasons the report is devastating is that its portrait of an iniquitous presidency once again begs a question of all Americans: How did we put this man in the Oval Office? It’s a question for everyone. To deflect responsibility is too easy. The mirror Trump holds up is to America in its entirety, from Hudson Yards to the death of Main Street, from the Kardashians to the opioid crisis, from the financiers doing the rigging to those left out or left behind, from callow Republicans to compromised Democrats. The idea of America as a land of unbound self-invention is not new — F. Scott Fitzgerald captured that in “The Great Gatsby.” America is about forgetting, hence the extravagance of its creations. Still, Trump’s self-invention is remarkable for its scale and depravity — the way he grasped how hyper-individualism, the money culture, simmering anger, and the collapse of the line between truth and falsehood could be channeled into a victorious presidential campaign. How, in short, he could become the orange icon of the Age of the Unicorn. The great parable of our age is John Carreyrou’s “Bad Blood,” a remarkable account of how a 20-something Stanford dropout, Elizabeth Holmes, built a company called Theranos that fooled everyone with a supposedly transformational method to test blood. Holmes’s pinprick testing that would do away with the hypodermic needle never worked. It was fakery. There was no there there in Theranos, ever. There was only Holmes with her strange baritone parlaying zilch into a company once valued at an estimated $9 billion. She entranced a kind of American Who’s Who — including George Shultz, Jim Mattis and Henry Kissinger. Theranos was the ultimate “unicorn” — the term coined in 2013 by the venture capitalist Aileen Lee to describe the several dozen software start-ups launched since 2003 and valued at $1 billion or more, companies that avoid the scrutiny of going public while raising vast sums. Belief in the Theranos unicorn split families. Shultz clashed with his grandson, Tyler Shultz, who became a whistleblower after working at Theranos. It also crossed party lines: President Barack Obama appointed Holmes as a presidential ambassador for global entrepreneurship. Joe Biden called Theranos “the laboratory of the future.” Holmes spoke — with Chelsea Clinton beside her — at a 2016 fund-raiser for the Clinton campaign. Myth and manipulation turned Holmes into a billionaire. She incarnated America’s collective hallucination and corruption, its vertiginous loss of bearings. Theranos collapsed thanks to Carreyrou’s Wall Street Journal reporting. The Security and Exchange Commission charged Holmes with “massive fraud” (she settled), and the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of California indicted her on federal wire fraud and other charges.  So much for that unicorn. Brexit, another, endures for now. The unicorn, let’s recall, is a legendary creature believed over centuries to exert miraculous powers, particularly through its horn that — as amulet or powdered — was thought to work as a prophylactic or antidote. Leonardo da Vinci wrote that only “fair maidens” could appease the unicorn’s ferocity. The unicorn never existed. It was collective fantasy. That did not make belief in it less tenacious. We now have a full accounting of the unicorn-in-chief’s world. I fear he still has America in his thrall. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Roger Cohen has been a columnist for The Times since 2009. His columns appear Wednesday and Saturday. He joined The Times in 1990, and has served as a foreign correspondent and foreign editor.  @NYTimesCohen 

Supported by The Mueller report won’t move the political needle. Trump supporters always knew he was a scam artist. By Roger Cohen Opinion Columnist “What about these notes?” President Donald Trump demands of Donald McGahn, then his White House counsel. “Why do you take notes? Lawyers don’t take notes. I never had a lawyer who took notes.” Of all the hallucinogenic moments chronicled in Robert Mueller’s report, this is one of the most dizzying. McGahn has been summoned to the White House in February 2018 because a livid Trump wants him to deny something truthful. McGahn explains that he can’t “correct” an accurate report in The Times that the president had instructed him to have Mueller “fired.” He takes notes because he’s a “real lawyer.” In fact McGahn, like many sucked into Trump’s corrupting White House orbit, takes notes in the same way people try to get themselves inoculated when they enter a zone of contagion. He wants a contemporaneous record of the truth to protect himself and — God knows — the Republic against Trump’s lies. He knows what an oath to uphold the Constitution means. If there is one overwhelming conclusion of the Mueller report it is that Trump, a.k.a. “boss man,” holds the law and truth in utter contempt. That this is unsurprising only makes it more appalling. “I’ve had a lot of great lawyers, like Roy Cohn,” Trump tells McGahn. “He did not take notes.” You don’t take notes when you want no record of your dereliction. Of course, Cohn is Trump’s role model: In New York, Cohn, McCarthyism’s ruthless enforcer, was disbarred for misconduct including dishonesty and fraud.  The Mueller report won’t move the political needle. Trump’s tens of millions of supporters know all this. They knew he was a scam artist before they voted for him in 2016. One of the reasons the report is devastating is that its portrait of an iniquitous presidency once again begs a question of all Americans: How did we put this man in the Oval Office? It’s a question for everyone. To deflect responsibility is too easy. The mirror Trump holds up is to America in its entirety, from Hudson Yards to the death of Main Street, from the Kardashians to the opioid crisis, from the financiers doing the rigging to those left out or left behind, from callow Republicans to compromised Democrats. The idea of America as a land of unbound self-invention is not new — F. Scott Fitzgerald captured that in “The Great Gatsby.” America is about forgetting, hence the extravagance of its creations. Still, Trump’s self-invention is remarkable for its scale and depravity — the way he grasped how hyper-individualism, the money culture, simmering anger, and the collapse of the line between truth and falsehood could be channeled into a victorious presidential campaign. How, in short, he could become the orange icon of the Age of the Unicorn. The great parable of our age is John Carreyrou’s “Bad Blood,” a remarkable account of how a 20-something Stanford dropout, Elizabeth Holmes, built a company called Theranos that fooled everyone with a supposedly transformational method to test blood. Holmes’s pinprick testing that would do away with the hypodermic needle never worked. It was fakery. There was no there there in Theranos, ever. There was only Holmes with her strange baritone parlaying zilch into a company once valued at an estimated $9 billion. She entranced a kind of American Who’s Who — including George Shultz, Jim Mattis and Henry Kissinger. Theranos was the ultimate “unicorn” — the term coined in 2013 by the venture capitalist Aileen Lee to describe the several dozen software start-ups launched since 2003 and valued at $1 billion or more, companies that avoid the scrutiny of going public while raising vast sums. Belief in the Theranos unicorn split families. Shultz clashed with his grandson, Tyler Shultz, who became a whistleblower after working at Theranos. It also crossed party lines: President Barack Obama appointed Holmes as a presidential ambassador for global entrepreneurship. Joe Biden called Theranos “the laboratory of the future.” Holmes spoke — with Chelsea Clinton beside her — at a 2016 fund-raiser for the Clinton campaign. Myth and manipulation turned Holmes into a billionaire. She incarnated America’s collective hallucination and corruption, its vertiginous loss of bearings. Theranos collapsed thanks to Carreyrou’s Wall Street Journal reporting. The Security and Exchange Commission charged Holmes with “massive fraud” (she settled), and the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of California indicted her on federal wire fraud and other charges.  So much for that unicorn. Brexit, another, endures for now. The unicorn, let’s recall, is a legendary creature believed over centuries to exert miraculous powers, particularly through its horn that — as amulet or powdered — was thought to work as a prophylactic or antidote. Leonardo da Vinci wrote that only “fair maidens” could appease the unicorn’s ferocity. The unicorn never existed. It was collective fantasy. That did not make belief in it less tenacious. We now have a full accounting of the unicorn-in-chief’s world. I fear he still has America in his thrall. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Roger Cohen has been a columnist for The Times since 2009. His columns appear Wednesday and Saturday. He joined The Times in 1990, and has served as a foreign correspondent and foreign editor.  @NYTimesCohen Supported by By Laura M. Holson The report from the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, was finally released on Thursday and already numerous publishers were seeking to profit from it. “The wait is over,” promised Skyhorse, an independent publisher of “The Mueller Report: The Final Report of the Special Counsel in Donald Trump, Russia, and Collusion.” With a foreword by Alan Dershowitz, a Harvard Law School professor who has been critical of Mr. Mueller’s investigation and who has been praised by President Trump, it is already an Amazon best seller, ranked No. 1 in the “Biographies of Espionage” category. The paperback edition will be available next week, and the digital version will be available on Friday, a representative for the publisher said. Right behind it is “The Mueller Report,” an offering from The Washington Post and the Simon & Schuster imprint Scribner that promises “exclusive analysis” by members of the newspaper’s Pulitzer Prize-winning staff. Brian Belfiglio, vice president and director of publicity at Scribner, said that the imprint expects to publish an e-book on Friday, and that the trade paperback edition would be available on April 26 or earlier. Barnes & Noble is also offering free downloads of the report as a digital Nook book through its in-house publishing company, Sterling Publishing. And Melville House Books — an independent publisher of literary fiction, nonfiction and poetry — will soon be selling the report as a paperback and an e-book with no commentary or analysis. The findings from the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, are now available to the public. The redacted report details his two-year investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election. Never mind that the 448-page report on Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election can be read for free on the Department of Justice website. (It is also available on many news sites, including that of The New York Times, which is not publishing the report in book form, according to Danielle Rhoades Ha, a Times spokeswoman. She said The Times is planning to publish a 16-page special print section on Friday that will include summaries and highlights of the newspaper’s annotations of the report.) [Read excerpts from the Mueller report and analysis from Times reporters.] By contrast, various publishers are charging from $1.99 for an e-book to $12.99 for a paperback edition of the Mueller report. Books based on government documents are common, particularly in the aftermath of events that have captured the public’s interest and shaped the country’s history. In 1998, for example, The Post and the publisher PublicAffairs released a paperback version of “The Starr Report: The Findings of Independent Counsel Kenneth W. Starr on President Clinton and the Lewinsky Affair.” And in 2011, the National Archives and Nimble Books published “The Pentagon Papers,” the report commissioned by Secretary of Defense Robert S. McNamara in 1967 that led to the end of the Vietnam War. More recently, in 2014, Melville House, which is based in Brooklyn, published “The Senate Intelligence Committee Report on Torture: Committee Study of the Central Intelligence Agency’s Detention and Interrogation Program.” The report was based on more than six million internal documents from the C.I.A. that explore interrogation practices, prisoner deaths and agency practices. Senator Dianne Feinstein, a Democrat from California, wrote the foreword. Skyhorse listed Mr. Mueller as an author of its book, but don’t expect him to benefit. Under federal law, work prepared by the United States government is in the public domain. Heather Murphy contributed reporting.   

Supported by By Laura M. Holson The report from the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, was finally released on Thursday and already numerous publishers were seeking to profit from it. “The wait is over,” promised Skyhorse, an independent publisher of “The Mueller Report: The Final Report of the Special Counsel in Donald Trump, Russia, and Collusion.” With a foreword by Alan Dershowitz, a Harvard Law School professor who has been critical of Mr. Mueller’s investigation and who has been praised by President Trump, it is already an Amazon best seller, ranked No. 1 in the “Biographies of Espionage” category. The paperback edition will be available next week, and the digital version will be available on Friday, a representative for the publisher said. Right behind it is “The Mueller Report,” an offering from The Washington Post and the Simon & Schuster imprint Scribner that promises “exclusive analysis” by members of the newspaper’s Pulitzer Prize-winning staff. Brian Belfiglio, vice president and director of publicity at Scribner, said that the imprint expects to publish an e-book on Friday, and that the trade paperback edition would be available on April 26 or earlier. Barnes & Noble is also offering free downloads of the report as a digital Nook book through its in-house publishing company, Sterling Publishing. And Melville House Books — an independent publisher of literary fiction, nonfiction and poetry — will soon be selling the report as a paperback and an e-book with no commentary or analysis. The findings from the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, are now available to the public. The redacted report details his two-year investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election. Never mind that the 448-page report on Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election can be read for free on the Department of Justice website. (It is also available on many news sites, including that of The New York Times, which is not publishing the report in book form, according to Danielle Rhoades Ha, a Times spokeswoman. She said The Times is planning to publish a 16-page special print section on Friday that will include summaries and highlights of the newspaper’s annotations of the report.) [Read excerpts from the Mueller report and analysis from Times reporters.] By contrast, various publishers are charging from $1.99 for an e-book to $12.99 for a paperback edition of the Mueller report. Books based on government documents are common, particularly in the aftermath of events that have captured the public’s interest and shaped the country’s history. In 1998, for example, The Post and the publisher PublicAffairs released a paperback version of “The Starr Report: The Findings of Independent Counsel Kenneth W. Starr on President Clinton and the Lewinsky Affair.” And in 2011, the National Archives and Nimble Books published “The Pentagon Papers,” the report commissioned by Secretary of Defense Robert S. McNamara in 1967 that led to the end of the Vietnam War. More recently, in 2014, Melville House, which is based in Brooklyn, published “The Senate Intelligence Committee Report on Torture: Committee Study of the Central Intelligence Agency’s Detention and Interrogation Program.” The report was based on more than six million internal documents from the C.I.A. that explore interrogation practices, prisoner deaths and agency practices. Senator Dianne Feinstein, a Democrat from California, wrote the foreword. Skyhorse listed Mr. Mueller as an author of its book, but don’t expect him to benefit. Under federal law, work prepared by the United States government is in the public domain. Heather Murphy contributed reporting.   Supported by Congress needs to be able to make its own assessment of the facts — and so do we. By Noah Bookbinder Mr. Bookbinder is the executive director of Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington. When President Trump fired James Comey, the director of the F.B.I., on May 9, 2017, many Americans were justifiably worried that investigators would never be permitted to get to the bottom of Russia’s attack on our 2016 election and any potential involvement of Mr. Trump’s associates. Despite continued attempts by the president to impede the investigation, Robert Mueller, the special counsel, has, in under two years, indicted dozens of Russians and Americans and submitted a report for review to Attorney General William Barr. Now that Mr. Mueller’s investigation is complete (or nearly complete), the Department of Justice must formally reveal its findings to Congress and the American people, which have separate and enormously consequential responsibilities of their own. These responsibilities cannot be carried out fully without direct access to the material that is in the report. Understanding this, the House of Representatives has already unanimously passed a resolution calling for the report’s release, and in recent polling vast majorities of Americans have agreed with this approach. The report that Mr. Mueller submitted to Mr. Barr for review should be viewed in combination with the remarkable assertions and conclusions that the special counsel has already reached in the form of indictments and guilty pleas of Trump associates and Russian nationals and organizations.  Mr. Mueller and his team have already established that the Russian government engaged in a multipronged attack on our democracy. To review: Russian military intelligence officers hacked computers, networks and email accounts associated with the Hillary Clinton campaign and the Democratic Party, and then released hacked material via WikiLeaks. Separately, Russians used fraudulent social media accounts to directly influence American opinions about the 2016 election. As the nation’s intelligence agencies and the Senate Intelligence Committee have separately concluded, these efforts were calculated to help Mr. Trump’s candidacy for president and to denigrate his opponent’s. We also know that senior members of the Trump campaign, including the president’s son, son-in-law and campaign chairman, met with Russians who promised “dirt” on Mrs. Clinton. If there was in fact “no collusion,” as the president so often claims, it apparently was not for lack of trying. The special counsel has secured guilty pleas on serious federal felony charges from Trump associates, including Mr. Trump’s campaign chairman, Paul Manafort; the deputy campaign chairman, Rick Gates; a former national security adviser, Michael Flynn; a Trump campaign foreign policy adviser, George Papadopoulos; and Mr. Trump’s former personal lawyer, Michael Cohen. What do all these men have in common? They lied to investigators about the nature of their relationships with foreign powers, and they worked for the Trump campaign. And that’s before we even start talking about Roger Stone. Regardless of whether efforts by Trump associates to coordinate with or benefit from interference by Russia or WikiLeaks were criminal, the fact that Mr. Trump and his campaign strategists sought to benefit from a foreign adversary’s efforts to undermine our democracy is one of the greatest breaches of public trust our country has ever witnessed. If Mr. Mueller ultimately determined that indicting the president’s associates for this conduct was not appropriate, that does not mean that there should not be consequences for this outrageous breach of trust. Though these and other findings have already been made public, many key questions remain. Chief among these is whether the special counsel found evidence that Mr. Trump obstructed justice by engaging in a pattern of conduct calculated to impede investigations of his campaign and his administration, including by firing Mr. Comey; attempting to force out the previous attorney general, Jeff Sessions, and pushing Mr. Sessions to reverse his recusal from the Russia inquiry; and potentially by dangling pardons to key defendants. Congress and the American people deserve to know the truth about the facts and circumstances of the president’s possibly obstructive acts. Obstruction of an investigation is not only criminal conduct, but also an affront to our system of government and the faith that the American people have in it. Equally important the report should begin to answer the crucial question that hangs over the entire Trump presidency: What did the president know and when did he know it? It is possible, for example, that Mr. Mueller may have uncovered evidence that Mr. Trump knew in advance of the numerous interactions between high-level campaign officials and Russian operatives, or that he knew of the plan to disseminate the hacked emails at strategically important times. This type of explosive revelation could indicate that the president was intentionally helping a malicious foreign power undermine our democracy. If the president knew about this conduct — and continued to protect and reward high-level intermediaries like Mr. Flynn and Mr. Manafort when he assumed office — the public could rightfully question his fitness to continue to serve as president. The report may also shed light on why the special counsel has apparently declined to indict Mr. Trump. That it is Department of Justice policy not to indict a sitting president is well known. Given that, Mr. Mueller may have decided that some of Mr. Trump’s conduct, while deeply concerning, unacceptable or even potentially illegal, did not rise to the level of a chargeable offense in the presidential context. In such circumstances, the Justice Department is functionally deferring to Congress’s primary jurisdiction over presidential accountability and should transmit to Congress whatever materials are relevant, particularly to potential abuses of power. That is precisely why the entire report must be made available not only to the public’s representatives in Congress, but also to the public as a whole. The responsibility for holding to account any bad actors identified in the report, President Trump included, now falls on the American people and Congress. Without direct access to Mr. Mueller’s full report, Congress cannot responsibly decide whether to exercise its powers of oversight or impeachment, and the American people will be unable to make a fully informed decision about whether Mr. Trump can be trusted with the high office he occupies. The report, and the findings and evidence supporting it, must be released. Noah Bookbinder (@NoahBookbinder) is the executive director of Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported by Congress needs to be able to make its own assessment of the facts — and so do we. By Noah Bookbinder Mr. Bookbinder is the executive director of Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington. When President Trump fired James Comey, the director of the F.B.I., on May 9, 2017, many Americans were justifiably worried that investigators would never be permitted to get to the bottom of Russia’s attack on our 2016 election and any potential involvement of Mr. Trump’s associates. Despite continued attempts by the president to impede the investigation, Robert Mueller, the special counsel, has, in under two years, indicted dozens of Russians and Americans and submitted a report for review to Attorney General William Barr. Now that Mr. Mueller’s investigation is complete (or nearly complete), the Department of Justice must formally reveal its findings to Congress and the American people, which have separate and enormously consequential responsibilities of their own. These responsibilities cannot be carried out fully without direct access to the material that is in the report. Understanding this, the House of Representatives has already unanimously passed a resolution calling for the report’s release, and in recent polling vast majorities of Americans have agreed with this approach. The report that Mr. Mueller submitted to Mr. Barr for review should be viewed in combination with the remarkable assertions and conclusions that the special counsel has already reached in the form of indictments and guilty pleas of Trump associates and Russian nationals and organizations.  Mr. Mueller and his team have already established that the Russian government engaged in a multipronged attack on our democracy. To review: Russian military intelligence officers hacked computers, networks and email accounts associated with the Hillary Clinton campaign and the Democratic Party, and then released hacked material via WikiLeaks. Separately, Russians used fraudulent social media accounts to directly influence American opinions about the 2016 election. As the nation’s intelligence agencies and the Senate Intelligence Committee have separately concluded, these efforts were calculated to help Mr. Trump’s candidacy for president and to denigrate his opponent’s. We also know that senior members of the Trump campaign, including the president’s son, son-in-law and campaign chairman, met with Russians who promised “dirt” on Mrs. Clinton. If there was in fact “no collusion,” as the president so often claims, it apparently was not for lack of trying. The special counsel has secured guilty pleas on serious federal felony charges from Trump associates, including Mr. Trump’s campaign chairman, Paul Manafort; the deputy campaign chairman, Rick Gates; a former national security adviser, Michael Flynn; a Trump campaign foreign policy adviser, George Papadopoulos; and Mr. Trump’s former personal lawyer, Michael Cohen. What do all these men have in common? They lied to investigators about the nature of their relationships with foreign powers, and they worked for the Trump campaign. And that’s before we even start talking about Roger Stone. Regardless of whether efforts by Trump associates to coordinate with or benefit from interference by Russia or WikiLeaks were criminal, the fact that Mr. Trump and his campaign strategists sought to benefit from a foreign adversary’s efforts to undermine our democracy is one of the greatest breaches of public trust our country has ever witnessed. If Mr. Mueller ultimately determined that indicting the president’s associates for this conduct was not appropriate, that does not mean that there should not be consequences for this outrageous breach of trust. Though these and other findings have already been made public, many key questions remain. Chief among these is whether the special counsel found evidence that Mr. Trump obstructed justice by engaging in a pattern of conduct calculated to impede investigations of his campaign and his administration, including by firing Mr. Comey; attempting to force out the previous attorney general, Jeff Sessions, and pushing Mr. Sessions to reverse his recusal from the Russia inquiry; and potentially by dangling pardons to key defendants. Congress and the American people deserve to know the truth about the facts and circumstances of the president’s possibly obstructive acts. Obstruction of an investigation is not only criminal conduct, but also an affront to our system of government and the faith that the American people have in it. Equally important the report should begin to answer the crucial question that hangs over the entire Trump presidency: What did the president know and when did he know it? It is possible, for example, that Mr. Mueller may have uncovered evidence that Mr. Trump knew in advance of the numerous interactions between high-level campaign officials and Russian operatives, or that he knew of the plan to disseminate the hacked emails at strategically important times. This type of explosive revelation could indicate that the president was intentionally helping a malicious foreign power undermine our democracy. If the president knew about this conduct — and continued to protect and reward high-level intermediaries like Mr. Flynn and Mr. Manafort when he assumed office — the public could rightfully question his fitness to continue to serve as president. The report may also shed light on why the special counsel has apparently declined to indict Mr. Trump. That it is Department of Justice policy not to indict a sitting president is well known. Given that, Mr. Mueller may have decided that some of Mr. Trump’s conduct, while deeply concerning, unacceptable or even potentially illegal, did not rise to the level of a chargeable offense in the presidential context. In such circumstances, the Justice Department is functionally deferring to Congress’s primary jurisdiction over presidential accountability and should transmit to Congress whatever materials are relevant, particularly to potential abuses of power. That is precisely why the entire report must be made available not only to the public’s representatives in Congress, but also to the public as a whole. The responsibility for holding to account any bad actors identified in the report, President Trump included, now falls on the American people and Congress. Without direct access to Mr. Mueller’s full report, Congress cannot responsibly decide whether to exercise its powers of oversight or impeachment, and the American people will be unable to make a fully informed decision about whether Mr. Trump can be trusted with the high office he occupies. The report, and the findings and evidence supporting it, must be released. Noah Bookbinder (@NoahBookbinder) is the executive director of Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Supported by By Katie Benner WASHINGTON — The Justice Department will soon receive a final accounting from Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, of his nearly two-year investigation into how Russia influenced the 2016 election, whether the Trump campaign participated in those efforts and whether President Trump obstructed justice. But there is no guarantee that the public will ever see that full report. The special counsel regulations say that Mr. Mueller must submit a confidential report outlining his prosecutorial decisions to the attorney general, William P. Barr, and that the attorney general must then send a summary of that work to Congress. The regulations leave Mr. Barr considerable flexibility as to how much detail he provides to Congress and the public, discretion that was built into the regulations in response to the independent counsel Ken Starr’s decision to give Congress a lengthy — and, critics said, salacious — report on his investigation into President Bill Clinton’s sexual relationship with a young White House intern. Once the special counsel’s office delivers its report and closes its doors, the work of the Justice Department and Congress to inform the public of Mr. Mueller’s findings begins. While Mr. Barr must tell lawmakers why the special counsel’s work concluded, he does not have a legal obligation to give them the full details of Mr. Mueller’s report. Although there have been high-profile exceptions, the Justice Department generally does not publish derogatory information about individuals not charged with crimes. As a result, it is not clear how much information, if any, Mr. Barr would choose to include about Mr. Trump and other key figures in the investigation if there are no charges against them. Congress, for its part, is unlikely to be satisfied with anything short of a full copy of Mr. Mueller’s work. Democrats have expressed concern that Mr. Barr harbors a pro-Trump bias, in part due to his expansive view of executive power and also because, before being nominated as attorney general, he wrote a 19-page memo arguing that Mr. Trump’s decision to fire James B. Comey as F.B.I. director was not an act of obstruction. Democratic lawmakers are now debating how best to get the information that they believe must be shared with Congress, and by extension the public. “Barr should release the report with minimal redactions,” Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, said in a statement this month. “The subjects of the investigations get to the very root of our democracy, and to withhold it from the American people would be absolutely unacceptable.” Mr. Barr said during his confirmation hearings that he would be as transparent as possible within the scope of the special counsel rules. The Justice Department will comb Mr. Mueller’s report for classified information and for grand jury testimony that cannot be shared in whatever summary Mr. Barr provides to Congress. “Barr has to make sure that the investigators’ sources and methods are not going to be compromised and that grand jury information is protected,” said Neal Katyal, a former department official who wrote the special counsel rules. Justice Department lawyers will have to balance the value of disclosing information that bolsters the public’s faith in the department’s integrity with the risk of compromising national security or other sensitive information. Depending on the length of the report, the process could take days or more than a week. The special counsel regulations, created in 1999, say that Mr. Barr must provide a report to the senior Republicans and Democrats on the House and Senate Judiciary Committees. The report must explain why Mr. Mueller’s work concluded and list any times the attorney general told the special counsel’s office it could not take a proposed action. The regulations are not specific about how much detail Mr. Barr must provide, stating that the attorney general could publicly release the report if he determines it is in the public interest. Mr. Barr has said he will hew closely to the rules, which give him the option of sharing only a bare-bones accounting of the Mueller report. Democrats in Congress have said they want to see the whole thing. “Regulations governing Special Counsel Mueller’s investigation do not prohibit Attorney General Barr from disclosing Mueller’s final report and investigative materials to Congress,” Ms. Feinstein said in a statement on Friday, “and I repeat my call for the attorney general to provide the report unedited once it has been provided to him.” Some of the key questions in the special counsel’s investigation concern whether Mr. Trump was working on behalf of Russia and whether he obstructed justice, serious allegations that could result in criminal charges. A longstanding Justice Department opinion says that a sitting president cannot be criminally indicted, guidance that makes it unlikely that Mr. Mueller will charge Mr. Trump. Because of the department’s practice of not making derogatory statements about people who are not charged with crimes, Mr. Barr would have cover, if he chose to use it, to omit any damning information that Mr. Mueller might transmit to him about Mr. Trump. Mr. Comey caused a public outcry in the summer of 2016 when he said after an investigation that “no reasonable prosecutor” would charge Hillary Clinton, but then publicly excoriated her use of a private email server. But Mr. Katyal said there was an important difference between Mr. Comey’s handling of the Clinton investigation and the choice that Mr. Barr faces: Unlike Mrs. Clinton, he said, Mr. Trump controls the Justice Department, essentially leaving Congress to hold him accountable for misdeeds. Mr. Barr’s summary could act as the road map Congress needs to fulfill its oversight role and weigh the possibility of impeachment. The question of how or whether the department would handle a referral to Congress for impeachment remains unclear. If Mr. Mueller found that the president committed a grave offense and wants Congress and the world to know, he could seek an indictment of the president. If Mr. Barr then chose to stick with the department’s opinion that a sitting president cannot be indicted, he would have to inform Congress of that decision, because the special counsel rules require the attorney general to tell Congress of any time that he denied a proposed action by the special counsel and why. “The special counsel regulations grapple with how to police high-level executive branch wrongdoing,” Mr. Katyal said. “If a sitting president can’t be indicted, then Congress must decide whether it must act, and it would need more information from Mr. Barr to make that decision.” If lawmakers are not satisfied by the summary that Mr. Barr provides, they can begin the process of extracting more information from the Justice Department by requesting documents and subpoenaing information, including the Mueller report itself. Congress can also call witnesses, including Mr. Mueller, to testify in a public hearing or a private deposition. And lawmakers can use their bully pulpits to publicly pressure Mr. Barr for more information, tying the Justice Department up in hearings and subpoena fights that last for the rest of Mr. Trump’s time in office. Democratic leaders are already laying the groundwork to obtain as much information about the Mueller report as possible, saying that the department has established a precedent of giving Congress sensitive information. “In other closed and pending high-profile cases alleging wrongdoing by public officials, both the department and the F.B.I. have produced substantial amounts of investigative material, including classified and law enforcement sensitive information,” Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, and other Democratic committee leaders said in a letter to Mr. Barr on Friday. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.   

Supported by By Katie Benner WASHINGTON — The Justice Department will soon receive a final accounting from Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, of his nearly two-year investigation into how Russia influenced the 2016 election, whether the Trump campaign participated in those efforts and whether President Trump obstructed justice. But there is no guarantee that the public will ever see that full report. The special counsel regulations say that Mr. Mueller must submit a confidential report outlining his prosecutorial decisions to the attorney general, William P. Barr, and that the attorney general must then send a summary of that work to Congress. The regulations leave Mr. Barr considerable flexibility as to how much detail he provides to Congress and the public, discretion that was built into the regulations in response to the independent counsel Ken Starr’s decision to give Congress a lengthy — and, critics said, salacious — report on his investigation into President Bill Clinton’s sexual relationship with a young White House intern. Once the special counsel’s office delivers its report and closes its doors, the work of the Justice Department and Congress to inform the public of Mr. Mueller’s findings begins. While Mr. Barr must tell lawmakers why the special counsel’s work concluded, he does not have a legal obligation to give them the full details of Mr. Mueller’s report. Although there have been high-profile exceptions, the Justice Department generally does not publish derogatory information about individuals not charged with crimes. As a result, it is not clear how much information, if any, Mr. Barr would choose to include about Mr. Trump and other key figures in the investigation if there are no charges against them. Congress, for its part, is unlikely to be satisfied with anything short of a full copy of Mr. Mueller’s work. Democrats have expressed concern that Mr. Barr harbors a pro-Trump bias, in part due to his expansive view of executive power and also because, before being nominated as attorney general, he wrote a 19-page memo arguing that Mr. Trump’s decision to fire James B. Comey as F.B.I. director was not an act of obstruction. Democratic lawmakers are now debating how best to get the information that they believe must be shared with Congress, and by extension the public. “Barr should release the report with minimal redactions,” Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, said in a statement this month. “The subjects of the investigations get to the very root of our democracy, and to withhold it from the American people would be absolutely unacceptable.” Mr. Barr said during his confirmation hearings that he would be as transparent as possible within the scope of the special counsel rules. The Justice Department will comb Mr. Mueller’s report for classified information and for grand jury testimony that cannot be shared in whatever summary Mr. Barr provides to Congress. “Barr has to make sure that the investigators’ sources and methods are not going to be compromised and that grand jury information is protected,” said Neal Katyal, a former department official who wrote the special counsel rules. Justice Department lawyers will have to balance the value of disclosing information that bolsters the public’s faith in the department’s integrity with the risk of compromising national security or other sensitive information. Depending on the length of the report, the process could take days or more than a week. The special counsel regulations, created in 1999, say that Mr. Barr must provide a report to the senior Republicans and Democrats on the House and Senate Judiciary Committees. The report must explain why Mr. Mueller’s work concluded and list any times the attorney general told the special counsel’s office it could not take a proposed action. The regulations are not specific about how much detail Mr. Barr must provide, stating that the attorney general could publicly release the report if he determines it is in the public interest. Mr. Barr has said he will hew closely to the rules, which give him the option of sharing only a bare-bones accounting of the Mueller report. Democrats in Congress have said they want to see the whole thing. “Regulations governing Special Counsel Mueller’s investigation do not prohibit Attorney General Barr from disclosing Mueller’s final report and investigative materials to Congress,” Ms. Feinstein said in a statement on Friday, “and I repeat my call for the attorney general to provide the report unedited once it has been provided to him.” Some of the key questions in the special counsel’s investigation concern whether Mr. Trump was working on behalf of Russia and whether he obstructed justice, serious allegations that could result in criminal charges. A longstanding Justice Department opinion says that a sitting president cannot be criminally indicted, guidance that makes it unlikely that Mr. Mueller will charge Mr. Trump. Because of the department’s practice of not making derogatory statements about people who are not charged with crimes, Mr. Barr would have cover, if he chose to use it, to omit any damning information that Mr. Mueller might transmit to him about Mr. Trump. Mr. Comey caused a public outcry in the summer of 2016 when he said after an investigation that “no reasonable prosecutor” would charge Hillary Clinton, but then publicly excoriated her use of a private email server. But Mr. Katyal said there was an important difference between Mr. Comey’s handling of the Clinton investigation and the choice that Mr. Barr faces: Unlike Mrs. Clinton, he said, Mr. Trump controls the Justice Department, essentially leaving Congress to hold him accountable for misdeeds. Mr. Barr’s summary could act as the road map Congress needs to fulfill its oversight role and weigh the possibility of impeachment. The question of how or whether the department would handle a referral to Congress for impeachment remains unclear. If Mr. Mueller found that the president committed a grave offense and wants Congress and the world to know, he could seek an indictment of the president. If Mr. Barr then chose to stick with the department’s opinion that a sitting president cannot be indicted, he would have to inform Congress of that decision, because the special counsel rules require the attorney general to tell Congress of any time that he denied a proposed action by the special counsel and why. “The special counsel regulations grapple with how to police high-level executive branch wrongdoing,” Mr. Katyal said. “If a sitting president can’t be indicted, then Congress must decide whether it must act, and it would need more information from Mr. Barr to make that decision.” If lawmakers are not satisfied by the summary that Mr. Barr provides, they can begin the process of extracting more information from the Justice Department by requesting documents and subpoenaing information, including the Mueller report itself. Congress can also call witnesses, including Mr. Mueller, to testify in a public hearing or a private deposition. And lawmakers can use their bully pulpits to publicly pressure Mr. Barr for more information, tying the Justice Department up in hearings and subpoena fights that last for the rest of Mr. Trump’s time in office. Democratic leaders are already laying the groundwork to obtain as much information about the Mueller report as possible, saying that the department has established a precedent of giving Congress sensitive information. “In other closed and pending high-profile cases alleging wrongdoing by public officials, both the department and the F.B.I. have produced substantial amounts of investigative material, including classified and law enforcement sensitive information,” Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, and other Democratic committee leaders said in a letter to Mr. Barr on Friday. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.   Supported by By Sharon LaFraniere and Katie Benner WASHINGTON — The special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, on Friday delivered a report on his inquiry into Russian interference in the 2016 election to Attorney General William P. Barr, bringing to a close an investigation that has consumed the nation and cast a shadow over President Trump for nearly two years. Mr. Barr told congressional leaders in a letter that he may brief them on the special counsel’s “principal conclusions” as early as this weekend, a surprisingly fast turnaround for a report anticipated for months. The attorney general said he “remained committed to as much transparency as possible.” In an apparent endorsement of an investigation that Mr. Trump has relentlessly attacked as a “witch hunt,” Mr. Barr said Justice Department officials never had to intervene to keep Mr. Mueller from taking an inappropriate or unwarranted step. The department’s regulations would have required Mr. Barr to inform the leaders of the House and Senate Judiciary committees about any such interventions in his letter. A senior Justice Department official said that Mr. Mueller would not recommend new indictments, a statement aimed at ending speculation that Mr. Trump or other key figures might be charged down the line. With department officials emphasizing that Mr. Mueller’s inquiry was over and his office closing, the question for both Mr. Trump’s critics and defenders was whether the prosecutors condemned the president’s behavior in their report, exonerated him — or neither. The president’s lawyers were already girding for a possible fight over whether they could assert executive privilege to keep parts of the report secret. [Update: Read Attorney General William Barr’s summary of the Mueller Report.] Since Mr. Mueller’s appointment in May 2017, his team has focused on how Russian operatives sought to sway the outcome of the 2016 presidential race and whether anyone tied to the Trump campaign, wittingly or unwittingly, cooperated with them. While the inquiry, started months earlier by the F.B.I., unearthed a far-ranging Russian influence operation, no public evidence emerged that the president or his aides illegally assisted it. Nonetheless, the damage to Mr. Trump and those in his circle has been extensive. A half-dozen former Trump aides were indicted or convicted of crimes, mostly for lying to federal investigators or Congress. Others remain under investigation in cases that Mr. Mueller’s office handed off to federal prosecutors in New York and elsewhere. Dozens of Russian intelligence officers or citizens, along with three Russian companies, were charged in cases that are likely to languish in court because the defendants cannot be extradited to the United States. Republicans immediately seized upon the news that no more indictments are expected as a vindication of Mr. Trump and his campaign. Those reports “confirm what we’ve known all along: There was never any collusion with Russia,” Representative Steve Scalise of Louisiana, the second-highest-ranking House Republican, said in a statement. Democrats, including some of those hoping to supplant Mr. Trump in the White House in the 2020 election, insisted that Mr. Mueller’s full report be made public, including the underlying evidence. In a joint statement, Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California and Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the top Senate Democrat, warned Mr. Barr not to allow the White House a “sneak preview” of the document. “The White House must not be allowed to interfere in decisions about what parts of those findings or evidence are made public,” they said. Not since Watergate has a special prosecutor’s inquiry so mesmerized the American public. Polls have shown that most Americans want to know its findings, and the House unanimously passed a nonbinding resolution to publicize the report. Mr. Barr’s letter said he would decide what to release after consulting with Mr. Mueller and Rod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general who has overseen his investigation. Justice Department officials emphasized that the White House had been kept at a distance. Only a handful of law enforcement officials have seen the report, said Kerri Kupec, a department spokeswoman. More than two years of criminal indictments and steady revelations about Trump campaign contacts with Russians reveal the scope of the special counsel investigation. Although a White House lawyer was notified that Mr. Mueller had delivered it to Mr. Barr, no White House official has seen the report or been briefed on it, according to Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary. “The next steps are up to Attorney General Barr, and we look forward to the process taking its course,” she said. Rudolph W. Giuliani, one of the president’s personal lawyers, said he planned to remain in Washington over the weekend in part because Mr. Barr might update Congress on Mr. Mueller’s findings. He sidestepped a question about whether the president’s lawyers were seeking to review the report before any of it becomes public. White House lawyers have been preparing for the possibility they may need to argue some material is protected by executive privilege, especially if the report discusses whether the president’s interactions with his top aides or legal advisers are evidence of obstruction of justice. Even though Mr. Mueller’s report is complete, some aspects of his inquiry remain active and may be overseen by the same prosecutors once they are reassigned to their old jobs in the Justice Department. For instance, recently filed court documents suggest that investigators are still examining why the former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort turned over campaign polling data in 2016 to a Russian associate who prosecutors said was tied to Russian intelligence. Mr. Mueller looked extensively at whether Mr. Trump obstructed justice to protect himself or his associates. But despite months of negotiations, prosecutors were unable to personally interview the president. Mr. Trump’s lawyers insisted that he respond only to written questions from the special counsel. Even though under current Justice Department policy, a sitting president cannot be indicted, Mr. Trump’s lawyers worried that his responses in an oral interview could bring political repercussions, including impeachment, or put him in legal jeopardy once he is out of office. transcript Hosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Clare Toeniskoetter, Annie Brown and Theo Balcomb, and edited by Lisa Tobin, with help from Paige Cowett The Mueller report has been sent to the attorney general. Here’s a look at what this means and what comes next. michael barbaro So it’s here. michael schmidt Well, it’s in the hands of Bill Barr. It’s not here in the sense that we can publicly consume it and see what Bob Mueller found. It has just moved from one pocket, which we can’t see into, into another pocket that we can’t see into. michael barbaro But it has moved pockets, at least, which is something. Something we’ve been waiting two years for. michael schmidt Correct. Bob Mueller is done with his investigation. michael barbaro From The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is a special episode of “The Daily.” Today: The Mueller report has been sent to the attorney general. It’s Friday afternoon, March 22. So Mike, talk me through your day today. michael schmidt So knowing it was going to be a big day, I turned on the recorder as soon as I left the house this morning and made my way into the office to hurry up and wait. [music]  michael schmidt All right. 10:05 a.m. michael schmidt I left my house at 10:00 a.m. michael schmidt We expect the report to be finished today around noon. michael schmidt Walking down 17th Street, heading to the office. michael schmidt I got a call from the office from my editor wanting to know what I knew. Told her I knew nothing. Last thing an editor wants to hear — nothing new. michael schmidt Not a ton of people on the streets. speaker Excuse me. michael schmidt Yes? speaker Do you know where the Jamaican Embassy is? michael schmidt I do not, I’m sorry. Do you know what the address is? michael schmidt Was stopped by a woman who couldn’t find the Jamaican embassy. michael schmidt O.K., so you’re going to want to go this way. Go to DuPont Circle, and make a right. Just keep on following that trail. speaker Oh, O.K., so I’m going the wrong way. michael schmidt Well, we’re all going the wrong way. michael schmidt Come up to Massachusetts Avenue. michael schmidt Cold March day. Fairly cold here in Washington. 45 degrees. michael schmidt Just had a normal sort of walk into the office. michael schmidt [HUMMING] Half a block away, coming up to 17th — michael barbaro It doesn’t seem like you’re in a big hurry to get to the office. michael schmidt Well, all the work has been done. We know what’s coming. michael schmidt How are you? speaker Hey, Mike. michael schmidt What’s going on? michael schmidt So come into the building. michael schmidt Big day? No? Not a big day? All right. michael schmidt Get on the elevator. elevator voice announcer Floor seven. michael schmidt Walk into the office. And everyone wants to know — speaker 1 What do you got? What do you got? speaker 2 Chasing the report. michael schmidt When’s it going to happen? speaker This is the question I ask him every five — michael schmidt Days or — speaker Days or weeks. michael schmidt Days or weeks? michael schmidt The whole apparatus of The New York Times is jacked up for this moment. michael schmidt We got Nick here. We’re all ready. speaker Gang’s all here. michael schmidt There’s been a lot of time and planning that’s gone into this. There’s a lot of stories that have been written that are ready to go. speaker Does that seem right? michael schmidt Yep. speaker O.K. michael schmidt Everyone’s sitting around waiting, and they want answers. dean baquet So what’s the latest? michael schmidt Dean Baquet, our executive editor, calls down to Washington to ask Elisabeth Bumiller, our bureau chief, what do you know? elisabeth bumiller You’re not so sure about it? michael schmidt I’m less sure about the timing, but — michael schmidt Elizabeth calls me over to her desk, puts him on speakerphone. Mikey, what do you know? dean baquet Do you know much of a heads-up we may or may not get? michael schmidt My guess is not a lot because I don’t know what there is to get a heads-up on. michael schmidt And I said, I don’t know. michael barbaro [LAUGHS] You tell them that you don’t know. michael schmidt We don’t know! dean baquet O.K. elisabeth bumiller That’s what we got. michael schmidt So that’s all we got. elisabeth bumiller And we have stories ready. Once we get the word from Justice, we just push a button. michael schmidt All the work is done. elisabeth bumiller We’re just tourists hanging around. michael schmidt We’re sort of lemmings at this point. michael schmidt So it’s sort of just having the same unsatisfying conversation with different people throughout the office for several hours while eating doughnuts. michael barbaro [LAUGHS] michael schmidt And then it happens. archived recording The special counsel investigation is over. Special Counsel Robert Mueller has concluded his investigation into Russian election interference and possible coordination with associates of President Donald Trump. That report has been submitted. Now the question is, what happens to it? How much gets released and when? That is up to the new attorney general, Bill Barr. michael barbaro So what do we know at this stage? It is Friday afternoon. What’s our understanding? michael schmidt Our understanding is that the attorney general and his deputies now have a long weekend of reading ahead of them. They have to go through the report, see what’s there, digest it, and then figure out what to do with it. How much of it should be made public, how much of it should be given to Congress, and how much of it should remain secret. michael barbaro Is that really all we know at this point? Is there anything about how this unfolded that tells us anything about the report or what Mueller has found, if he’s decided to bring any charges against any figure in the White House, or how he’s thinking about this? michael schmidt We just know that Mueller is done. There are no more individuals that will be charged by the special counsel’s office in the investigation. If anyone else has gotten caught up in this, they will be indicted by other U.S. attorneys across the country who have absorbed investigations from the special counsel’s office. michael barbaro So the version of the report that will go to Congress and be seen by the public is the version that the attorney general has had a chance to go through and decide which parts should be seen by the larger world and which should not. And that’s still going to take a while for him to figure out. michael schmidt Correct. And it’s a very difficult process, because if there is criminality in regards to the president, it’s a very tricky issue to navigate. The Justice Department has a policy that says the president can’t be indicted. But if the president can’t be indicted, Congress should deal with that behavior. How do you give that information to Congress? It’s not a snap decision you can make — like, O.K., Mueller’s done, this is what he found. Let’s put this in another box and send it to Congress. It’s far trickier. michael barbaro So how does the A.G. make the decision about what to include and what not to include in this report? michael schmidt Barr is in this incredibly difficult spot, because he has to figure out how much information to share with the public and Congress in a way that is enough to leave people convinced that this investigation was done thoroughly and based on following the facts. But he has to protect the president from disclosures about him that the public may be interested in, that his political enemies may want to know, but that has no bearing on the actual criminal investigation that was done. michael barbaro And does how the attorney general handles that balance depend, in your mind, Mike, on what the report from Mueller finds and says and recommends? michael schmidt Yes. If Mueller says the president didn’t break the law, then Barr has to figure out how much information to give to Congress so that Congress takes those findings seriously. The problem is Barr is in a very difficult spot politically, because the Democrats have already concluded the president did something wrong. So if Barr learns from Mueller that there’s no criminality on the president, how does Barr then win over those Democrats and show them that Mueller truly made a decision based on the facts? How much of what the investigation found does he have to give to the Hill? In a normal criminal investigation, all of that information would not become public because the Justice Department would want to protect the individual who they have found did not commit a crime. But this situation is different, because a lot of people do think the president committed a crime. So how do you show the Democrats and the rest of the country that hey, look, this is what Mueller found. He only found X, Y, and Z. And if we wanted to make a case, he would have needed to have uncovered these other things, which he did not. And that’s why we’re confident with his findings. michael barbaro And on the other hand, if Mueller does find criminality and perhaps recommend charges against the president, how does Barr have to proceed? michael schmidt Well, how much of the evidence that Mueller uncovered should go to Congress? What should be told to Congress? Should Congress be told explicitly, look, Mueller believes the president violated these laws, and here’s the evidence to back it up? But what if some of that evidence has been obtained from a grand jury? The Justice Department can’t just hand over grand jury information to Congress. What if the information is classified? They’re not going to want to hand over classified information to Congress. They think Congress leaks like a sieve. michael barbaro Is it safe to say though, Mike, that if criminality is found by Mueller, Congress and the public will see more of the Muller report than if that is not found? michael schmidt Maybe. Maybe. But look, this is a highly unusual situation. The person who runs the executive branch, the president, has just been under investigation by folks inside of his own branch for the past 22 months. Very awkward situation. michael barbaro And the person making the decision about what we all will learn about that investigation is a direct appointee of that president. michael schmidt Correct. Has the job because the president put him there. So the perception here is one where the average person looks at this and says, well, how can a guy who was made attorney general by the president look at this situation and make a decision that is free of politics? And how can I have confidence that this was done based on the facts? michael barbaro So when will we know more? When will we know what the attorney general has decided on that front? michael schmidt Oh, now you want to know more. michael barbaro [LAUGHS] Yes, please. michael schmidt The greed of the news business. michael barbaro If you’ll indulge us. michael schmidt When will we know more? Barr and his deputies will go through this, and I don’t know — sometime in the next few days, sometime in the next few weeks. It may be a difficult process to unbraid. Mueller has been rummaging around the president’s life for 22 months. We don’t have clarity into everything Mueller’s found. What if Barr looks at it and says, eh, Mueller thinks he violated this law and that law. But actually, I don’t think he has it. Maybe there’s not enough there. Maybe Barr disagrees with what Mueller has found, simply on a legal basis. The other thing is that Barr only really gets one shot to get it right. Whatever he goes out the door with in terms of handing over information to Congress, he’s got to have it right. He’s not going to have a second chance to say, well, you know, I gave you that stuff. But like, meh, maybe it’s not what I thought it was. Or, oh, let’s give you more. He has to get it right the first time. Otherwise, he’ll look like he’s waffling. michael barbaro And how much of how Barr handles this will be with a mind toward the expectation that a Democratically controlled House of Representatives is already into a series of investigations that they only want to redouble once this report is in their hands? michael schmidt Barr clearly knows Congress is going to jump up and down until it is satisfied with the information that it wants about this investigation. He can drag that out and probably lose it one way or another, either in the court of public opinion or in the actual courts. So he probably just wants to get it over with as soon as possible. He knows this has been an enormous weight on the country, and that the sooner it is resolved, the sooner the country can move on. michael barbaro And Mike, what is the likelihood that the way we find out more about the Mueller report is not from the version that’s sent to Congress, but from something else? I think we’re all really mindful of the fact that this is the era of the leak, and that this is the biggest potential leak in recent memory. michael schmidt Yeah. michael barbaro Will it leak? michael schmidt I don’t know. I mean, the number of people who will have access to this document will be very small. And they will know that if there are a lot of leaks about this, then the president can start to raise questions about what’s really going on. It will look nefarious. The Democrats will get their backs up and say, well, if this stuff is leaking out, why can’t we have access to it? They will know that their lives will be much more difficult if there are leaks here. Obviously, you could come up with a scenario where someone working on the investigation is frustrated that the Justice Department has decided to go one way or the other on the report, and they think, ah, screw it, I’m going to make this public. But my guess is they have gone to great lengths to ensure that this is heavily protected. michael barbaro So now we wait again. michael schmidt Hurry up and wait. michael barbaro Mike, thank you very much. michael schmidt Thanks for having me. michael barbaro In a letter to Democratic and Republican leaders of Congress sent on Friday afternoon, Attorney General William Barr said he would brief them on the major conclusions of the special counsel’s report as soon as this weekend. On Friday evening, The Times reported that Mueller is not recommending any new charges against President Trump or anyone else around him. That’s it for “The Daily.” I’m Michael Barbaro. See you on Monday. Mr. Trump has helped make Mr. Mueller a household name, attacking his investigation an average of about twice a day as an unfair, politically motivated attempt to invalidate his election. He never forgave former Attorney General Jeff Sessions for recusing himself from the Russia inquiry, an action that cleared the way for his deputy, Mr. Rosenstein, to appoint Mr. Mueller. Mr. Trump reiterated his attacks on the special counsel this week, saying Mr. Mueller decided “out of the blue” to write a report, ignoring that regulations require him to do so. But the president also said the report should be made public because of “tens of millions” of Americans would want to know what it contains. “Let people see it,” Mr. Trump said. “There was no collusion. There was no obstruction. There was no nothing.” In court, the evidence amassed by the Mueller team has held up. Every defendant who is not still awaiting trial either pleaded guilty or was convicted by a jury. Although no American has been charged with illegally plotting with the Russians to tilt the election, Mr. Mueller uncovered a web of lies by former Trump aides. Five of them were found to have deceived federal investigators or Congress about their interactions with Russians during the campaign or the transition. They include Mr. Manafort; Michael T. Flynn, the president’s first national security adviser; and Michael D. Cohen, Mr. Trump’s former lawyer and longtime fixer. A sixth former adviser, Roger J. Stone Jr., is to stand trial in November on charges of lying to Congress. Those who know Mr. Mueller, a former F.B.I. director, had predicted a concise, legalistic report devoid of opinions — nothing like the 445-page treatise that Ken Starr, who investigated President Bill Clinton, produced in 1998. Operating under a now-defunct statute that governed independent counsels, Mr. Starr had far more leeway than Mr. Mueller to set his own investigative boundaries and to render judgments. Here are some pieces of the jigsaw puzzle. The full picture is missing. [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] The regulations that governed Mr. Mueller, who is under the supervision of the Justice Department, only required him to explain his decisions to either seek or decline to seek criminal charges in a confidential report to the attorney general. The attorney general was then required to notify the leadership of the House and Senate judiciary committees. Despite pledging transparency, Mr. Barr may be reluctant to release the part of Mr. Mueller’s report that may be of most interest: whom the special counsel declined to prosecute and why, especially if Mr. Trump is on that list. The department’s longstanding practice, with rare exceptions, is not to identify people who were merely investigative targets to avoid unfairly tainting their reputations, especially because they would have no chance to defend themselves in a court of law. Mr. Rosenstein, who has overseen Mr. Mueller’s work and may have a say in what is released, is a firm believer in that principle. In a May 2017 letter that the president seized upon as justification for his decision to fire James B. Comey as F.B.I. director, Mr. Rosenstein severely criticized Mr. Comey for announcing during the previous year that Hillary Clinton, then a presidential candidate, would not be charged with a crime for mishandling classified information as secretary of state. Releasing “derogatory information about the subject of a declined criminal investigation,” Mr. Rosenstein wrote, is “a textbook example of what federal prosecutors and agents are taught not to do.” Weighing that principle against the public’s right to know is even more fraught in the president’s case. If Mr. Mueller declined to pursue criminal charges against Mr. Trump, he might have been guided not by lack of evidence, but by the Justice Department’s legal opinions that a sitting president cannot be indicted. The department’s Office of Legal Counsel has repeatedly advised that the stigma and burden of being under prosecution would damage the president’s ability to lead. Representative Jerrold Nadler, Democrat of New York and the head of the House Judiciary Committee, has argued that the department’s view that presidents are protected from prosecution makes it all the more important for the public to see Mr. Mueller’s report. “To maintain that a sitting president cannot be indicted, and then to withhold evidence of wrongdoing from Congress because the president cannot be charged, is to convert D.O.J. policy into the means for a cover-up,” he said before the House approved its nonbinding resolution to disclose the special counsel’s findings. Some predict that any disclosures from Mr. Mueller’s report will satisfy neither Mr. Trump’s critics nor his defenders, especially given the public’s high expectations for answers. A Washington Post-Schar School poll in February illustrated the sharp divide in public opinion: It found that of those surveyed, most Republicans did not believe evidence of crimes that Mr. Mueller’s team had already proved in court, while most Democrats believed he had proved crimes that he had not even claimed. Nicholas Fandos contributed reporting. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.  OpinionThe Editorial Board 

Supported by By Sharon LaFraniere and Katie Benner WASHINGTON — The special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, on Friday delivered a report on his inquiry into Russian interference in the 2016 election to Attorney General William P. Barr, bringing to a close an investigation that has consumed the nation and cast a shadow over President Trump for nearly two years. Mr. Barr told congressional leaders in a letter that he may brief them on the special counsel’s “principal conclusions” as early as this weekend, a surprisingly fast turnaround for a report anticipated for months. The attorney general said he “remained committed to as much transparency as possible.” In an apparent endorsement of an investigation that Mr. Trump has relentlessly attacked as a “witch hunt,” Mr. Barr said Justice Department officials never had to intervene to keep Mr. Mueller from taking an inappropriate or unwarranted step. The department’s regulations would have required Mr. Barr to inform the leaders of the House and Senate Judiciary committees about any such interventions in his letter. A senior Justice Department official said that Mr. Mueller would not recommend new indictments, a statement aimed at ending speculation that Mr. Trump or other key figures might be charged down the line. With department officials emphasizing that Mr. Mueller’s inquiry was over and his office closing, the question for both Mr. Trump’s critics and defenders was whether the prosecutors condemned the president’s behavior in their report, exonerated him — or neither. The president’s lawyers were already girding for a possible fight over whether they could assert executive privilege to keep parts of the report secret. [Update: Read Attorney General William Barr’s summary of the Mueller Report.] Since Mr. Mueller’s appointment in May 2017, his team has focused on how Russian operatives sought to sway the outcome of the 2016 presidential race and whether anyone tied to the Trump campaign, wittingly or unwittingly, cooperated with them. While the inquiry, started months earlier by the F.B.I., unearthed a far-ranging Russian influence operation, no public evidence emerged that the president or his aides illegally assisted it. Nonetheless, the damage to Mr. Trump and those in his circle has been extensive. A half-dozen former Trump aides were indicted or convicted of crimes, mostly for lying to federal investigators or Congress. Others remain under investigation in cases that Mr. Mueller’s office handed off to federal prosecutors in New York and elsewhere. Dozens of Russian intelligence officers or citizens, along with three Russian companies, were charged in cases that are likely to languish in court because the defendants cannot be extradited to the United States. Republicans immediately seized upon the news that no more indictments are expected as a vindication of Mr. Trump and his campaign. Those reports “confirm what we’ve known all along: There was never any collusion with Russia,” Representative Steve Scalise of Louisiana, the second-highest-ranking House Republican, said in a statement. Democrats, including some of those hoping to supplant Mr. Trump in the White House in the 2020 election, insisted that Mr. Mueller’s full report be made public, including the underlying evidence. In a joint statement, Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California and Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the top Senate Democrat, warned Mr. Barr not to allow the White House a “sneak preview” of the document. “The White House must not be allowed to interfere in decisions about what parts of those findings or evidence are made public,” they said. Not since Watergate has a special prosecutor’s inquiry so mesmerized the American public. Polls have shown that most Americans want to know its findings, and the House unanimously passed a nonbinding resolution to publicize the report. Mr. Barr’s letter said he would decide what to release after consulting with Mr. Mueller and Rod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general who has overseen his investigation. Justice Department officials emphasized that the White House had been kept at a distance. Only a handful of law enforcement officials have seen the report, said Kerri Kupec, a department spokeswoman. More than two years of criminal indictments and steady revelations about Trump campaign contacts with Russians reveal the scope of the special counsel investigation. Although a White House lawyer was notified that Mr. Mueller had delivered it to Mr. Barr, no White House official has seen the report or been briefed on it, according to Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary. “The next steps are up to Attorney General Barr, and we look forward to the process taking its course,” she said. Rudolph W. Giuliani, one of the president’s personal lawyers, said he planned to remain in Washington over the weekend in part because Mr. Barr might update Congress on Mr. Mueller’s findings. He sidestepped a question about whether the president’s lawyers were seeking to review the report before any of it becomes public. White House lawyers have been preparing for the possibility they may need to argue some material is protected by executive privilege, especially if the report discusses whether the president’s interactions with his top aides or legal advisers are evidence of obstruction of justice. Even though Mr. Mueller’s report is complete, some aspects of his inquiry remain active and may be overseen by the same prosecutors once they are reassigned to their old jobs in the Justice Department. For instance, recently filed court documents suggest that investigators are still examining why the former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort turned over campaign polling data in 2016 to a Russian associate who prosecutors said was tied to Russian intelligence. Mr. Mueller looked extensively at whether Mr. Trump obstructed justice to protect himself or his associates. But despite months of negotiations, prosecutors were unable to personally interview the president. Mr. Trump’s lawyers insisted that he respond only to written questions from the special counsel. Even though under current Justice Department policy, a sitting president cannot be indicted, Mr. Trump’s lawyers worried that his responses in an oral interview could bring political repercussions, including impeachment, or put him in legal jeopardy once he is out of office. transcript Hosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Clare Toeniskoetter, Annie Brown and Theo Balcomb, and edited by Lisa Tobin, with help from Paige Cowett The Mueller report has been sent to the attorney general. Here’s a look at what this means and what comes next. michael barbaro So it’s here. michael schmidt Well, it’s in the hands of Bill Barr. It’s not here in the sense that we can publicly consume it and see what Bob Mueller found. It has just moved from one pocket, which we can’t see into, into another pocket that we can’t see into. michael barbaro But it has moved pockets, at least, which is something. Something we’ve been waiting two years for. michael schmidt Correct. Bob Mueller is done with his investigation. michael barbaro From The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is a special episode of “The Daily.” Today: The Mueller report has been sent to the attorney general. It’s Friday afternoon, March 22. So Mike, talk me through your day today. michael schmidt So knowing it was going to be a big day, I turned on the recorder as soon as I left the house this morning and made my way into the office to hurry up and wait. [music]  michael schmidt All right. 10:05 a.m. michael schmidt I left my house at 10:00 a.m. michael schmidt We expect the report to be finished today around noon. michael schmidt Walking down 17th Street, heading to the office. michael schmidt I got a call from the office from my editor wanting to know what I knew. Told her I knew nothing. Last thing an editor wants to hear — nothing new. michael schmidt Not a ton of people on the streets. speaker Excuse me. michael schmidt Yes? speaker Do you know where the Jamaican Embassy is? michael schmidt I do not, I’m sorry. Do you know what the address is? michael schmidt Was stopped by a woman who couldn’t find the Jamaican embassy. michael schmidt O.K., so you’re going to want to go this way. Go to DuPont Circle, and make a right. Just keep on following that trail. speaker Oh, O.K., so I’m going the wrong way. michael schmidt Well, we’re all going the wrong way. michael schmidt Come up to Massachusetts Avenue. michael schmidt Cold March day. Fairly cold here in Washington. 45 degrees. michael schmidt Just had a normal sort of walk into the office. michael schmidt [HUMMING] Half a block away, coming up to 17th — michael barbaro It doesn’t seem like you’re in a big hurry to get to the office. michael schmidt Well, all the work has been done. We know what’s coming. michael schmidt How are you? speaker Hey, Mike. michael schmidt What’s going on? michael schmidt So come into the building. michael schmidt Big day? No? Not a big day? All right. michael schmidt Get on the elevator. elevator voice announcer Floor seven. michael schmidt Walk into the office. And everyone wants to know — speaker 1 What do you got? What do you got? speaker 2 Chasing the report. michael schmidt When’s it going to happen? speaker This is the question I ask him every five — michael schmidt Days or — speaker Days or weeks. michael schmidt Days or weeks? michael schmidt The whole apparatus of The New York Times is jacked up for this moment. michael schmidt We got Nick here. We’re all ready. speaker Gang’s all here. michael schmidt There’s been a lot of time and planning that’s gone into this. There’s a lot of stories that have been written that are ready to go. speaker Does that seem right? michael schmidt Yep. speaker O.K. michael schmidt Everyone’s sitting around waiting, and they want answers. dean baquet So what’s the latest? michael schmidt Dean Baquet, our executive editor, calls down to Washington to ask Elisabeth Bumiller, our bureau chief, what do you know? elisabeth bumiller You’re not so sure about it? michael schmidt I’m less sure about the timing, but — michael schmidt Elizabeth calls me over to her desk, puts him on speakerphone. Mikey, what do you know? dean baquet Do you know much of a heads-up we may or may not get? michael schmidt My guess is not a lot because I don’t know what there is to get a heads-up on. michael schmidt And I said, I don’t know. michael barbaro [LAUGHS] You tell them that you don’t know. michael schmidt We don’t know! dean baquet O.K. elisabeth bumiller That’s what we got. michael schmidt So that’s all we got. elisabeth bumiller And we have stories ready. Once we get the word from Justice, we just push a button. michael schmidt All the work is done. elisabeth bumiller We’re just tourists hanging around. michael schmidt We’re sort of lemmings at this point. michael schmidt So it’s sort of just having the same unsatisfying conversation with different people throughout the office for several hours while eating doughnuts. michael barbaro [LAUGHS] michael schmidt And then it happens. archived recording The special counsel investigation is over. Special Counsel Robert Mueller has concluded his investigation into Russian election interference and possible coordination with associates of President Donald Trump. That report has been submitted. Now the question is, what happens to it? How much gets released and when? That is up to the new attorney general, Bill Barr. michael barbaro So what do we know at this stage? It is Friday afternoon. What’s our understanding? michael schmidt Our understanding is that the attorney general and his deputies now have a long weekend of reading ahead of them. They have to go through the report, see what’s there, digest it, and then figure out what to do with it. How much of it should be made public, how much of it should be given to Congress, and how much of it should remain secret. michael barbaro Is that really all we know at this point? Is there anything about how this unfolded that tells us anything about the report or what Mueller has found, if he’s decided to bring any charges against any figure in the White House, or how he’s thinking about this? michael schmidt We just know that Mueller is done. There are no more individuals that will be charged by the special counsel’s office in the investigation. If anyone else has gotten caught up in this, they will be indicted by other U.S. attorneys across the country who have absorbed investigations from the special counsel’s office. michael barbaro So the version of the report that will go to Congress and be seen by the public is the version that the attorney general has had a chance to go through and decide which parts should be seen by the larger world and which should not. And that’s still going to take a while for him to figure out. michael schmidt Correct. And it’s a very difficult process, because if there is criminality in regards to the president, it’s a very tricky issue to navigate. The Justice Department has a policy that says the president can’t be indicted. But if the president can’t be indicted, Congress should deal with that behavior. How do you give that information to Congress? It’s not a snap decision you can make — like, O.K., Mueller’s done, this is what he found. Let’s put this in another box and send it to Congress. It’s far trickier. michael barbaro So how does the A.G. make the decision about what to include and what not to include in this report? michael schmidt Barr is in this incredibly difficult spot, because he has to figure out how much information to share with the public and Congress in a way that is enough to leave people convinced that this investigation was done thoroughly and based on following the facts. But he has to protect the president from disclosures about him that the public may be interested in, that his political enemies may want to know, but that has no bearing on the actual criminal investigation that was done. michael barbaro And does how the attorney general handles that balance depend, in your mind, Mike, on what the report from Mueller finds and says and recommends? michael schmidt Yes. If Mueller says the president didn’t break the law, then Barr has to figure out how much information to give to Congress so that Congress takes those findings seriously. The problem is Barr is in a very difficult spot politically, because the Democrats have already concluded the president did something wrong. So if Barr learns from Mueller that there’s no criminality on the president, how does Barr then win over those Democrats and show them that Mueller truly made a decision based on the facts? How much of what the investigation found does he have to give to the Hill? In a normal criminal investigation, all of that information would not become public because the Justice Department would want to protect the individual who they have found did not commit a crime. But this situation is different, because a lot of people do think the president committed a crime. So how do you show the Democrats and the rest of the country that hey, look, this is what Mueller found. He only found X, Y, and Z. And if we wanted to make a case, he would have needed to have uncovered these other things, which he did not. And that’s why we’re confident with his findings. michael barbaro And on the other hand, if Mueller does find criminality and perhaps recommend charges against the president, how does Barr have to proceed? michael schmidt Well, how much of the evidence that Mueller uncovered should go to Congress? What should be told to Congress? Should Congress be told explicitly, look, Mueller believes the president violated these laws, and here’s the evidence to back it up? But what if some of that evidence has been obtained from a grand jury? The Justice Department can’t just hand over grand jury information to Congress. What if the information is classified? They’re not going to want to hand over classified information to Congress. They think Congress leaks like a sieve. michael barbaro Is it safe to say though, Mike, that if criminality is found by Mueller, Congress and the public will see more of the Muller report than if that is not found? michael schmidt Maybe. Maybe. But look, this is a highly unusual situation. The person who runs the executive branch, the president, has just been under investigation by folks inside of his own branch for the past 22 months. Very awkward situation. michael barbaro And the person making the decision about what we all will learn about that investigation is a direct appointee of that president. michael schmidt Correct. Has the job because the president put him there. So the perception here is one where the average person looks at this and says, well, how can a guy who was made attorney general by the president look at this situation and make a decision that is free of politics? And how can I have confidence that this was done based on the facts? michael barbaro So when will we know more? When will we know what the attorney general has decided on that front? michael schmidt Oh, now you want to know more. michael barbaro [LAUGHS] Yes, please. michael schmidt The greed of the news business. michael barbaro If you’ll indulge us. michael schmidt When will we know more? Barr and his deputies will go through this, and I don’t know — sometime in the next few days, sometime in the next few weeks. It may be a difficult process to unbraid. Mueller has been rummaging around the president’s life for 22 months. We don’t have clarity into everything Mueller’s found. What if Barr looks at it and says, eh, Mueller thinks he violated this law and that law. But actually, I don’t think he has it. Maybe there’s not enough there. Maybe Barr disagrees with what Mueller has found, simply on a legal basis. The other thing is that Barr only really gets one shot to get it right. Whatever he goes out the door with in terms of handing over information to Congress, he’s got to have it right. He’s not going to have a second chance to say, well, you know, I gave you that stuff. But like, meh, maybe it’s not what I thought it was. Or, oh, let’s give you more. He has to get it right the first time. Otherwise, he’ll look like he’s waffling. michael barbaro And how much of how Barr handles this will be with a mind toward the expectation that a Democratically controlled House of Representatives is already into a series of investigations that they only want to redouble once this report is in their hands? michael schmidt Barr clearly knows Congress is going to jump up and down until it is satisfied with the information that it wants about this investigation. He can drag that out and probably lose it one way or another, either in the court of public opinion or in the actual courts. So he probably just wants to get it over with as soon as possible. He knows this has been an enormous weight on the country, and that the sooner it is resolved, the sooner the country can move on. michael barbaro And Mike, what is the likelihood that the way we find out more about the Mueller report is not from the version that’s sent to Congress, but from something else? I think we’re all really mindful of the fact that this is the era of the leak, and that this is the biggest potential leak in recent memory. michael schmidt Yeah. michael barbaro Will it leak? michael schmidt I don’t know. I mean, the number of people who will have access to this document will be very small. And they will know that if there are a lot of leaks about this, then the president can start to raise questions about what’s really going on. It will look nefarious. The Democrats will get their backs up and say, well, if this stuff is leaking out, why can’t we have access to it? They will know that their lives will be much more difficult if there are leaks here. Obviously, you could come up with a scenario where someone working on the investigation is frustrated that the Justice Department has decided to go one way or the other on the report, and they think, ah, screw it, I’m going to make this public. But my guess is they have gone to great lengths to ensure that this is heavily protected. michael barbaro So now we wait again. michael schmidt Hurry up and wait. michael barbaro Mike, thank you very much. michael schmidt Thanks for having me. michael barbaro In a letter to Democratic and Republican leaders of Congress sent on Friday afternoon, Attorney General William Barr said he would brief them on the major conclusions of the special counsel’s report as soon as this weekend. On Friday evening, The Times reported that Mueller is not recommending any new charges against President Trump or anyone else around him. That’s it for “The Daily.” I’m Michael Barbaro. See you on Monday. Mr. Trump has helped make Mr. Mueller a household name, attacking his investigation an average of about twice a day as an unfair, politically motivated attempt to invalidate his election. He never forgave former Attorney General Jeff Sessions for recusing himself from the Russia inquiry, an action that cleared the way for his deputy, Mr. Rosenstein, to appoint Mr. Mueller. Mr. Trump reiterated his attacks on the special counsel this week, saying Mr. Mueller decided “out of the blue” to write a report, ignoring that regulations require him to do so. But the president also said the report should be made public because of “tens of millions” of Americans would want to know what it contains. “Let people see it,” Mr. Trump said. “There was no collusion. There was no obstruction. There was no nothing.” In court, the evidence amassed by the Mueller team has held up. Every defendant who is not still awaiting trial either pleaded guilty or was convicted by a jury. Although no American has been charged with illegally plotting with the Russians to tilt the election, Mr. Mueller uncovered a web of lies by former Trump aides. Five of them were found to have deceived federal investigators or Congress about their interactions with Russians during the campaign or the transition. They include Mr. Manafort; Michael T. Flynn, the president’s first national security adviser; and Michael D. Cohen, Mr. Trump’s former lawyer and longtime fixer. A sixth former adviser, Roger J. Stone Jr., is to stand trial in November on charges of lying to Congress. Those who know Mr. Mueller, a former F.B.I. director, had predicted a concise, legalistic report devoid of opinions — nothing like the 445-page treatise that Ken Starr, who investigated President Bill Clinton, produced in 1998. Operating under a now-defunct statute that governed independent counsels, Mr. Starr had far more leeway than Mr. Mueller to set his own investigative boundaries and to render judgments. Here are some pieces of the jigsaw puzzle. The full picture is missing. [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] The regulations that governed Mr. Mueller, who is under the supervision of the Justice Department, only required him to explain his decisions to either seek or decline to seek criminal charges in a confidential report to the attorney general. The attorney general was then required to notify the leadership of the House and Senate judiciary committees. Despite pledging transparency, Mr. Barr may be reluctant to release the part of Mr. Mueller’s report that may be of most interest: whom the special counsel declined to prosecute and why, especially if Mr. Trump is on that list. The department’s longstanding practice, with rare exceptions, is not to identify people who were merely investigative targets to avoid unfairly tainting their reputations, especially because they would have no chance to defend themselves in a court of law. Mr. Rosenstein, who has overseen Mr. Mueller’s work and may have a say in what is released, is a firm believer in that principle. In a May 2017 letter that the president seized upon as justification for his decision to fire James B. Comey as F.B.I. director, Mr. Rosenstein severely criticized Mr. Comey for announcing during the previous year that Hillary Clinton, then a presidential candidate, would not be charged with a crime for mishandling classified information as secretary of state. Releasing “derogatory information about the subject of a declined criminal investigation,” Mr. Rosenstein wrote, is “a textbook example of what federal prosecutors and agents are taught not to do.” Weighing that principle against the public’s right to know is even more fraught in the president’s case. If Mr. Mueller declined to pursue criminal charges against Mr. Trump, he might have been guided not by lack of evidence, but by the Justice Department’s legal opinions that a sitting president cannot be indicted. The department’s Office of Legal Counsel has repeatedly advised that the stigma and burden of being under prosecution would damage the president’s ability to lead. Representative Jerrold Nadler, Democrat of New York and the head of the House Judiciary Committee, has argued that the department’s view that presidents are protected from prosecution makes it all the more important for the public to see Mr. Mueller’s report. “To maintain that a sitting president cannot be indicted, and then to withhold evidence of wrongdoing from Congress because the president cannot be charged, is to convert D.O.J. policy into the means for a cover-up,” he said before the House approved its nonbinding resolution to disclose the special counsel’s findings. Some predict that any disclosures from Mr. Mueller’s report will satisfy neither Mr. Trump’s critics nor his defenders, especially given the public’s high expectations for answers. A Washington Post-Schar School poll in February illustrated the sharp divide in public opinion: It found that of those surveyed, most Republicans did not believe evidence of crimes that Mr. Mueller’s team had already proved in court, while most Democrats believed he had proved crimes that he had not even claimed. Nicholas Fandos contributed reporting. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.  OpinionThe Editorial Board Supported by By Sandra E. Garcia A report of more than 400 pages detailing the investigation led by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, revealed the scope of an ambitious Russian campaign to sabotage the 2016 presidential election and explored whether President Trump engaged in acts of obstruction to impede the investigation. The report, which the Justice Department redacted before releasing it to the public on Thursday, cast the president in an unflattering light but did not accuse him of criminal wrongdoing. It did not exonerate him, either. Here is what you need to know: The report explicitly stated that the investigation did not clear the president of obstructing justice. “If we had confidence after a thorough investigation of the facts that the president clearly did not commit obstruction of justice, we would so state,” the report said. While Mr. Trump has tweeted that there was “no collusion,” collusion is not a legal concept. Mr. Mueller instead was looking for evidence of a criminal conspiracy or “coordination” between the Trump campaign and Russia in its election interference activities. Mr. Mueller decided there was not enough evidence to prove coordination. The report revealed that Mr. Trump continuously and impulsively asked staff members to take steps that would have led to the removal of the special counsel. Donald F. McGahn II, the White House counsel, was asked to remove Mr. Mueller but the report said Mr. McGahn decided “he would resign rather than trigger what he regarded as a potential Saturday Night Massacre,” a reference to Richard M. Nixon’s firing in 1973 of the special prosecutor investigating him. [Read more about Mr. McGahn’s role in the investigation.] Soon after Mr. McGahn’s resignation, Mr. Trump asked an adviser, Corey Lewandowski, to get the attorney general, Jeff Sessions, to end the investigation. Mr. Lewandowski instead asked his colleague Rick Dearborn to do so. Mr. Dearborn chose not to because he “was uncomfortable with the task,” the report said. [Read how Mr. Mueller reached the conclusion that Mr. Trump did not illegally obstruct justice.] The report summarized and elaborated on false statements, exploring why so many people lied, changed their stories and issued misleading statements to both the public and federal authorities — all of which helped fuel the investigation. One of those instances came when it was reported that Mr. Trump asked Mr. McGahn to fire Mr. Mueller. Mr. Trump denied the reports to reporters but Mr. McGahn confirmed them to investigators. After the F.B.I. director, James B. Comey, was fired, Mr. Trump wanted the deputy attorney general, Rod J. Rosenstein, to tell the news media that the firing was Mr. Rosenstein’s idea. Mr. Rosenstein refused, saying that if “the press asked him he would tell the truth,” the report said. While Mr. Trump has called unflattering reports about his behavior as president “fake news,” some of the most unflattering stories about Mr. Trump were accurate, and White House officials often knew that was the case even as they heaped criticism on journalists. [Read more about how the term “fake news” has played a role in Mr. Trump’s presidency.] White House aides declared the report to be a clear victory for the president but it hardly means an end to the scrutiny. The investigation identified potential criminal activity outside the jurisdiction of the special counsel, which made 14 referrals to the appropriate law enforcement authorities. Twelve of those referrals remain secret. Two of them have been made public: one regarding Mr. Trump’s former personal lawyer, Michael D. Cohen, and the other regarding Gregory B. Craig, a White House counsel in the Obama administration. As the Russia investigation shifts from the executive branch to Congress, Representative Jerrold Nadler, Democrat of New York, who is the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, issued a subpoena on Friday demanding that the Justice Department provide a full unredacted version of the report by May 1. [Read the subpoena.] Speaker Nancy Pelosi remains wary of starting the impeachment process, fearful that it could raise Mr. Trump’s standing in the polls. [Read how Democrats are contending with the possibility of impeaching Mr. Trump.] “Based on what we have seen to date, going forward on impeachment is not worthwhile at this point,” Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the No. 2 House Democrat, told CNN on Thursday. “Very frankly, there is an election in 18 months and the American people will make a judgment.” Democrats plan to continue investigating and to bring the results to the public’s attention in an effort to hamper Mr. Trump’s re-election bid in 2020.    

Supported by By Sandra E. Garcia A report of more than 400 pages detailing the investigation led by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, revealed the scope of an ambitious Russian campaign to sabotage the 2016 presidential election and explored whether President Trump engaged in acts of obstruction to impede the investigation. The report, which the Justice Department redacted before releasing it to the public on Thursday, cast the president in an unflattering light but did not accuse him of criminal wrongdoing. It did not exonerate him, either. Here is what you need to know: The report explicitly stated that the investigation did not clear the president of obstructing justice. “If we had confidence after a thorough investigation of the facts that the president clearly did not commit obstruction of justice, we would so state,” the report said. While Mr. Trump has tweeted that there was “no collusion,” collusion is not a legal concept. Mr. Mueller instead was looking for evidence of a criminal conspiracy or “coordination” between the Trump campaign and Russia in its election interference activities. Mr. Mueller decided there was not enough evidence to prove coordination. The report revealed that Mr. Trump continuously and impulsively asked staff members to take steps that would have led to the removal of the special counsel. Donald F. McGahn II, the White House counsel, was asked to remove Mr. Mueller but the report said Mr. McGahn decided “he would resign rather than trigger what he regarded as a potential Saturday Night Massacre,” a reference to Richard M. Nixon’s firing in 1973 of the special prosecutor investigating him. [Read more about Mr. McGahn’s role in the investigation.] Soon after Mr. McGahn’s resignation, Mr. Trump asked an adviser, Corey Lewandowski, to get the attorney general, Jeff Sessions, to end the investigation. Mr. Lewandowski instead asked his colleague Rick Dearborn to do so. Mr. Dearborn chose not to because he “was uncomfortable with the task,” the report said. [Read how Mr. Mueller reached the conclusion that Mr. Trump did not illegally obstruct justice.] The report summarized and elaborated on false statements, exploring why so many people lied, changed their stories and issued misleading statements to both the public and federal authorities — all of which helped fuel the investigation. One of those instances came when it was reported that Mr. Trump asked Mr. McGahn to fire Mr. Mueller. Mr. Trump denied the reports to reporters but Mr. McGahn confirmed them to investigators. After the F.B.I. director, James B. Comey, was fired, Mr. Trump wanted the deputy attorney general, Rod J. Rosenstein, to tell the news media that the firing was Mr. Rosenstein’s idea. Mr. Rosenstein refused, saying that if “the press asked him he would tell the truth,” the report said. While Mr. Trump has called unflattering reports about his behavior as president “fake news,” some of the most unflattering stories about Mr. Trump were accurate, and White House officials often knew that was the case even as they heaped criticism on journalists. [Read more about how the term “fake news” has played a role in Mr. Trump’s presidency.] White House aides declared the report to be a clear victory for the president but it hardly means an end to the scrutiny. The investigation identified potential criminal activity outside the jurisdiction of the special counsel, which made 14 referrals to the appropriate law enforcement authorities. Twelve of those referrals remain secret. Two of them have been made public: one regarding Mr. Trump’s former personal lawyer, Michael D. Cohen, and the other regarding Gregory B. Craig, a White House counsel in the Obama administration. As the Russia investigation shifts from the executive branch to Congress, Representative Jerrold Nadler, Democrat of New York, who is the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, issued a subpoena on Friday demanding that the Justice Department provide a full unredacted version of the report by May 1. [Read the subpoena.] Speaker Nancy Pelosi remains wary of starting the impeachment process, fearful that it could raise Mr. Trump’s standing in the polls. [Read how Democrats are contending with the possibility of impeaching Mr. Trump.] “Based on what we have seen to date, going forward on impeachment is not worthwhile at this point,” Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the No. 2 House Democrat, told CNN on Thursday. “Very frankly, there is an election in 18 months and the American people will make a judgment.” Democrats plan to continue investigating and to bring the results to the public’s attention in an effort to hamper Mr. Trump’s re-election bid in 2020.    Supported by How to understand his report. Also: The debate over the upper middle class. By David Leonhardt Opinion Columnist This article is part of David Leonhardt’s newsletter. You can sign up here to receive it each weekday. “If [Robert] Mueller doesn’t land a single additional indictment (and, to be clear, I think there will be more), he will have conducted one of most important counterintelligence investigations in U.S. history, something that will stand with cases like Aldrich Ames or the Rosenbergs,” Garrett Graff, the journalist and author of a book about the F.B.I., wrote this weekend. “We should not allow Trump allies to minimize, downplay, or distract from what Mueller has already found — corruption and criminality at the heart of American politics,” Graff added. Also: “Too many people have been waiting for Robert Mueller to formally say what we already know to be true: The levels of corruption, conflict of interest, and untruth in this administration are without parallel,” Slate’s Dahlia Lithwick writes. And this Lawfare guide, from Mikhaila Fogel, Susan Hennessey, Quinta Jurecic and Benjamin Wittes, offers four principles for understanding Mueller’s forthcoming work. [Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.] The state of the haute bourgeoisie Is today’s upper middle class — that is, high-earning professionals who don’t tend to have major wealth — more similar to the truly wealthy or to the actual middle class? That question has been the subject of a big debate in recent years. On one side are writers like Richard Reeves and my colleague David Brooks, who argue that the upper middle class is flourishing. On the other side are people like the economist Thomas Piketty and Senator Bernie Sanders, who say that the important divide is instead between the 1 percent and everyone else. I offer my answer to the question in my latest column. I think both sides have a point, but that it’s a mistake to divide the country into only two basic income groups. To make grand pronouncements about the American economy, you need to talk about three groups: the top 1 percent, the upper middle class and everyone else. The column is based around a chart that I created with my colleague Sahil Chinoy. If you have thoughts, leave a comment alongside the column. I’ll respond to some reader comments later today. In a related story, The Wall Street Journal’s Paul Kiernan reported this weekend: “Employee pay and benefits as a percentage of gross domestic income fell to 52.7% in last year’s third quarter, for the fourth straight quarterly decline, according to data from the Bureau of Economic Analysis. It was as high as 59% in 1970 and 57% in 2001 … While the labor share has fallen, business profits are on the rise.” If you are not a subscriber to this newsletter, you can subscribe here. You can also join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt • Facebook 

Supported by How to understand his report. Also: The debate over the upper middle class. By David Leonhardt Opinion Columnist This article is part of David Leonhardt’s newsletter. You can sign up here to receive it each weekday. “If [Robert] Mueller doesn’t land a single additional indictment (and, to be clear, I think there will be more), he will have conducted one of most important counterintelligence investigations in U.S. history, something that will stand with cases like Aldrich Ames or the Rosenbergs,” Garrett Graff, the journalist and author of a book about the F.B.I., wrote this weekend. “We should not allow Trump allies to minimize, downplay, or distract from what Mueller has already found — corruption and criminality at the heart of American politics,” Graff added. Also: “Too many people have been waiting for Robert Mueller to formally say what we already know to be true: The levels of corruption, conflict of interest, and untruth in this administration are without parallel,” Slate’s Dahlia Lithwick writes. And this Lawfare guide, from Mikhaila Fogel, Susan Hennessey, Quinta Jurecic and Benjamin Wittes, offers four principles for understanding Mueller’s forthcoming work. [Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.] The state of the haute bourgeoisie Is today’s upper middle class — that is, high-earning professionals who don’t tend to have major wealth — more similar to the truly wealthy or to the actual middle class? That question has been the subject of a big debate in recent years. On one side are writers like Richard Reeves and my colleague David Brooks, who argue that the upper middle class is flourishing. On the other side are people like the economist Thomas Piketty and Senator Bernie Sanders, who say that the important divide is instead between the 1 percent and everyone else. I offer my answer to the question in my latest column. I think both sides have a point, but that it’s a mistake to divide the country into only two basic income groups. To make grand pronouncements about the American economy, you need to talk about three groups: the top 1 percent, the upper middle class and everyone else. The column is based around a chart that I created with my colleague Sahil Chinoy. If you have thoughts, leave a comment alongside the column. I’ll respond to some reader comments later today. In a related story, The Wall Street Journal’s Paul Kiernan reported this weekend: “Employee pay and benefits as a percentage of gross domestic income fell to 52.7% in last year’s third quarter, for the fourth straight quarterly decline, according to data from the Bureau of Economic Analysis. It was as high as 59% in 1970 and 57% in 2001 … While the labor share has fallen, business profits are on the rise.” If you are not a subscriber to this newsletter, you can subscribe here. You can also join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt • Facebook Supported by The special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, investigated Russian election interference, ties to the Trump campaign and possible presidential obstruction of justice. His report has been released. By Peter Baker Mr. Mueller examined about 10 actions by President Trump to determine whether he sought to obstruct justice but could not reach a conclusion. He found a concerted effort by Russia to interfere in the 2016 election, but established no criminal conspiracy between Mr. Trump’s campaign and Russia. The report detailed dramatic conflicts within the White House. When Mr. Trump learned of Mr. Mueller’s appointment, he slumped in his chair and said: “Oh my God. This is terrible. This is the end of my presidency.” [Read more excerpts and analysis from our reporters.] Attorney General William P. Barr offered a strong defense of Mr. Trump and said he gave the president’s lawyers access to Mr. Mueller’s report “earlier this week,” before it was released.  While Mr. Mueller’s investigation is over, he reported that it has spawned 14 spinoff inquiries. At a White House event for wounded troops, Mr. Trump claimed vindication to cheers from the audience. Democrats lashed out at Mr. Barr, and said it was up to Congress to hold the president to account.  Investigators examined about 10 episodes in which the president may have obstructed justice, but Mr. Mueller said he could not reach a conclusion. “The evidence we obtained about the president’s actions and intent presents difficult issues that would need to be resolved if we were making a traditional prosecutorial judgment. At the same time, if we had confidence after a thorough investigation of the facts that the president clearly did not commit obstruction of justice, we would so state. Based on the facts and the applicable legal standards, we are unable to reach that judgment. Accordingly, while this report does not conclude that the president committed a crime, it also does not exonerate him.” Mr. Barr, however, opted to reach the conclusion that Mr. Mueller would not. “After carefully reviewing the facts and legal theories outlined in the report, and in consultation with the Office of Legal Counsel and other department lawyers, the deputy attorney general and I concluded that the evidence developed by the special counsel is not sufficient to establish that the president committed an obstruction of justice offense,” Mr. Barr said at a news conference before the release of the report. Mr. Barr said that he “disagreed with some of the special counsel’s legal theories” regarding obstruction but even accepting them found no basis for a criminal charge. Among the incidents that the special counsel examined was Mr. Trump’s decision to fire James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director, in May 2017, and an attempt by the president a month later to have his White House counsel, Donald F. McGahn II, fire Mr. Mueller.  He also looked at the president’s efforts to hide details of a Trump Tower meeting with Russians during the election and to pressure Jeff Sessions, then the attorney general, to reverse his decision to recuse himself from supervising the investigation. Mr. Barr said he would not stand in the way of Mr. Mueller testifying on Capitol Hill about his findings. “I have no objection to Bob Mueller testifying,” Mr. Barr said.  The findings from the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, are now available to the public. The redacted report details his two-year investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election. [Get what you need to know delivered to your inbox every weekday morning.] The last two years were filled with angry clashes, outbursts, threatened resignations and false statements as Mr. Trump reacted to the investigation. After saying that Mr. Mueller’s appointment would mean “the end of my presidency,” Mr. Trump turned on Jeff Sessions, then the attorney general, blaming him for recusing himself from overseeing the investigation. “How could you let this happen, Jeff?” he demanded. The tension between Mr. Trump and Mr. McGahn, then the White House counsel, flared repeatedly. In June 2017, Mr. Trump called Mr. McGahn from Camp David twice and told him to have Mr. Mueller fired for alleged conflicts of interest. Mr. McGahn refused, saying he did not want to repeat the “Saturday Night Massacre,” when Richard M. Nixon ordered the firing of Watergate prosecutors. Mr. McGahn prepared to submit his resignation. He called Reince Priebus, then the White House chief of staff, and told him the president had asked him to “do crazy shit.” Ultimately, Mr. Trump backed off, but when The New York Times reported about the episode, he told Mr. McGahn to publicly deny it, which he would not do. Mr. Trump referred to Mr. McGahn as a “lying bastard” and said that if he did not deny the report, “then maybe I’ll have to get rid of him.” He did not fire Mr. McGahn, who left later that year. In his news conference on Thursday morning, Mr. Barr at times sounded like a defense lawyer, making no criticism of the president and instead offering an understanding interpretation of actions that Mr. Trump’s critics have said amounted to obstruction of justice. [Read Mr. Barr’s full prepared remarks.] In addressing obstruction, Mr. Barr said that the president had no corrupt intent and that his actions seen as impeding the inquiry were a result of being understandably “frustrated and angered by his sincere belief that the investigation was undermining his presidency, propelled by his political opponents and fueled by illegal leaks.” Representative Jerrold Nadler, Democrat of New York and the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, said Thursday afternoon that Mr. Mueller’s report provided clear evidence that the president “engaged in obstruction of justice and other misconduct” that necessitated additional scrutiny by Congress. “The responsibility now falls to Congress to hold the president accountable for his actions,” Mr. Nadler said. The House Judiciary Committee is the traditional home of impeachment proceedings, and Mr. Nadler did not rule them out, though he said such talk was premature. He has already opened his own investigation into possible obstruction of justice, abuse of power and corruption. Speaking to reporters in New York, Mr. Nadler was sharply critical of Mr. Barr, saying, “We clearly can’t believe what Attorney General Barr tells us.” Senator Mark Warner, the top Democrat on the Senate Intelligence Committee, said Mr. Barr “fundamentally mischaracterized” Mr. Mueller’s findings, adding that “it is essential that Congress hear directly from the special counsel.” Mr. Nadler said he would quickly issue a subpoena to compel the delivery of the full report and underlying evidence to his committee.  Mr. Barr said he gave Mr. Trump’s lawyers access to the report early, which allowed them a chance to prepare their public defense. “Earlier this week, the president’s personal counsel requested and were given the opportunity to read a final version of the redacted report before it was publicly released,” Mr. Barr said. “The president’s personal lawyers were not permitted to make, and did not request, any redactions.”  Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer, Rudolph W. Giuliani, said he and three lawyers on the president’s legal team started reading the report on Tuesday night in a secure room at the Justice Department. “We couldn’t take it out. We couldn’t photograph it,” Mr. Giuliani said in an interview with Fox News on Thursday. He said he and the other lawyers each read the entire report and shared their thoughts with each other.  [Here’s what you need to know about the redactions and what they mean.] Mr. Barr said he shared the report with Mr. Trump’s personal lawyers in accordance with the “practice followed under the Ethics in Government Act,” permitting those named in a report to read it before publication. However, that has not always been the practice. In 1998, the independent counsel Ken Starr declined to let President Bill Clinton or his lawyers read his report on the Monica Lewinsky case before he sent it to Congress. Mr. Barr said that the White House made no claims of executive privilege over any information in the report. At the news conference, Mr. Barr made sure to include Rod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general, who first appointed Mr. Mueller. He also sent a letter to lawmakers saying that he would allow select congressional leaders to see a full version of the report — without redactions except for grand-jury information. Federal prosecutors are pursuing 14 other investigations that were referred by the special counsel, according to the report.  Of the 14, only two were disclosed in the redacted report: potential wire fraud and federal employment law violations involving Michael D. Cohen, Mr. Trump’s former personal lawyer, and charges against Gregory B. Craig, the former White House counsel under President Barack Obama, who was accused of lying to investigators and concealing work for a pro-Russian government in Ukraine. The other 12 referrals were redacted because of concerns that if details were released publicly, they could harm continuing investigations. The special counsel also transferred 11 cases to other federal prosecutors to be wrapped up, mostly involving defendants who are awaiting trial or sentencing.  Mr. Barr provided an important qualifier to the determination that Mr. Trump and the Trump campaign did not engage in illegal collusion — not with the Russian government that stole the Democratic emails, but with WikiLeaks, which published them. “The special counsel also investigated whether any member or affiliate of the Trump campaign encouraged or otherwise played a role in these dissemination efforts,” he said. “Under applicable law, publication of these types of materials would not be criminal unless the publisher also participated in the underlying hacking conspiracy. Here too, the special counsel’s report did not find that any person associated with the Trump campaign illegally participated in the dissemination of the materials.” In other words, since WikiLeaks did not participate in Russia’s underlying hacking of the emails, its actions were no crime. Thus, any Trump campaign collusion with WikiLeaks could not be an illegal conspiracy. More than two years of criminal indictments and steady revelations about Trump campaign contacts with Russians reveal the scope of the special counsel investigation. Mr. Trump responded to the report at an event at the White House for wounded troops, saying that it had vindicated him.  “They’re having a good day,” he said of the troops. “I’m having a good day too. It’s called ‘no collusion, no obstruction.’ There never was, by the way, and there never will be.” “This should never happen to another president again, this hoax,” he added. Even before the report was released, Mr. Trump was claiming victory and lashing out at investigators and his critics. He tweeted a photo resembling a “Game of Thrones” poster that depicted him staring into a cloud, saying “No Collusion. No Obstruction. For the haters and radical left Democrats: Game Over.” The tweet was the latest of a barrage that the president posted starting early Thursday morning, long before the report was released. He did not speak to reporters in the afternoon as he left the White House for Mar-a-Lago, his club in Florida. Vice President Mike Pence, perhaps the president’s most loyal defender, said Mr. Mueller’s report “confirms what the president and I have said since Day 1: There was no collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia and there was no obstruction of justice.” Mr. Pence also said the special counsel investigation had the “full cooperation” of the White House. But despite the special counsel’s requests, Mr. Trump’s lawyers would not let the president sit for an interview out of concern that the president would make a false statement and expose himself to criminal charges. Instead, Mr. Trump provided written answers to questions. While attention focused on what was in Mr. Mueller’s report, many in Washington were also looking at what was left out. Mr. Barr made what he called “limited” redactions to the report, taking out information he deemed sensitive. More than a dozen pages were fully redacted, or nearly so. Other pages had sections of text blacked out, including full paragraphs. Much of the undisclosed material was in the first section of the report on Russia’s interference in the 2016 election and its interactions with the Trump campaign. Far less was scrubbed from the second part of the report, on whether Mr. Trump obstructed justice. Mr. Barr blacked out sentences or sections that fit into four categories: grand-jury testimony or evidence; classified intelligence; information that would compromise continuing investigations; and details that might harm the reputations or intrude on the privacy of “peripheral third parties.” The attorney general used different colors through the report to identify which sections were deleted for which reasons. The phrase “harm to ongoing matter” came up alongside enough deleted material that it quickly become its own meme, inspiring the names of upcoming bar trivia teams and imaginary punk rock bands. Katie Benner, Nicholas Fandos, Michael S. Schmidt, Eileen Sullivan, Michael Tackett and Noah Weiland contributed reporting. Peter Baker is the chief White House correspondent and has covered the last four presidents for The Times and The Washington Post. He also is the author of five books, most recently “Impeachment: An American History.”  @peterbakernyt • Facebook 

Supported by The special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, investigated Russian election interference, ties to the Trump campaign and possible presidential obstruction of justice. His report has been released. By Peter Baker Mr. Mueller examined about 10 actions by President Trump to determine whether he sought to obstruct justice but could not reach a conclusion. He found a concerted effort by Russia to interfere in the 2016 election, but established no criminal conspiracy between Mr. Trump’s campaign and Russia. The report detailed dramatic conflicts within the White House. When Mr. Trump learned of Mr. Mueller’s appointment, he slumped in his chair and said: “Oh my God. This is terrible. This is the end of my presidency.” [Read more excerpts and analysis from our reporters.] Attorney General William P. Barr offered a strong defense of Mr. Trump and said he gave the president’s lawyers access to Mr. Mueller’s report “earlier this week,” before it was released.  While Mr. Mueller’s investigation is over, he reported that it has spawned 14 spinoff inquiries. At a White House event for wounded troops, Mr. Trump claimed vindication to cheers from the audience. Democrats lashed out at Mr. Barr, and said it was up to Congress to hold the president to account.  Investigators examined about 10 episodes in which the president may have obstructed justice, but Mr. Mueller said he could not reach a conclusion. “The evidence we obtained about the president’s actions and intent presents difficult issues that would need to be resolved if we were making a traditional prosecutorial judgment. At the same time, if we had confidence after a thorough investigation of the facts that the president clearly did not commit obstruction of justice, we would so state. Based on the facts and the applicable legal standards, we are unable to reach that judgment. Accordingly, while this report does not conclude that the president committed a crime, it also does not exonerate him.” Mr. Barr, however, opted to reach the conclusion that Mr. Mueller would not. “After carefully reviewing the facts and legal theories outlined in the report, and in consultation with the Office of Legal Counsel and other department lawyers, the deputy attorney general and I concluded that the evidence developed by the special counsel is not sufficient to establish that the president committed an obstruction of justice offense,” Mr. Barr said at a news conference before the release of the report. Mr. Barr said that he “disagreed with some of the special counsel’s legal theories” regarding obstruction but even accepting them found no basis for a criminal charge. Among the incidents that the special counsel examined was Mr. Trump’s decision to fire James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director, in May 2017, and an attempt by the president a month later to have his White House counsel, Donald F. McGahn II, fire Mr. Mueller.  He also looked at the president’s efforts to hide details of a Trump Tower meeting with Russians during the election and to pressure Jeff Sessions, then the attorney general, to reverse his decision to recuse himself from supervising the investigation. Mr. Barr said he would not stand in the way of Mr. Mueller testifying on Capitol Hill about his findings. “I have no objection to Bob Mueller testifying,” Mr. Barr said.  The findings from the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, are now available to the public. The redacted report details his two-year investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election. [Get what you need to know delivered to your inbox every weekday morning.] The last two years were filled with angry clashes, outbursts, threatened resignations and false statements as Mr. Trump reacted to the investigation. After saying that Mr. Mueller’s appointment would mean “the end of my presidency,” Mr. Trump turned on Jeff Sessions, then the attorney general, blaming him for recusing himself from overseeing the investigation. “How could you let this happen, Jeff?” he demanded. The tension between Mr. Trump and Mr. McGahn, then the White House counsel, flared repeatedly. In June 2017, Mr. Trump called Mr. McGahn from Camp David twice and told him to have Mr. Mueller fired for alleged conflicts of interest. Mr. McGahn refused, saying he did not want to repeat the “Saturday Night Massacre,” when Richard M. Nixon ordered the firing of Watergate prosecutors. Mr. McGahn prepared to submit his resignation. He called Reince Priebus, then the White House chief of staff, and told him the president had asked him to “do crazy shit.” Ultimately, Mr. Trump backed off, but when The New York Times reported about the episode, he told Mr. McGahn to publicly deny it, which he would not do. Mr. Trump referred to Mr. McGahn as a “lying bastard” and said that if he did not deny the report, “then maybe I’ll have to get rid of him.” He did not fire Mr. McGahn, who left later that year. In his news conference on Thursday morning, Mr. Barr at times sounded like a defense lawyer, making no criticism of the president and instead offering an understanding interpretation of actions that Mr. Trump’s critics have said amounted to obstruction of justice. [Read Mr. Barr’s full prepared remarks.] In addressing obstruction, Mr. Barr said that the president had no corrupt intent and that his actions seen as impeding the inquiry were a result of being understandably “frustrated and angered by his sincere belief that the investigation was undermining his presidency, propelled by his political opponents and fueled by illegal leaks.” Representative Jerrold Nadler, Democrat of New York and the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, said Thursday afternoon that Mr. Mueller’s report provided clear evidence that the president “engaged in obstruction of justice and other misconduct” that necessitated additional scrutiny by Congress. “The responsibility now falls to Congress to hold the president accountable for his actions,” Mr. Nadler said. The House Judiciary Committee is the traditional home of impeachment proceedings, and Mr. Nadler did not rule them out, though he said such talk was premature. He has already opened his own investigation into possible obstruction of justice, abuse of power and corruption. Speaking to reporters in New York, Mr. Nadler was sharply critical of Mr. Barr, saying, “We clearly can’t believe what Attorney General Barr tells us.” Senator Mark Warner, the top Democrat on the Senate Intelligence Committee, said Mr. Barr “fundamentally mischaracterized” Mr. Mueller’s findings, adding that “it is essential that Congress hear directly from the special counsel.” Mr. Nadler said he would quickly issue a subpoena to compel the delivery of the full report and underlying evidence to his committee.  Mr. Barr said he gave Mr. Trump’s lawyers access to the report early, which allowed them a chance to prepare their public defense. “Earlier this week, the president’s personal counsel requested and were given the opportunity to read a final version of the redacted report before it was publicly released,” Mr. Barr said. “The president’s personal lawyers were not permitted to make, and did not request, any redactions.”  Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer, Rudolph W. Giuliani, said he and three lawyers on the president’s legal team started reading the report on Tuesday night in a secure room at the Justice Department. “We couldn’t take it out. We couldn’t photograph it,” Mr. Giuliani said in an interview with Fox News on Thursday. He said he and the other lawyers each read the entire report and shared their thoughts with each other.  [Here’s what you need to know about the redactions and what they mean.] Mr. Barr said he shared the report with Mr. Trump’s personal lawyers in accordance with the “practice followed under the Ethics in Government Act,” permitting those named in a report to read it before publication. However, that has not always been the practice. In 1998, the independent counsel Ken Starr declined to let President Bill Clinton or his lawyers read his report on the Monica Lewinsky case before he sent it to Congress. Mr. Barr said that the White House made no claims of executive privilege over any information in the report. At the news conference, Mr. Barr made sure to include Rod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general, who first appointed Mr. Mueller. He also sent a letter to lawmakers saying that he would allow select congressional leaders to see a full version of the report — without redactions except for grand-jury information. Federal prosecutors are pursuing 14 other investigations that were referred by the special counsel, according to the report.  Of the 14, only two were disclosed in the redacted report: potential wire fraud and federal employment law violations involving Michael D. Cohen, Mr. Trump’s former personal lawyer, and charges against Gregory B. Craig, the former White House counsel under President Barack Obama, who was accused of lying to investigators and concealing work for a pro-Russian government in Ukraine. The other 12 referrals were redacted because of concerns that if details were released publicly, they could harm continuing investigations. The special counsel also transferred 11 cases to other federal prosecutors to be wrapped up, mostly involving defendants who are awaiting trial or sentencing.  Mr. Barr provided an important qualifier to the determination that Mr. Trump and the Trump campaign did not engage in illegal collusion — not with the Russian government that stole the Democratic emails, but with WikiLeaks, which published them. “The special counsel also investigated whether any member or affiliate of the Trump campaign encouraged or otherwise played a role in these dissemination efforts,” he said. “Under applicable law, publication of these types of materials would not be criminal unless the publisher also participated in the underlying hacking conspiracy. Here too, the special counsel’s report did not find that any person associated with the Trump campaign illegally participated in the dissemination of the materials.” In other words, since WikiLeaks did not participate in Russia’s underlying hacking of the emails, its actions were no crime. Thus, any Trump campaign collusion with WikiLeaks could not be an illegal conspiracy. More than two years of criminal indictments and steady revelations about Trump campaign contacts with Russians reveal the scope of the special counsel investigation. Mr. Trump responded to the report at an event at the White House for wounded troops, saying that it had vindicated him.  “They’re having a good day,” he said of the troops. “I’m having a good day too. It’s called ‘no collusion, no obstruction.’ There never was, by the way, and there never will be.” “This should never happen to another president again, this hoax,” he added. Even before the report was released, Mr. Trump was claiming victory and lashing out at investigators and his critics. He tweeted a photo resembling a “Game of Thrones” poster that depicted him staring into a cloud, saying “No Collusion. No Obstruction. For the haters and radical left Democrats: Game Over.” The tweet was the latest of a barrage that the president posted starting early Thursday morning, long before the report was released. He did not speak to reporters in the afternoon as he left the White House for Mar-a-Lago, his club in Florida. Vice President Mike Pence, perhaps the president’s most loyal defender, said Mr. Mueller’s report “confirms what the president and I have said since Day 1: There was no collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia and there was no obstruction of justice.” Mr. Pence also said the special counsel investigation had the “full cooperation” of the White House. But despite the special counsel’s requests, Mr. Trump’s lawyers would not let the president sit for an interview out of concern that the president would make a false statement and expose himself to criminal charges. Instead, Mr. Trump provided written answers to questions. While attention focused on what was in Mr. Mueller’s report, many in Washington were also looking at what was left out. Mr. Barr made what he called “limited” redactions to the report, taking out information he deemed sensitive. More than a dozen pages were fully redacted, or nearly so. Other pages had sections of text blacked out, including full paragraphs. Much of the undisclosed material was in the first section of the report on Russia’s interference in the 2016 election and its interactions with the Trump campaign. Far less was scrubbed from the second part of the report, on whether Mr. Trump obstructed justice. Mr. Barr blacked out sentences or sections that fit into four categories: grand-jury testimony or evidence; classified intelligence; information that would compromise continuing investigations; and details that might harm the reputations or intrude on the privacy of “peripheral third parties.” The attorney general used different colors through the report to identify which sections were deleted for which reasons. The phrase “harm to ongoing matter” came up alongside enough deleted material that it quickly become its own meme, inspiring the names of upcoming bar trivia teams and imaginary punk rock bands. Katie Benner, Nicholas Fandos, Michael S. Schmidt, Eileen Sullivan, Michael Tackett and Noah Weiland contributed reporting. Peter Baker is the chief White House correspondent and has covered the last four presidents for The Times and The Washington Post. He also is the author of five books, most recently “Impeachment: An American History.”  @peterbakernyt • Facebook Supported by We get more agitated by the anticipation of political revelations than by the actual findings.  By Charlie Warzel Mr. Warzel is an Opinion writer at large. Over the weekend, Washington and much of America participated in a spectacle that’s become familiar during the current administration: waiting breathlessly to be proven right about whether there was Trump-Russia collusion. On Friday evening, the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller, submitted his long-awaited report to Attorney General William P. Barr, ending an exhausting chapter in the 2016 election interference story. After more than a year of investigations, subpoenas, and indictments, the submission suggested that speculation was over. It was time for answers. Sort of. While the report kicked around the Department of Justice in a state of investigatory purgatory, the partisan spin machines went to work. Though the president stayed silent, cable news chyrons and pundits outlined the ways in which the report would play among Trump allies and enemies. Without knowing the report’s contents, pro-Trump websites ran headlines like “Top 10 Propagandists Who Pushed Russia Collusion Hoax.” Despite the frenzied anticipation of the report as the culmination of an investigation of the highest order, the subtext was clear: the release of the report likely wouldn’t settle any scores. The fight was just beginning. It began in earnest Sunday afternoon when Barr released his summary of Mueller’s findings. The summary stated that Mr. Mueller found no evidence that either President Trump or his aides had coordinated with the Russian government in the 2016 interference. But while Mueller drew no conclusion as to whether the president obstructed justice, Barr said he concluded that he did not. Despite its clear language, the summary resolved very little in Twitter’s court of public opinion.  Pro-Trump pundits hailed the news as “unequivocally” discrediting accusations against the president; Russiagate’s staunchest proponents argued that Barr’s summary was inadequate, “daintily” worded and “carefully pro-Trump.”  The Mueller report and its attendant fallout are manifestations of a deeper phenomenon — one that feels particularly pervasive in modern American culture. When it comes to the biggest revelations, we care far more about the buildup than any of the actual findings. Perhaps it’s only natural, at a time when conspiracy theories are ascendant, that so much of our media and politics feel programmed by documents and investigations shrouded in secrecy. These documents captivate us most when they’re hypothetical, confidential, or unfinished. Their potential energy — proof of collusion could be just around the corner! — perfectly fit the ‘choose your own reality’ of our times. A Mueller report can be whatever you imagine it to be. It’s only when it’s released that it seems to lose its power. Molly McKew, a researcher and writer who studies computational propaganda, described this phenomenon to me as “a kind of instinctual information warfare tactic” that’s been ushered in by relentless political polarization of the Trump era. “We are beginning to understand that preparing the battlefield is maybe more important than the battle itself,” she told me. Documents like the Mueller report, McKew argues, “are more powerful as the unknown than the known.” We’ve seen this pattern before: see, for example, Representative Devin Nunes’s 2018 #ReleaseTheMemo campaign. The scale and scope of the two reports differ wildly. One is a voluminous report on a rigorous multiyear investigation by the former F.B.I director; the other a four-page memo written by G.O.P. committee members about applications to surveil a former Trump campaign adviser. But the political posturing surrounding the documents was familiar. During Nunes’ two-week push to declassify the memo, Republican lawmakers and pundits touted the document as a smoking gun destined to set the record straight on the Trump-Russia investigation. The memo’s authors argued that, should the document be declassified, it would contain bombshells that would “raise concerns with the legitimacy and legality of certain” Department of Justice “and F.B.I. interactions.” The furor over the concealed contents led the pro-Trump media-industrial complex to set off a social media offensive, fueled by a #ReleaseTheMemo hashtag campaign. Memes were circulated; cable news panels assembled. Across the right-wing sectors of the internet, the document promised a conspiracy just out of reach: a bold claim of anti-Trump bias with the proof in chains. The perfect ammunition for an information war. The memo’s only problem, then, was that it was released. Despite the fever pitch leading up to the release, the Friday it was published was a letdown for all involved. Not only didn’t it live up to the hashtag hype, but many of its most incendiary claims were still shrouded in classified documents or reports. Even so, the reveal hardly stopped the partisan debate roiling Washington. Nunes, undeterred, attempted to keep the cycle running by hinting that additional — even more explosive — memos would be forthcoming; Democrats teased releasing a counter memo. More than a year later, those memos are now largely forgotten. As our politics becomes increasingly tinged with elements of the conspiratorial, the great reveal becomes a potentially massive liability. Which is why, in the aftermath of the Mueller report, the spin may be just beginning.  Quinta Jurecic, managing editor of the Lawfare blog, which has been following each twist of the Mueller investigation, dubbed this scramble to tease new or upcoming revelations as “effort to keep the anticipation machine running.” The anticipation machine shows no signs of stopping. Last week, The Wall Street Journal editorial board called for the full release of the Mueller report, including “investigative materials that accompany the report.”  “It really does feel like an effort to continue the Nunes memo model,” Jurecic told me. “Just constantly pushing for the next release, the next drip, so that the unraveling of the great conspiracy is always just around the corner.” In the wake of Barr’s summary, a handful of Democrats and advocacy organizations are also signaling there’s more to the story around the corner, pushing for a full release of the Mueller report and its currently unknown contents. Others have simply moved their hopes to continuing investigations of the president by federal prosecutors in the Southern District of New York. And while the seriousness of the Southern District’s case is clear, the shift in focus to the next controversy feels very familiar. The obsession with the Mueller Report and its author — bordering, in some cases, on celebrity worship — centered on the promise of irrefutable authority. So, too, was the focus on the former F.B.I. director’s reputation as a no-nonsense, nonpartisan, relentless pursuer of truth. At a time where partisan hackery and information warfare reign supreme, the report was a hope for something spin-proof to be held up as evidence that, at the very least, somebody could get to the truth. That, of course, is unlikely to happen — at least not in this political moment, where each side isn’t just armed with their own algorithmically amplified echo chambers, but with their own sets of facts. Behind closed doors, the Mueller report has been a powerful force, hanging over not just a presidency, but a whole country. It has been, at different points, a “witch hunt,” a quest for truth, a hope for impeachment, and proof of corruption and bias on both sides of the aisle. In the open, the Mueller report, if it’s released in full, is likely to be defanged — a document that can’t possibly satisfy everyone and may very well end up satisfying no one. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email:letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Charlie Warzel, a New York Times Opinion writer at large, covers technology, media, politics and online extremism.  @cwarzel 

Supported by We get more agitated by the anticipation of political revelations than by the actual findings.  By Charlie Warzel Mr. Warzel is an Opinion writer at large. Over the weekend, Washington and much of America participated in a spectacle that’s become familiar during the current administration: waiting breathlessly to be proven right about whether there was Trump-Russia collusion. On Friday evening, the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller, submitted his long-awaited report to Attorney General William P. Barr, ending an exhausting chapter in the 2016 election interference story. After more than a year of investigations, subpoenas, and indictments, the submission suggested that speculation was over. It was time for answers. Sort of. While the report kicked around the Department of Justice in a state of investigatory purgatory, the partisan spin machines went to work. Though the president stayed silent, cable news chyrons and pundits outlined the ways in which the report would play among Trump allies and enemies. Without knowing the report’s contents, pro-Trump websites ran headlines like “Top 10 Propagandists Who Pushed Russia Collusion Hoax.” Despite the frenzied anticipation of the report as the culmination of an investigation of the highest order, the subtext was clear: the release of the report likely wouldn’t settle any scores. The fight was just beginning. It began in earnest Sunday afternoon when Barr released his summary of Mueller’s findings. The summary stated that Mr. Mueller found no evidence that either President Trump or his aides had coordinated with the Russian government in the 2016 interference. But while Mueller drew no conclusion as to whether the president obstructed justice, Barr said he concluded that he did not. Despite its clear language, the summary resolved very little in Twitter’s court of public opinion.  Pro-Trump pundits hailed the news as “unequivocally” discrediting accusations against the president; Russiagate’s staunchest proponents argued that Barr’s summary was inadequate, “daintily” worded and “carefully pro-Trump.”  The Mueller report and its attendant fallout are manifestations of a deeper phenomenon — one that feels particularly pervasive in modern American culture. When it comes to the biggest revelations, we care far more about the buildup than any of the actual findings. Perhaps it’s only natural, at a time when conspiracy theories are ascendant, that so much of our media and politics feel programmed by documents and investigations shrouded in secrecy. These documents captivate us most when they’re hypothetical, confidential, or unfinished. Their potential energy — proof of collusion could be just around the corner! — perfectly fit the ‘choose your own reality’ of our times. A Mueller report can be whatever you imagine it to be. It’s only when it’s released that it seems to lose its power. Molly McKew, a researcher and writer who studies computational propaganda, described this phenomenon to me as “a kind of instinctual information warfare tactic” that’s been ushered in by relentless political polarization of the Trump era. “We are beginning to understand that preparing the battlefield is maybe more important than the battle itself,” she told me. Documents like the Mueller report, McKew argues, “are more powerful as the unknown than the known.” We’ve seen this pattern before: see, for example, Representative Devin Nunes’s 2018 #ReleaseTheMemo campaign. The scale and scope of the two reports differ wildly. One is a voluminous report on a rigorous multiyear investigation by the former F.B.I director; the other a four-page memo written by G.O.P. committee members about applications to surveil a former Trump campaign adviser. But the political posturing surrounding the documents was familiar. During Nunes’ two-week push to declassify the memo, Republican lawmakers and pundits touted the document as a smoking gun destined to set the record straight on the Trump-Russia investigation. The memo’s authors argued that, should the document be declassified, it would contain bombshells that would “raise concerns with the legitimacy and legality of certain” Department of Justice “and F.B.I. interactions.” The furor over the concealed contents led the pro-Trump media-industrial complex to set off a social media offensive, fueled by a #ReleaseTheMemo hashtag campaign. Memes were circulated; cable news panels assembled. Across the right-wing sectors of the internet, the document promised a conspiracy just out of reach: a bold claim of anti-Trump bias with the proof in chains. The perfect ammunition for an information war. The memo’s only problem, then, was that it was released. Despite the fever pitch leading up to the release, the Friday it was published was a letdown for all involved. Not only didn’t it live up to the hashtag hype, but many of its most incendiary claims were still shrouded in classified documents or reports. Even so, the reveal hardly stopped the partisan debate roiling Washington. Nunes, undeterred, attempted to keep the cycle running by hinting that additional — even more explosive — memos would be forthcoming; Democrats teased releasing a counter memo. More than a year later, those memos are now largely forgotten. As our politics becomes increasingly tinged with elements of the conspiratorial, the great reveal becomes a potentially massive liability. Which is why, in the aftermath of the Mueller report, the spin may be just beginning.  Quinta Jurecic, managing editor of the Lawfare blog, which has been following each twist of the Mueller investigation, dubbed this scramble to tease new or upcoming revelations as “effort to keep the anticipation machine running.” The anticipation machine shows no signs of stopping. Last week, The Wall Street Journal editorial board called for the full release of the Mueller report, including “investigative materials that accompany the report.”  “It really does feel like an effort to continue the Nunes memo model,” Jurecic told me. “Just constantly pushing for the next release, the next drip, so that the unraveling of the great conspiracy is always just around the corner.” In the wake of Barr’s summary, a handful of Democrats and advocacy organizations are also signaling there’s more to the story around the corner, pushing for a full release of the Mueller report and its currently unknown contents. Others have simply moved their hopes to continuing investigations of the president by federal prosecutors in the Southern District of New York. And while the seriousness of the Southern District’s case is clear, the shift in focus to the next controversy feels very familiar. The obsession with the Mueller Report and its author — bordering, in some cases, on celebrity worship — centered on the promise of irrefutable authority. So, too, was the focus on the former F.B.I. director’s reputation as a no-nonsense, nonpartisan, relentless pursuer of truth. At a time where partisan hackery and information warfare reign supreme, the report was a hope for something spin-proof to be held up as evidence that, at the very least, somebody could get to the truth. That, of course, is unlikely to happen — at least not in this political moment, where each side isn’t just armed with their own algorithmically amplified echo chambers, but with their own sets of facts. Behind closed doors, the Mueller report has been a powerful force, hanging over not just a presidency, but a whole country. It has been, at different points, a “witch hunt,” a quest for truth, a hope for impeachment, and proof of corruption and bias on both sides of the aisle. In the open, the Mueller report, if it’s released in full, is likely to be defanged — a document that can’t possibly satisfy everyone and may very well end up satisfying no one. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email:letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Charlie Warzel, a New York Times Opinion writer at large, covers technology, media, politics and online extremism.  @cwarzel Supported by Do lawbreaking, lying to the public and colluding with a foreign enemy add up to innocence? By David Leonhardt Opinion Columnist This article is part of David Leonhardt’s newsletter. You can sign up here to receive it each weekday. Yes, I know you’ve heard this before, but many observers think it’s finally true: The Mueller report seems to be coming soon. I want to step back this morning and review what Robert’s Mueller investigation (and others) have already uncovered. The brief version: So far, there is no clear evidence that the Trump campaign and Russian officials worked together to coordinate campaign strategy. Trump and his defenders have tried to conflate this with innocence. The president’s mantra is “No collusion.” [Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.] But that’s both wrong and a brazen lowering of the bar for presidential behavior. Even without any further findings, the Mueller investigation shows that Trump has repeatedly violated his oath of office by lying to the American people, breaking the law, putting his personal interests above the country’s and secretly working with a hostile foreign country. The details: Russia interfered in the 2016 election to help Trump. Russian officials hacked the emails of Democratic officials and created a social media campaign designed to hurt Hillary Clinton and help Trump. Trump campaign officials knew of these foreign efforts and encouraged them. The president’s son did so. As did George Papadopoulos, a campaign adviser. And Trump himself publicly urged Russia to hack Clinton’s emails — on the same day Russian hackers tried to breach her private server for the first time. Trump campaign officials attempted to conceal contacts they had with Russians and other foreign officials. Trump and his associates repeatedly lied to the public and to investigators about their more than 100 contacts — including meetings, phone calls and emails — with Russians during the campaign. Among the examples: Michael Flynn, a campaign aide who became Trump’s national security adviser, lied about phone calls he had with the Russian ambassador to the United States. Campaign officials knew in advance about the WikiLeaks email dumps. Before WikiLeaks released stolen Democratic emails, Roger Stone, a longtime Trump associate, told campaign officials it would happen. Trump was secretly pursuing a business venture in Russia and lied about it. During most of the 2016 campaign, Trump associates worked to build a Trump Tower in Moscow, while publicly denying any such business relationship. Trump’s former lawyer, Michael Cohen, lied to Congress about the talks and was sentenced to three years in prison. Trump directed a subordinate to break the law. During the campaign, Trump directed Cohen to pay hush money to women who claimed to have had affairs with Trump. The secret payments violated campaign finance laws. Trump’s campaign was run by criminals. The Mueller investigation has also uncovered separate financial crimes committed by top campaign officials. Both Paul Manafort, the campaign chairman, and Rick Gates, a Manafort protégé, have been indicted on conspiracy and fraud. Others tied to the campaign, including Papadopoulos, have also received prison sentences. For more: In a Times Op-Ed, James Comey, the former F.B.I. director, writes that he hopes the Mueller report shows that Trump did not hinder the investigation. My newsroom colleagues Larry Buchanan and Karen Yourish have put together a helpful guide to the people implicated in the investigation. FiveThirtyEight’s Amelia Thomson-DeVeaux and Perry Bacon Jr. note that Mueller’s court filings so far amount to a kind of public report. Neal Katyal, a legal expert, has also put together a helpful Twitter thread on the subject. “Don’t focus on the one-line spin. Focus on the facts, judgments, and limitations in the Mueller Report,” he writes. The legal scholar Joyce White Vance notes that the end of the Mueller investigation doesn’t necessarily mean the end of Trump’s legal issues. “Mueller appears to have stayed carefully within his lane, sending cases that strayed from his core mission to US attorneys & DOJ divisions,” she tweeted. “These career prosecutors will work their investigations to a conclusion, even after Mueller closes shop.” And Aaron Blake of The Washington Post outlines what could happen to Mueller’s report once the attorney general has it. If you are not a subscriber to this newsletter, you can subscribe here. You can also join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt • Facebook 

Supported by Do lawbreaking, lying to the public and colluding with a foreign enemy add up to innocence? By David Leonhardt Opinion Columnist This article is part of David Leonhardt’s newsletter. You can sign up here to receive it each weekday. Yes, I know you’ve heard this before, but many observers think it’s finally true: The Mueller report seems to be coming soon. I want to step back this morning and review what Robert’s Mueller investigation (and others) have already uncovered. The brief version: So far, there is no clear evidence that the Trump campaign and Russian officials worked together to coordinate campaign strategy. Trump and his defenders have tried to conflate this with innocence. The president’s mantra is “No collusion.” [Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.] But that’s both wrong and a brazen lowering of the bar for presidential behavior. Even without any further findings, the Mueller investigation shows that Trump has repeatedly violated his oath of office by lying to the American people, breaking the law, putting his personal interests above the country’s and secretly working with a hostile foreign country. The details: Russia interfered in the 2016 election to help Trump. Russian officials hacked the emails of Democratic officials and created a social media campaign designed to hurt Hillary Clinton and help Trump. Trump campaign officials knew of these foreign efforts and encouraged them. The president’s son did so. As did George Papadopoulos, a campaign adviser. And Trump himself publicly urged Russia to hack Clinton’s emails — on the same day Russian hackers tried to breach her private server for the first time. Trump campaign officials attempted to conceal contacts they had with Russians and other foreign officials. Trump and his associates repeatedly lied to the public and to investigators about their more than 100 contacts — including meetings, phone calls and emails — with Russians during the campaign. Among the examples: Michael Flynn, a campaign aide who became Trump’s national security adviser, lied about phone calls he had with the Russian ambassador to the United States. Campaign officials knew in advance about the WikiLeaks email dumps. Before WikiLeaks released stolen Democratic emails, Roger Stone, a longtime Trump associate, told campaign officials it would happen. Trump was secretly pursuing a business venture in Russia and lied about it. During most of the 2016 campaign, Trump associates worked to build a Trump Tower in Moscow, while publicly denying any such business relationship. Trump’s former lawyer, Michael Cohen, lied to Congress about the talks and was sentenced to three years in prison. Trump directed a subordinate to break the law. During the campaign, Trump directed Cohen to pay hush money to women who claimed to have had affairs with Trump. The secret payments violated campaign finance laws. Trump’s campaign was run by criminals. The Mueller investigation has also uncovered separate financial crimes committed by top campaign officials. Both Paul Manafort, the campaign chairman, and Rick Gates, a Manafort protégé, have been indicted on conspiracy and fraud. Others tied to the campaign, including Papadopoulos, have also received prison sentences. For more: In a Times Op-Ed, James Comey, the former F.B.I. director, writes that he hopes the Mueller report shows that Trump did not hinder the investigation. My newsroom colleagues Larry Buchanan and Karen Yourish have put together a helpful guide to the people implicated in the investigation. FiveThirtyEight’s Amelia Thomson-DeVeaux and Perry Bacon Jr. note that Mueller’s court filings so far amount to a kind of public report. Neal Katyal, a legal expert, has also put together a helpful Twitter thread on the subject. “Don’t focus on the one-line spin. Focus on the facts, judgments, and limitations in the Mueller Report,” he writes. The legal scholar Joyce White Vance notes that the end of the Mueller investigation doesn’t necessarily mean the end of Trump’s legal issues. “Mueller appears to have stayed carefully within his lane, sending cases that strayed from his core mission to US attorneys & DOJ divisions,” she tweeted. “These career prosecutors will work their investigations to a conclusion, even after Mueller closes shop.” And Aaron Blake of The Washington Post outlines what could happen to Mueller’s report once the attorney general has it. If you are not a subscriber to this newsletter, you can subscribe here. You can also join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt • Facebook Supported by letters The report’s release left readers with many questions and concerns. To the Editor: As much as so many people wanted to see the Mueller report show clear evidence of criminal activity on the part of President Trump and others, it appears that it hasn’t. The obsession of so many in the media, in Congress and in other places to find criminal behavior within the report’s 400-plus pages actually plays into Mr. Trump’s and his supporters’ hands. The reality is that stupidity, bad judgment, narcissism, lack of integrity and immoral or amoral behaviors aren’t crimes. But they aren’t the characteristics we want or need from our leaders. And this is what we should be focusing on.  The fastest path to removing Mr. Trump from office is through elections and not through finding criminal misconduct. Let’s not continue with our obsession with finding criminal behavior, though it probably exists, but rather focus on getting responsible leadership back to our nation. Let’s let him reinforce his lack of fitness as a leader, making sure more people understand and refuse to accept this. Anything else is meaningless activity. Dave BrockLaguna Beach, Calif. To the Editor: Attorney General William Barr again emphasizes that there was “no collusion” with Russia, as he did in his whitewashed four-page summary of Robert Mueller’s report. If that’s the case, would the attorney general, President Trump or anybody who knows the facts please explain why so many Trump campaign officials, advisers, family members and high-level appointees had so many contacts with so many Russians, and then in many cases lied about these contacts under oath? And he says there was no obstruction. If that’s the case, why did the president remove so many senior Justice Department and F.B.I. officials who were involved in the Russia investigation? Why did he fire James Comey as F.B.I. director? And why did he craft the finely worded and completely misleading press release about the Trump Tower meeting his son had with Russian operatives? That’s what the American public needs to know. Why?  Daniel FinkBeverly Hills, Calif. To the Editor: Now that the Mueller report has been released, the devil — or in this case, the obstruction of justice — is truly in the details. The chasm between the actual report and the attorney general’s four-page summary is breathtaking in terms of how the summary elides the specifics of President Trump’s repeated efforts to stymie the probe into efforts to cover up the investigation into Russian collusion.  Further, the more one reads of the report, the clearer it becomes that Congress must pick up where the special counsel’s limited-in-scope investigation left off to once and for all get to the bottom of just how utterly tainted this presidency is. Mark GodesChelsea, Mass. To the Editor: Let us not forget that the intelligence community knew of interference in the presidential campaign by the Russians during the summer of 2016. Once elected with this foreign assistance, President Trump should have insisted on shoring up our security against future incursions by Russian malefactors. Instead, he began to obstruct, deny, obfuscate and lash out at his critics. Not the actions of an innocent man, and certainly not what a legitimately elected president does to protect his country. Donna MastrandreaNew York To the Editor:  After watching the news conference by Attorney General William Barr, all I can think of is … are you kidding me? Really, Mr. Barr? Really? Am I the only person who thinks that his statement sounded just like the tweets that President Trump has been sending all morning (“No Collusion — No Obstruction!”)? I am so appalled that the attorney general allowed Mr. Trump to use him as a personal messenger. As an American, I feel betrayed and disrespected by our attorney general. Marielys Camacho-ReyesHaines City, Fla.

Supported by letters The report’s release left readers with many questions and concerns. To the Editor: As much as so many people wanted to see the Mueller report show clear evidence of criminal activity on the part of President Trump and others, it appears that it hasn’t. The obsession of so many in the media, in Congress and in other places to find criminal behavior within the report’s 400-plus pages actually plays into Mr. Trump’s and his supporters’ hands. The reality is that stupidity, bad judgment, narcissism, lack of integrity and immoral or amoral behaviors aren’t crimes. But they aren’t the characteristics we want or need from our leaders. And this is what we should be focusing on.  The fastest path to removing Mr. Trump from office is through elections and not through finding criminal misconduct. Let’s not continue with our obsession with finding criminal behavior, though it probably exists, but rather focus on getting responsible leadership back to our nation. Let’s let him reinforce his lack of fitness as a leader, making sure more people understand and refuse to accept this. Anything else is meaningless activity. Dave BrockLaguna Beach, Calif. To the Editor: Attorney General William Barr again emphasizes that there was “no collusion” with Russia, as he did in his whitewashed four-page summary of Robert Mueller’s report. If that’s the case, would the attorney general, President Trump or anybody who knows the facts please explain why so many Trump campaign officials, advisers, family members and high-level appointees had so many contacts with so many Russians, and then in many cases lied about these contacts under oath? And he says there was no obstruction. If that’s the case, why did the president remove so many senior Justice Department and F.B.I. officials who were involved in the Russia investigation? Why did he fire James Comey as F.B.I. director? And why did he craft the finely worded and completely misleading press release about the Trump Tower meeting his son had with Russian operatives? That’s what the American public needs to know. Why?  Daniel FinkBeverly Hills, Calif. To the Editor: Now that the Mueller report has been released, the devil — or in this case, the obstruction of justice — is truly in the details. The chasm between the actual report and the attorney general’s four-page summary is breathtaking in terms of how the summary elides the specifics of President Trump’s repeated efforts to stymie the probe into efforts to cover up the investigation into Russian collusion.  Further, the more one reads of the report, the clearer it becomes that Congress must pick up where the special counsel’s limited-in-scope investigation left off to once and for all get to the bottom of just how utterly tainted this presidency is. Mark GodesChelsea, Mass. To the Editor: Let us not forget that the intelligence community knew of interference in the presidential campaign by the Russians during the summer of 2016. Once elected with this foreign assistance, President Trump should have insisted on shoring up our security against future incursions by Russian malefactors. Instead, he began to obstruct, deny, obfuscate and lash out at his critics. Not the actions of an innocent man, and certainly not what a legitimately elected president does to protect his country. Donna MastrandreaNew York To the Editor:  After watching the news conference by Attorney General William Barr, all I can think of is … are you kidding me? Really, Mr. Barr? Really? Am I the only person who thinks that his statement sounded just like the tweets that President Trump has been sending all morning (“No Collusion — No Obstruction!”)? I am so appalled that the attorney general allowed Mr. Trump to use him as a personal messenger. As an American, I feel betrayed and disrespected by our attorney general. Marielys Camacho-ReyesHaines City, Fla.Supported by By Reuters (Reuters) - There are several aspects of Special Counsel Robert Mueller's investigation into Russia's role in the 2016 U.S. election campaign that were not previously known until the release of his report on Thursday. TRUMP'S REACTION TO APPOINTMENT OF SPECIAL COUNSEL U.S. President Donald Trump believed the appointment of a special counsel to take over an active federal investigation would spell the end of his presidency, according to Mueller's report.  When then-Attorney General Jeff Sessions told Trump of Mueller's appointment on May 17, 2017, the report said, Trump slumped back in his chair and said: "Oh my God. This is terrible. This is the end of my presidency. I'm fucked." Trump asked Sessions, whom he had berated for months for recusing himself from the investigation of Russian interference in the election: "How could you let this happen, Jeff?" and told Sessions he had let him down. Trump told Sessions he should resign, and Sessions agreed to do so. When Sessions delivered his resignation letter to Trump the following day, Trump put the letter in his pocket but said he wanted Sessions to stay on the job. That alarmed chief of staff Reince Priebus and senior advisor Steve Bannon, who worried Trump would use the letter to control the Department of Justice, and they tried to return it to Sessions. Trump took the letter with him on a trip to the Middle East, where he showed it to several senior advisers and asked them what he should do about it. On May 30, he finally returned the letter to Sessions with a note saying: "Not accepted." THE PRESIDENTIAL INTERVIEW THAT WASN'T Mueller tried for more than a year to interview Trump, but in the end Trump refused. Trump provided written answers on some Russia-related topics, but did not agree to answer questions about possible obstruction of justice or events that took place during the presidential transition. Mueller said he thought he had the legal authority to order Trump to testify before a grand jury, but he decided not to take that course because of the "substantial delay that such an investigative step would likely produce at a late stage in our investigation." TRUMP'S EFFORTS TO FIRE MUELLER Trump tried to get Mueller fired in June 2017, shortly after he was appointed, according to the 448-page report. Trump called then-White House counsel Don McGahn twice and directed him to order Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein to fire Mueller on the grounds that he had conflicts of interest.  McGahn felt "trapped," but did not carry out the order, deciding that he would rather resign, Mueller said.  Other White House advisers later talked McGahn out of resigning, and Trump did not follow up to ask whether McGahn had fulfilled his directive. Trump pressured McGahn to deny that these events took place when they surfaced in news accounts in January 2018, but McGahn refused, according to Mueller's report, some of which was blacked out to protect some sensitive information.  TRUMP'S EFFORTS TO LIMIT THE INVESTIGATION Trump also enlisted his former campaign manager, Corey Lewandowksi, to try to narrow the investigation's scope. The report said Trump asked Lewandowski in June 2017 to tell Sessions that he should publicly announce that the Russia probe was "very unfair" to the president, say Trump had done nothing wrong, and limit Mueller's probe into interference in future elections, not the one that had put him in the White House. A month later, Trump asked Lewandowski about the status of his request and Lewandowski assured Trump he would deliver the message soon. Trump then publicly criticized Sessions in a New York Times interview and a series of Twitter messages. Mueller says Lewandowski did not want to deliver the message to Sessions, so he asked senior White House official Rick Dearborn to speak to him. Dearborn also did not want to carry out the task. Ultimately, the message never reached Sessions. MANAFORT'S EFFORTS TO MONETIZE THE CAMPAIGN Mueller found that campaign chairman Paul Manafort's efforts to work with his former business partners in Ukraine were greater than previously known, as he tried to use his insider status on the campaign to collect on debts owed for his past work by Oleg Deripaska, an oligarch who is close to Russian President Vladimir Putin. Shortly after he joined the campaign in the spring of 2016, Manafort directed his deputy Rick Gates to share internal polling data and other campaign materials with Konstantin Kilimnik, a former Ukrainian business partner, with the understanding that it would get passed on to Deripaska, the report said.  During an August 2016 meeting in New York, Manafort told Kilimnik about the campaign's efforts to win the battleground states of Michigan, Pennsylvania, Wisconsin and Minnesota, the report said. Trump ended up winning three of those states in the November election.  Manafort worked with his Ukrainian allies until the spring of 2018, after he had been indicted by Mueller, to promote a peace plan that would have split the country in two. These efforts did not constitute coordination between the campaign and Russian efforts to disrupt the election, Mueller found. Manafort urged Gates not to plead guilty after they were both indicted by Mueller, apparently believing that they would be pardoned by the president if they did not cooperate with investigators. Trump's numerous sympathetic statements before and during Manafort's criminal trial could be interpreted as an effort to sway the outcome, but they also could be interpreted as a sign that he genuinely felt sorry for Manafort, Mueller said. PLAN FOR U.S.-RUSSIA RECONCILIATION Relations between Washington and Moscow had deteriorated under two previous administrations and the United States had imposed sanctions on Russia. Following Trump's election victory, Russian financier Kirill Dmitriev worked on a proposal to improve ties with Rick Gerson, a hedge fund manager who is friends with Trump son-in-law Jared Kushner. Dmitriev runs Russia's sovereign wealth fund and reports directly to Putin. Gerson gave the plan to Kushner before Trump was sworn in, Mueller's report said, and Kushner gave copies to Bannon and then-Secretary of State Rex Tillerson.  After Trump took office in January 2017, Dmitriev told Gerson that his "boss" - an apparent reference to Putin - wanted to know if there was a reaction to the proposal, which called for cooperation on terrorism, weapons of mass destruction, and economic matters. When Putin and Trump spoke by phone, Dmitriev told Gerson that their plan had "played an important role."  Gerson told Mueller's team that he acted as an intermediary between Trump and Russia on his own initiative, not at the request of Trump's aides.  (Compiled by Andy Sullivan; editing by Grant McCool)

Supported by By Reuters (Reuters) - There are several aspects of Special Counsel Robert Mueller's investigation into Russia's role in the 2016 U.S. election campaign that were not previously known until the release of his report on Thursday. TRUMP'S REACTION TO APPOINTMENT OF SPECIAL COUNSEL U.S. President Donald Trump believed the appointment of a special counsel to take over an active federal investigation would spell the end of his presidency, according to Mueller's report.  When then-Attorney General Jeff Sessions told Trump of Mueller's appointment on May 17, 2017, the report said, Trump slumped back in his chair and said: "Oh my God. This is terrible. This is the end of my presidency. I'm fucked." Trump asked Sessions, whom he had berated for months for recusing himself from the investigation of Russian interference in the election: "How could you let this happen, Jeff?" and told Sessions he had let him down. Trump told Sessions he should resign, and Sessions agreed to do so. When Sessions delivered his resignation letter to Trump the following day, Trump put the letter in his pocket but said he wanted Sessions to stay on the job. That alarmed chief of staff Reince Priebus and senior advisor Steve Bannon, who worried Trump would use the letter to control the Department of Justice, and they tried to return it to Sessions. Trump took the letter with him on a trip to the Middle East, where he showed it to several senior advisers and asked them what he should do about it. On May 30, he finally returned the letter to Sessions with a note saying: "Not accepted." THE PRESIDENTIAL INTERVIEW THAT WASN'T Mueller tried for more than a year to interview Trump, but in the end Trump refused. Trump provided written answers on some Russia-related topics, but did not agree to answer questions about possible obstruction of justice or events that took place during the presidential transition. Mueller said he thought he had the legal authority to order Trump to testify before a grand jury, but he decided not to take that course because of the "substantial delay that such an investigative step would likely produce at a late stage in our investigation." TRUMP'S EFFORTS TO FIRE MUELLER Trump tried to get Mueller fired in June 2017, shortly after he was appointed, according to the 448-page report. Trump called then-White House counsel Don McGahn twice and directed him to order Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein to fire Mueller on the grounds that he had conflicts of interest.  McGahn felt "trapped," but did not carry out the order, deciding that he would rather resign, Mueller said.  Other White House advisers later talked McGahn out of resigning, and Trump did not follow up to ask whether McGahn had fulfilled his directive. Trump pressured McGahn to deny that these events took place when they surfaced in news accounts in January 2018, but McGahn refused, according to Mueller's report, some of which was blacked out to protect some sensitive information.  TRUMP'S EFFORTS TO LIMIT THE INVESTIGATION Trump also enlisted his former campaign manager, Corey Lewandowksi, to try to narrow the investigation's scope. The report said Trump asked Lewandowski in June 2017 to tell Sessions that he should publicly announce that the Russia probe was "very unfair" to the president, say Trump had done nothing wrong, and limit Mueller's probe into interference in future elections, not the one that had put him in the White House. A month later, Trump asked Lewandowski about the status of his request and Lewandowski assured Trump he would deliver the message soon. Trump then publicly criticized Sessions in a New York Times interview and a series of Twitter messages. Mueller says Lewandowski did not want to deliver the message to Sessions, so he asked senior White House official Rick Dearborn to speak to him. Dearborn also did not want to carry out the task. Ultimately, the message never reached Sessions. MANAFORT'S EFFORTS TO MONETIZE THE CAMPAIGN Mueller found that campaign chairman Paul Manafort's efforts to work with his former business partners in Ukraine were greater than previously known, as he tried to use his insider status on the campaign to collect on debts owed for his past work by Oleg Deripaska, an oligarch who is close to Russian President Vladimir Putin. Shortly after he joined the campaign in the spring of 2016, Manafort directed his deputy Rick Gates to share internal polling data and other campaign materials with Konstantin Kilimnik, a former Ukrainian business partner, with the understanding that it would get passed on to Deripaska, the report said.  During an August 2016 meeting in New York, Manafort told Kilimnik about the campaign's efforts to win the battleground states of Michigan, Pennsylvania, Wisconsin and Minnesota, the report said. Trump ended up winning three of those states in the November election.  Manafort worked with his Ukrainian allies until the spring of 2018, after he had been indicted by Mueller, to promote a peace plan that would have split the country in two. These efforts did not constitute coordination between the campaign and Russian efforts to disrupt the election, Mueller found. Manafort urged Gates not to plead guilty after they were both indicted by Mueller, apparently believing that they would be pardoned by the president if they did not cooperate with investigators. Trump's numerous sympathetic statements before and during Manafort's criminal trial could be interpreted as an effort to sway the outcome, but they also could be interpreted as a sign that he genuinely felt sorry for Manafort, Mueller said. PLAN FOR U.S.-RUSSIA RECONCILIATION Relations between Washington and Moscow had deteriorated under two previous administrations and the United States had imposed sanctions on Russia. Following Trump's election victory, Russian financier Kirill Dmitriev worked on a proposal to improve ties with Rick Gerson, a hedge fund manager who is friends with Trump son-in-law Jared Kushner. Dmitriev runs Russia's sovereign wealth fund and reports directly to Putin. Gerson gave the plan to Kushner before Trump was sworn in, Mueller's report said, and Kushner gave copies to Bannon and then-Secretary of State Rex Tillerson.  After Trump took office in January 2017, Dmitriev told Gerson that his "boss" - an apparent reference to Putin - wanted to know if there was a reaction to the proposal, which called for cooperation on terrorism, weapons of mass destruction, and economic matters. When Putin and Trump spoke by phone, Dmitriev told Gerson that their plan had "played an important role."  Gerson told Mueller's team that he acted as an intermediary between Trump and Russia on his own initiative, not at the request of Trump's aides.  (Compiled by Andy Sullivan; editing by Grant McCool)Supported by By Michael S. Schmidt and Maggie Haberman WASHINGTON — President Trump’s lawyer, Rudolph W. Giuliani, attacked the credibility of a former White House counsel on Friday, saying his account of how Mr. Trump told him to remove the special counsel was inaccurate. Mr. Giuliani’s statement was the most extensive pushback by the president’s lawyers against the former counsel, Donald F. McGahn II, who cooperated extensively with the special counsel’s investigators. The report detailing the findings of the investigation, released on Thursday, also included several damning examples of how Mr. Trump tried to interfere with the investigation, like Mr. McGahn’s account. “It can’t be taken at face value,” Mr. Giuliani said in an interview. “It could be the product of an inaccurate recollection or could be the product of something else.” Mr. McGahn’s lawyer, William A. Burck, pushed back on Mr. Giuliani’s attack. “It’s a mystery why Rudy Giuliani feels the need to relitigate incidents the attorney general and deputy attorney general have concluded were not obstruction,” Mr. Burck said. “But they are accurately described in the report.” The special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, examined a wide range of actions that Mr. Trump took as president that could be considered obstruction of justice. Investigators relied heavily on Mr. McGahn, who provided detailed accounts of what Mr. Trump did and said behind closed doors as he tried to maintain control over the Russia investigation. Among the damaging episodes was one based largely on Mr. McGahn that laid out how Mr. Trump told him in June 2017 to have Mr. Mueller ousted because he had several conflict of interest issues. Mr. McGahn believed the conflicts had little merit and told senior White House officials that he was going to resign instead of carrying out Mr. Trump’s order. Mr. Giuliani said that the president never asked Mr. McGahn to have Mr. Mueller removed, adding that Mr. Trump was simply venting about his frustrations with the special counsel’s investigation, which had cast a cloud over his presidency. “If it were subject to cross-examination or analysis, it would be a different version,” Mr. Giuliani said. On the day Mr. McGahn threatened to quit, Mr. Burck told him to hold back on telling other White House officials about what the president was asking him to do. Mr. Burck wanted to stop Mr. McGahn from roping other White House officials into the obstruction of justice investigation and from creating the impression that Mr. McGahn was willing to help Mr. Trump oust Mr. Mueller. Because Mr. McGahn mainly discussed the issue with Mr. Burck, there are not many witnesses to back him up. In an effort to substantiate Mr. McGahn’s credibility, Mr. Mueller’s team obtained Mr. McGahn’s phone records from the episode. Although Mr. McGahn told investigators that there were two conversations he had with Mr. Trump, the records show only one call, according the report. “While McGahn was not certain of the specific dates of the calls,” the report said, “McGahn was confident that he had at least two phone conversations with the president in which the president directed him to call the acting attorney general to have the special counsel removed.” The report said that investigators accepted Mr. McGahn’s account because he was “a credible witness with no motive to lie or exaggerate given the position he held in the White House.” In attacking Mr. McGahn, Mr. Giuliani went further than the president had earlier Friday, when he walked up to the line of calling Mr. McGahn out on Twitter. Mr. Trump posted that “statements are made about me by certain people in the Crazy Mueller Report, in itself written by 18 Angry Democrat Trump Haters, which are fabricated & totally untrue.” “Watch out for people that take so-called ‘notes,’ when the notes never existed until needed,” the president tweeted. Michael S. Schmidt reported from Washington, and Maggie Haberman from New York.    

Supported by By Michael S. Schmidt and Maggie Haberman WASHINGTON — President Trump’s lawyer, Rudolph W. Giuliani, attacked the credibility of a former White House counsel on Friday, saying his account of how Mr. Trump told him to remove the special counsel was inaccurate. Mr. Giuliani’s statement was the most extensive pushback by the president’s lawyers against the former counsel, Donald F. McGahn II, who cooperated extensively with the special counsel’s investigators. The report detailing the findings of the investigation, released on Thursday, also included several damning examples of how Mr. Trump tried to interfere with the investigation, like Mr. McGahn’s account. “It can’t be taken at face value,” Mr. Giuliani said in an interview. “It could be the product of an inaccurate recollection or could be the product of something else.” Mr. McGahn’s lawyer, William A. Burck, pushed back on Mr. Giuliani’s attack. “It’s a mystery why Rudy Giuliani feels the need to relitigate incidents the attorney general and deputy attorney general have concluded were not obstruction,” Mr. Burck said. “But they are accurately described in the report.” The special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, examined a wide range of actions that Mr. Trump took as president that could be considered obstruction of justice. Investigators relied heavily on Mr. McGahn, who provided detailed accounts of what Mr. Trump did and said behind closed doors as he tried to maintain control over the Russia investigation. Among the damaging episodes was one based largely on Mr. McGahn that laid out how Mr. Trump told him in June 2017 to have Mr. Mueller ousted because he had several conflict of interest issues. Mr. McGahn believed the conflicts had little merit and told senior White House officials that he was going to resign instead of carrying out Mr. Trump’s order. Mr. Giuliani said that the president never asked Mr. McGahn to have Mr. Mueller removed, adding that Mr. Trump was simply venting about his frustrations with the special counsel’s investigation, which had cast a cloud over his presidency. “If it were subject to cross-examination or analysis, it would be a different version,” Mr. Giuliani said. On the day Mr. McGahn threatened to quit, Mr. Burck told him to hold back on telling other White House officials about what the president was asking him to do. Mr. Burck wanted to stop Mr. McGahn from roping other White House officials into the obstruction of justice investigation and from creating the impression that Mr. McGahn was willing to help Mr. Trump oust Mr. Mueller. Because Mr. McGahn mainly discussed the issue with Mr. Burck, there are not many witnesses to back him up. In an effort to substantiate Mr. McGahn’s credibility, Mr. Mueller’s team obtained Mr. McGahn’s phone records from the episode. Although Mr. McGahn told investigators that there were two conversations he had with Mr. Trump, the records show only one call, according the report. “While McGahn was not certain of the specific dates of the calls,” the report said, “McGahn was confident that he had at least two phone conversations with the president in which the president directed him to call the acting attorney general to have the special counsel removed.” The report said that investigators accepted Mr. McGahn’s account because he was “a credible witness with no motive to lie or exaggerate given the position he held in the White House.” In attacking Mr. McGahn, Mr. Giuliani went further than the president had earlier Friday, when he walked up to the line of calling Mr. McGahn out on Twitter. Mr. Trump posted that “statements are made about me by certain people in the Crazy Mueller Report, in itself written by 18 Angry Democrat Trump Haters, which are fabricated & totally untrue.” “Watch out for people that take so-called ‘notes,’ when the notes never existed until needed,” the president tweeted. Michael S. Schmidt reported from Washington, and Maggie Haberman from New York.    Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — Democrats clamoured for the speedy release of U.S. Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s findings of his probe into whether President Donald Trump's 2016 campaign colluded with Russia. Now they finally have them, and they are confronted with a choice - stay on the attack or move on.  Progressives in the party used the report to renew their calls for action, but there was little immediate consensus on how to move forward.  Billionaire Tom Steyer, who has pumped millions of dollars of his own money into a campaign calling for Trump’s removal from office, told Reuters that lawmakers in the Democratic-led House of Representatives should begin the process of impeaching Trump, a Republican, based on the evidence amassed by Mueller.  Mueller found no evidence of collusion between members of Trump's campaign and Russians, despite numerous contacts, but he amassed a wealth of evidence he said showed the president had sought to impede or control the FBI investigation. He stopped short of concluding that Trump had committed a crime but noted that the U.S. Congress had the power to address that issue. Democratic strategists said Democrats in the House, spurred on by progressives in the chamber, would continue their congressional investigations into Trump, but that Democratic presidential candidates, who hope to appeal to moderates and independents next year, are likely to take a less aggressive approach. "I don’t think Bob Mueller’s report is going to make a difference in Lordstown," said Robin Winston, a former chairman of the Indiana Democratic Party, referring to the auto plant in Ohio that auto giant General Motors shuttered last month.  Winston said economic concerns were far more pressing on voters’ minds than the Russia probe and that breathless coverage of the nearly two-year-old probe had left voters “fatigued.” Opinion polls show that the U.S. public has also largely made up its mind about the probe before the report's release on Thursday.  A Reuters/Ipsos poll conducted last month after Mueller’s conclusions were first made public showed that about half of the country still believed Trump worked with Russia to influence the 2016 election. More than half said they believe Trump tried to block the probe.  Democrats in the House signaled their efforts to investigate Trump's actions would continue. It is unclear, however, what their efforts will yield. Any attempt to force Trump from office would likely be thwarted by the Republican-controlled Senate.  The prospect of impeaching Trump has largely been downplayed by Democrats since House Speaker Nancy Pelosi argued it would be counter-productive. But Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, a popular progressive Democratic lawmaker, raised the prospect again on Thursday in a tweet. "Many know I take no pleasure in discussions of impeachment. I didn’t campaign on it, & rarely discuss it unprompted," she said on Twitter. "But the report squarely puts this on our doorstep." ON THE KITCHEN TABLE Those bidding for the 2020 Democratic nomination took a more cautious path on Thursday. While many called for Mueller to testify before Congress, there was no mention of the "I word." "It is clear that Donald Trump wanted nothing more than to shut down the Mueller investigation," U.S. Senator Bernie Sanders, a Democratic candidate, said in a statement. "While we have more detail from today's report than before, Congress must continue its investigation into Trump's conduct and any foreign attempts to influence our election."  Democratic candidates are conscious that their voters are more interested in their positions on healthcare, the economy, immigration and climate change than whether or not Trump conspired with Russia or obstructed justice. Indeed, in a two-day swing through Iowa this week, Mayor Pete Buttigieg of South Bend, Indiana did not hear a question on the topic. That has been similar to the experience of other candidates who have campaigning in early voting states.  Buttigieg’s campaign said it has not been a subject on voters’ minds. Former U.S. congressman Beto O’Rourke may have summed up the field’s collective view most succinctly while campaigning last month.  "I think the American people are going to have a chance to decide this at the ballot box in November 2020, and perhaps that’s the best way for us to resolve these outstanding questions,” he said. Democrats could be heeding the lesson of last year’s congressional elections, when they won more than 40 House seats and gained control of the chamber. Successful candidates, particularly moderates, found traction in talking more about kitchen-table issues and less about Trump.  "The base gets ginned up – as a presidential candidate you have to decide whether you are going to cater to the base or take a longer view,” said Rodell Mollineau, who served as a top aide to former Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid.  (Reporting by James Oliphant; Editing by Paritosh Bansal, Ross Colvin and Cynthia Osterman)

Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — Democrats clamoured for the speedy release of U.S. Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s findings of his probe into whether President Donald Trump's 2016 campaign colluded with Russia. Now they finally have them, and they are confronted with a choice - stay on the attack or move on.  Progressives in the party used the report to renew their calls for action, but there was little immediate consensus on how to move forward.  Billionaire Tom Steyer, who has pumped millions of dollars of his own money into a campaign calling for Trump’s removal from office, told Reuters that lawmakers in the Democratic-led House of Representatives should begin the process of impeaching Trump, a Republican, based on the evidence amassed by Mueller.  Mueller found no evidence of collusion between members of Trump's campaign and Russians, despite numerous contacts, but he amassed a wealth of evidence he said showed the president had sought to impede or control the FBI investigation. He stopped short of concluding that Trump had committed a crime but noted that the U.S. Congress had the power to address that issue. Democratic strategists said Democrats in the House, spurred on by progressives in the chamber, would continue their congressional investigations into Trump, but that Democratic presidential candidates, who hope to appeal to moderates and independents next year, are likely to take a less aggressive approach. "I don’t think Bob Mueller’s report is going to make a difference in Lordstown," said Robin Winston, a former chairman of the Indiana Democratic Party, referring to the auto plant in Ohio that auto giant General Motors shuttered last month.  Winston said economic concerns were far more pressing on voters’ minds than the Russia probe and that breathless coverage of the nearly two-year-old probe had left voters “fatigued.” Opinion polls show that the U.S. public has also largely made up its mind about the probe before the report's release on Thursday.  A Reuters/Ipsos poll conducted last month after Mueller’s conclusions were first made public showed that about half of the country still believed Trump worked with Russia to influence the 2016 election. More than half said they believe Trump tried to block the probe.  Democrats in the House signaled their efforts to investigate Trump's actions would continue. It is unclear, however, what their efforts will yield. Any attempt to force Trump from office would likely be thwarted by the Republican-controlled Senate.  The prospect of impeaching Trump has largely been downplayed by Democrats since House Speaker Nancy Pelosi argued it would be counter-productive. But Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, a popular progressive Democratic lawmaker, raised the prospect again on Thursday in a tweet. "Many know I take no pleasure in discussions of impeachment. I didn’t campaign on it, & rarely discuss it unprompted," she said on Twitter. "But the report squarely puts this on our doorstep." ON THE KITCHEN TABLE Those bidding for the 2020 Democratic nomination took a more cautious path on Thursday. While many called for Mueller to testify before Congress, there was no mention of the "I word." "It is clear that Donald Trump wanted nothing more than to shut down the Mueller investigation," U.S. Senator Bernie Sanders, a Democratic candidate, said in a statement. "While we have more detail from today's report than before, Congress must continue its investigation into Trump's conduct and any foreign attempts to influence our election."  Democratic candidates are conscious that their voters are more interested in their positions on healthcare, the economy, immigration and climate change than whether or not Trump conspired with Russia or obstructed justice. Indeed, in a two-day swing through Iowa this week, Mayor Pete Buttigieg of South Bend, Indiana did not hear a question on the topic. That has been similar to the experience of other candidates who have campaigning in early voting states.  Buttigieg’s campaign said it has not been a subject on voters’ minds. Former U.S. congressman Beto O’Rourke may have summed up the field’s collective view most succinctly while campaigning last month.  "I think the American people are going to have a chance to decide this at the ballot box in November 2020, and perhaps that’s the best way for us to resolve these outstanding questions,” he said. Democrats could be heeding the lesson of last year’s congressional elections, when they won more than 40 House seats and gained control of the chamber. Successful candidates, particularly moderates, found traction in talking more about kitchen-table issues and less about Trump.  "The base gets ginned up – as a presidential candidate you have to decide whether you are going to cater to the base or take a longer view,” said Rodell Mollineau, who served as a top aide to former Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid.  (Reporting by James Oliphant; Editing by Paritosh Bansal, Ross Colvin and Cynthia Osterman)Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — Special counsel Robert Mueller's investigation of Russian interference in the 2016 election identified 10 instances of possible obstruction of justice by President Donald Trump. Mueller said in his report that he could not conclusively determine that Trump had committed a crime or that he hadn't. A look at the 10 instances: ___ PRESSURE ON COMEY TO END PROBE OF MICHAEL FLYNN This includes the president's statement to then-FBI Director James Comey regarding the investigation of then-national security adviser Michael Flynn. Trump told Comey: "I hope you can see your way to letting this go." ___ PRESIDENT'S REACTION TO THE CONTINUING RUSSIA INVESTIGATION Among the evidence is the president telling then-White House counsel Don McGahn to stop Attorney General Jeff Sessions from recusing himself from the Russia investigation and Trump's subsequent anger at Sessions. Trump also contacted Comey and other intelligence agency leaders to ask them to push back publicly on the suggestion that Trump had any connection to the Russian election-interference effort. ___ FIRING OF COMEY AND AFTERMATH Mueller's report says "substantial evidence" indicates Trump's decision to fire Comey in May 2017 was the result of the FBI director's unwillingness to say publicly that Trump was not personally under investigation. On the day after Trump fired Comey, the president told Russian officials that he had "faced great pressure because of Russia. That's taken off." ___ APPOINTMENT OF SPECIAL COUNSEL AND EFFORTS TO REMOVE HIM Trump reacted to news of Mueller's appointment by telling advisers that it was "the end of his presidency." The president told aides that Mueller had conflicts of interest and should have to step aside. His aides told Trump the asserted conflicts were meritless. Following media reports that Mueller's team was investigating whether the president had obstructed justice, Trump called then-White House counsel Don McGahn at home and directed him to have Mueller removed. McGahn refused. ____ FURTHER EFFORTS TO CURTAIL THE SPECIAL COUNSEL's INVESTIGATION Trump instructed former campaign manager Corey Lewandowski to have Sessions publicly announce that, notwithstanding his recusal from the Russia investigation, the investigation was "very unfair" to the president, the president had done nothing wrong, and Sessions planned to meet with Mueller to limit him to "investigating election meddling for future elections." ___ EFFORTS TO PREVENT PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF EVIDENCE In summer of 2017, Trump learned that the news media planned to report on the June 2016 meeting at Trump Tower between senior campaign officials and Russians offering derogatory information about Hillary Clinton. The president directed aides not to publicly disclose the emails setting up the meeting. Before the emails became public, the president also edited a press statement for Donald Trump Jr. by deleting a line that acknowledged that the meeting was "with an individual who (Trump Jr.) was told might have information helpful to the campaign." ___ ADDITIONAL EFFORTS TO HAVE SESSIONS TAKE CONTROL OF INVESTIGATION At several points in between July 2017 and December 2017, Trump tried to get Sessions to declare that he was no longer recused from the Russia investigation and would assert control over it. The report says there's evidence that one purpose of asking Sessions to step in was so that the attorney general would restrict the investigation's scope. ___ TRUMP ORDERS WHITE HOUSE COUNSEL TO DENY THAT PRESIDENT TRIED TO FIRE MUELLER In an Oval Office meeting in February 2018, Trump told McGahn to "correct" a New York Times story that reported Trump had earlier instructed McGahn to fire Mueller. Trump also asked why McGahn had told Mueller's investigators about the directive to remove Mueller. McGahn told Trump he had to tell the investigators the truth. ___ TRUMP'S ACTIONS TOWARD, FLYNN, MANAFORT AND OTHER POSSIBLE WITNESSES Mueller looked at whether Trump's sympathetic messages to Flynn, former campaign manager Paul Manafort and others were intended to limit their cooperation with Mueller's investigation. When Flynn began cooperating with prosecutors, Trump passed word through his lawyer that he still had warm feeling for Flynn and asked for a "heads up" if Flynn knew of information implicating Trump. Trump praised Manafort during and after his criminal convictions, and refused to rule out a pardon for his former campaign chairman. ___ TRUMP ACTIONS TOWARD MICHAEL COHEN Mueller noted that Trump's conduct toward Cohen, a former Trump Organization executive, changed from praise to castigation after Cohen began cooperating with prosecutors. The evidence could "support an inference that the president used inducements in the form of positive messages in an effort to get Cohen not to cooperate, and then turned to attacks and intimidation to deter" cooperation and undermine Cohen's credibility, Mueller wrote. ___ For complete coverage of the Mueller report, go to https://www.apnews.com/TrumpInvestigations

Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — Special counsel Robert Mueller's investigation of Russian interference in the 2016 election identified 10 instances of possible obstruction of justice by President Donald Trump. Mueller said in his report that he could not conclusively determine that Trump had committed a crime or that he hadn't. A look at the 10 instances: ___ PRESSURE ON COMEY TO END PROBE OF MICHAEL FLYNN This includes the president's statement to then-FBI Director James Comey regarding the investigation of then-national security adviser Michael Flynn. Trump told Comey: "I hope you can see your way to letting this go." ___ PRESIDENT'S REACTION TO THE CONTINUING RUSSIA INVESTIGATION Among the evidence is the president telling then-White House counsel Don McGahn to stop Attorney General Jeff Sessions from recusing himself from the Russia investigation and Trump's subsequent anger at Sessions. Trump also contacted Comey and other intelligence agency leaders to ask them to push back publicly on the suggestion that Trump had any connection to the Russian election-interference effort. ___ FIRING OF COMEY AND AFTERMATH Mueller's report says "substantial evidence" indicates Trump's decision to fire Comey in May 2017 was the result of the FBI director's unwillingness to say publicly that Trump was not personally under investigation. On the day after Trump fired Comey, the president told Russian officials that he had "faced great pressure because of Russia. That's taken off." ___ APPOINTMENT OF SPECIAL COUNSEL AND EFFORTS TO REMOVE HIM Trump reacted to news of Mueller's appointment by telling advisers that it was "the end of his presidency." The president told aides that Mueller had conflicts of interest and should have to step aside. His aides told Trump the asserted conflicts were meritless. Following media reports that Mueller's team was investigating whether the president had obstructed justice, Trump called then-White House counsel Don McGahn at home and directed him to have Mueller removed. McGahn refused. ____ FURTHER EFFORTS TO CURTAIL THE SPECIAL COUNSEL's INVESTIGATION Trump instructed former campaign manager Corey Lewandowski to have Sessions publicly announce that, notwithstanding his recusal from the Russia investigation, the investigation was "very unfair" to the president, the president had done nothing wrong, and Sessions planned to meet with Mueller to limit him to "investigating election meddling for future elections." ___ EFFORTS TO PREVENT PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF EVIDENCE In summer of 2017, Trump learned that the news media planned to report on the June 2016 meeting at Trump Tower between senior campaign officials and Russians offering derogatory information about Hillary Clinton. The president directed aides not to publicly disclose the emails setting up the meeting. Before the emails became public, the president also edited a press statement for Donald Trump Jr. by deleting a line that acknowledged that the meeting was "with an individual who (Trump Jr.) was told might have information helpful to the campaign." ___ ADDITIONAL EFFORTS TO HAVE SESSIONS TAKE CONTROL OF INVESTIGATION At several points in between July 2017 and December 2017, Trump tried to get Sessions to declare that he was no longer recused from the Russia investigation and would assert control over it. The report says there's evidence that one purpose of asking Sessions to step in was so that the attorney general would restrict the investigation's scope. ___ TRUMP ORDERS WHITE HOUSE COUNSEL TO DENY THAT PRESIDENT TRIED TO FIRE MUELLER In an Oval Office meeting in February 2018, Trump told McGahn to "correct" a New York Times story that reported Trump had earlier instructed McGahn to fire Mueller. Trump also asked why McGahn had told Mueller's investigators about the directive to remove Mueller. McGahn told Trump he had to tell the investigators the truth. ___ TRUMP'S ACTIONS TOWARD, FLYNN, MANAFORT AND OTHER POSSIBLE WITNESSES Mueller looked at whether Trump's sympathetic messages to Flynn, former campaign manager Paul Manafort and others were intended to limit their cooperation with Mueller's investigation. When Flynn began cooperating with prosecutors, Trump passed word through his lawyer that he still had warm feeling for Flynn and asked for a "heads up" if Flynn knew of information implicating Trump. Trump praised Manafort during and after his criminal convictions, and refused to rule out a pardon for his former campaign chairman. ___ TRUMP ACTIONS TOWARD MICHAEL COHEN Mueller noted that Trump's conduct toward Cohen, a former Trump Organization executive, changed from praise to castigation after Cohen began cooperating with prosecutors. The evidence could "support an inference that the president used inducements in the form of positive messages in an effort to get Cohen not to cooperate, and then turned to attacks and intimidation to deter" cooperation and undermine Cohen's credibility, Mueller wrote. ___ For complete coverage of the Mueller report, go to https://www.apnews.com/TrumpInvestigationsSupported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — The Latest on special counsel Robert Mueller's report and President Donald Trump (all times local): 3 p.m. The White House says President Donald Trump played golf Friday with conservative commentator Rush Limbaugh and a couple of unidentified friends. Trump is spending the Easter weekend at his private Mar-a-Lago club along with the first lady. The foursome played at Trump International Golf Club in West Palm Beach, Florida. The trip comes one day after a redacted special counsel report found no Trump campaign collusion with Russia around the 2016 election, but issued no clear verdict on obstruction, while detailing several instances of Trump seeking to squash the investigation. Prior to golfing, Trump lashed out through tweets at people who cooperated with Robert Mueller's team. He said statements in the report made by some were "fabricated & totally untrue." Trump struck a much harsher tone than the day before when he marked the report's release by tweeting "game over." ___ 9:25 a.m. President Donald Trump says some statements made in special counsel Robert Mueller's Russia report are "fabricated & totally untrue." Tweeting Friday from his Mar-a-Lago club in Palm Beach, Florida, Trump dubbed the more than 400-page document the "Crazy Mueller Report." He's alleging that "notes" some people said they took after meetings with him didn't exist until they were created for the Mueller investigation. Trump says he never agreed to testify because he didn't need to respond to what he says were "total bullshit" statements made about him in the report to make someone look good or make him look bad. __ 9:10 a.m. The chairman of the House Judiciary Committee has issued a subpoena for special counsel Robert Mueller's report and the underlying materials. Democratic Rep. Jerry Nadler of New York is asking for the information by May 1. That's also the day when Attorney General William Barr is scheduled to testify before a Senate committee and one day before Barr is set to appear before Nadler's committee. The subpoena is the opening shot in what could be a lengthy legal battle. If the Justice Department doesn't respond, Democrats could hold officials in contempt of Congress or eventually fight the battle in court. The Judiciary Committee voted 24-17 earlier this month to give Nadler permission to issue subpoenas for the final report, its exhibits and any underlying evidence or materials prepared for Mueller's investigation. ___ 8 a.m. President Donald Trump's spokeswoman Sarah Sanders is pushing back on allegations that special counsel Robert Mueller's Russia report exposed a culture of lying at the White House. Sanders also disputed allegations that she misled the media when she said that "countless" members of the FBI had lost confidence in FBI Director James Comey, which led to his firing. Sanders had told reporters after Comey's 2017 dismissal that she had heard from "countless" members of the FBI who welcomed the president's decision. She told ABC's "Good Morning America" on Friday that her word "countless" was a "slip of the tongue" made in the "heat of the moment." Democratic House Judiciary Chairman Jerrold Nadler, also speaking on ABC, said the Mueller report clearly outlines "a culture of lying" inside the White House. __ 7:40 a.m. House Judiciary Chairman Jerrold Nadler says he expects to issue a subpoena within a few hours for special counsel Robert Mueller's report on Russian election meddling and President Donald Trump. The New York Democrat told ABC's "Good Morning America" Friday that he is preparing a subpoena not only for Mueller's complete report, but also for the underlying documents, including grand jury evidence. He said, "We need the entire report, unredacted, and the underlying documents in order to make informed decisions." Attorney General William Barr sent the Mueller report to Congress, with some material redacted, including grand jury information. Grand jury evidence, including witness interviews, is normally off limits but can be obtained in court. __ 12:12 a.m. President Donald Trump sought the removal of special counsel Robert Mueller, discouraged witnesses from cooperating with prosecutors and prodded aides to mislead the public on his behalf. That's according to a hugely anticipated report from Mueller that details multiple efforts the president made to curtail a Russia probe he feared would cripple his administration. Mueller writes that Trump's attempts to seize control of the investigation, and directions to others on how to influence it, "were mostly unsuccessful, but that is largely because the persons who surrounded the President declined to carry out orders or accede to his requests." Mueller's two-volume, 448-page redacted report was released Thursday.

Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — The Latest on special counsel Robert Mueller's report and President Donald Trump (all times local): 3 p.m. The White House says President Donald Trump played golf Friday with conservative commentator Rush Limbaugh and a couple of unidentified friends. Trump is spending the Easter weekend at his private Mar-a-Lago club along with the first lady. The foursome played at Trump International Golf Club in West Palm Beach, Florida. The trip comes one day after a redacted special counsel report found no Trump campaign collusion with Russia around the 2016 election, but issued no clear verdict on obstruction, while detailing several instances of Trump seeking to squash the investigation. Prior to golfing, Trump lashed out through tweets at people who cooperated with Robert Mueller's team. He said statements in the report made by some were "fabricated & totally untrue." Trump struck a much harsher tone than the day before when he marked the report's release by tweeting "game over." ___ 9:25 a.m. President Donald Trump says some statements made in special counsel Robert Mueller's Russia report are "fabricated & totally untrue." Tweeting Friday from his Mar-a-Lago club in Palm Beach, Florida, Trump dubbed the more than 400-page document the "Crazy Mueller Report." He's alleging that "notes" some people said they took after meetings with him didn't exist until they were created for the Mueller investigation. Trump says he never agreed to testify because he didn't need to respond to what he says were "total bullshit" statements made about him in the report to make someone look good or make him look bad. __ 9:10 a.m. The chairman of the House Judiciary Committee has issued a subpoena for special counsel Robert Mueller's report and the underlying materials. Democratic Rep. Jerry Nadler of New York is asking for the information by May 1. That's also the day when Attorney General William Barr is scheduled to testify before a Senate committee and one day before Barr is set to appear before Nadler's committee. The subpoena is the opening shot in what could be a lengthy legal battle. If the Justice Department doesn't respond, Democrats could hold officials in contempt of Congress or eventually fight the battle in court. The Judiciary Committee voted 24-17 earlier this month to give Nadler permission to issue subpoenas for the final report, its exhibits and any underlying evidence or materials prepared for Mueller's investigation. ___ 8 a.m. President Donald Trump's spokeswoman Sarah Sanders is pushing back on allegations that special counsel Robert Mueller's Russia report exposed a culture of lying at the White House. Sanders also disputed allegations that she misled the media when she said that "countless" members of the FBI had lost confidence in FBI Director James Comey, which led to his firing. Sanders had told reporters after Comey's 2017 dismissal that she had heard from "countless" members of the FBI who welcomed the president's decision. She told ABC's "Good Morning America" on Friday that her word "countless" was a "slip of the tongue" made in the "heat of the moment." Democratic House Judiciary Chairman Jerrold Nadler, also speaking on ABC, said the Mueller report clearly outlines "a culture of lying" inside the White House. __ 7:40 a.m. House Judiciary Chairman Jerrold Nadler says he expects to issue a subpoena within a few hours for special counsel Robert Mueller's report on Russian election meddling and President Donald Trump. The New York Democrat told ABC's "Good Morning America" Friday that he is preparing a subpoena not only for Mueller's complete report, but also for the underlying documents, including grand jury evidence. He said, "We need the entire report, unredacted, and the underlying documents in order to make informed decisions." Attorney General William Barr sent the Mueller report to Congress, with some material redacted, including grand jury information. Grand jury evidence, including witness interviews, is normally off limits but can be obtained in court. __ 12:12 a.m. President Donald Trump sought the removal of special counsel Robert Mueller, discouraged witnesses from cooperating with prosecutors and prodded aides to mislead the public on his behalf. That's according to a hugely anticipated report from Mueller that details multiple efforts the president made to curtail a Russia probe he feared would cripple his administration. Mueller writes that Trump's attempts to seize control of the investigation, and directions to others on how to influence it, "were mostly unsuccessful, but that is largely because the persons who surrounded the President declined to carry out orders or accede to his requests." Mueller's two-volume, 448-page redacted report was released Thursday.Supported by It mostly tells us more about what we already know to be true. By Ross Douthat Opinion Columnist Roughly four thousand, two hundred and twenty-seven Trump-era news cycles ago, there was a rather famous book called “Fire and Fury.” The author, Michael Wolff, used an interesting tactic to gain access to the Trump White House: He allowed his subjects, the president included, to believe that he was going to write a positive account of the Trump administration, and then used that access to produce an account of an administration in constant chaos, and a president who was understood by everyone around him to be unfit for the job. One way to approach the Mueller report, if your sense of civic duty requires you to approach it, is to see it as a more rigorous, capacious version of “Fire and Fury.” Mueller's exposé was backed by subpoena power rather than just sweet talk, but ultimately it delivers the same general portrait: Donald Trump as an amoral incompetent surrounded by grifters, misfits and his own overpromoted children, who is saved from self-destruction by advisers who sometimes decline to follow orders, and saved from high crimes in part by incompetence and weakness. [Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.] Steve Bannon, Wolff’s most voluble source, came across as the smartest character in “Fire and Fury.” In the Mueller report a similar role is played by the former White House counsel Donald McGahn, who spoke at great length with investigators and ended up portrayed as the most effective of those save-him-from-himself advisers, using masterful inaction to frustrate Trump’s desire to sack the special counsel. And just as Trump railed against Bannon after Wolff’s book came out, he is now railing against McGahn, though in both cases it was his own decision (to allow Wolff White House access, to waive executive privilege and to allow aides to cooperate with Mueller) that made the revelations possible. More broadly, just as Wolff’s unusual access ultimately produced a more dramatic version of a story that had already been told in piecemeal (and perhaps less fancifully) by White House reporters at the major newspapers, in the Mueller report we get a lot of confirmation of stories about White House dysfunction and dangerous presidential impulses that were published in, for instance, The New York Times. But at the same time, the Mueller report also reaches roughly the same conclusion about the Russia-collusion story that “Fire and Fury” offered. Wolff wrote that while there might have been “side deals and freelance operations” by campaign hangers-on, “the idea of formal collusion and artful conspiracy … seemed unlikely to everybody in the White House … Bannon’s comment that the Trump campaign was not organized enough to collude with its own state organizations became everybody’s favorite talking point — not least because it was true.” The disorganization point is key, because it is clear enough from events like the Trump Tower meeting that people around Trump were, shall we say, unencumbered by qualms about collusion. But the report makes the idea of an active, directed conspiracy — of the sort popularized by the Steele dossier, various faulty news reports and deep-state “experts” and the Resistance industry — seem as implausible as Wolff’s White House sources insisted. Just to read the Mueller report’s paragraphs on the change to the G.O.P. convention platform on Ukraine, long a minor locus of Putin-Trump quid pro quo conspiracy theorizing, is sufficient to recognize how much freelancing and chaos dominated the Trump campaign, and how little direction was offered from above. Meanwhile, many of the larger loci of conspiracy, the alleged Michael Cohen Prague trip, the alleged Paul Manafort visit to Julian Assange, the bank server supposedly communicating between Trump Tower and Moscow, simply evanesce under the report’s scrutiny. What remains offers useful detail about the Trump administration in the same way that “Fire and Fury” offered useful detail: It tells us more about what we already knew to be the case. The Mueller report is further proof that Trump has been as dishonest and ridiculous in the White House as he was on the campaign trail, further proof that his administration is filled with leakers, liars and people trying to protect their country from their boss and their boss from himself, further proof that our president postures as a strongman, yet is unable to master his own White House, further proof that left to his own devices Trump would constantly blunder into impeachable offenses. But because it adds to a well-understood reality, the report will probably have the same modest political impact, the same limited media half-life as prior, less-extensive exposés, and we will be back to talking about whether Joe Biden can beat Bernie Sanders and whether Sanders can beat Trump. And that shift will be sensible. Thanks to Robert Mueller, we know that Trump is about as bad as he appeared to be while running for the presidency — but not secretly omnicompetent, not secretly treasonous. He won in 2016 despite the manifold vices chronicled by Mueller’s team. The challenge for his opposition is to make him lose in 2020 because of them. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTOpinion) and Instagram, join the Facebook political discussion group, Voting While Female. Ross Douthat has been an Opinion columnist for The Times since 2009. He is the author of several books, most recently, “To Change the Church: Pope Francis and the Future of Catholicism.”
You can follow him on Twitter:  @DouthatNYT  You can follow him on Twitter:  @DouthatNYT 

Supported by It mostly tells us more about what we already know to be true. By Ross Douthat Opinion Columnist Roughly four thousand, two hundred and twenty-seven Trump-era news cycles ago, there was a rather famous book called “Fire and Fury.” The author, Michael Wolff, used an interesting tactic to gain access to the Trump White House: He allowed his subjects, the president included, to believe that he was going to write a positive account of the Trump administration, and then used that access to produce an account of an administration in constant chaos, and a president who was understood by everyone around him to be unfit for the job. One way to approach the Mueller report, if your sense of civic duty requires you to approach it, is to see it as a more rigorous, capacious version of “Fire and Fury.” Mueller's exposé was backed by subpoena power rather than just sweet talk, but ultimately it delivers the same general portrait: Donald Trump as an amoral incompetent surrounded by grifters, misfits and his own overpromoted children, who is saved from self-destruction by advisers who sometimes decline to follow orders, and saved from high crimes in part by incompetence and weakness. [Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.] Steve Bannon, Wolff’s most voluble source, came across as the smartest character in “Fire and Fury.” In the Mueller report a similar role is played by the former White House counsel Donald McGahn, who spoke at great length with investigators and ended up portrayed as the most effective of those save-him-from-himself advisers, using masterful inaction to frustrate Trump’s desire to sack the special counsel. And just as Trump railed against Bannon after Wolff’s book came out, he is now railing against McGahn, though in both cases it was his own decision (to allow Wolff White House access, to waive executive privilege and to allow aides to cooperate with Mueller) that made the revelations possible. More broadly, just as Wolff’s unusual access ultimately produced a more dramatic version of a story that had already been told in piecemeal (and perhaps less fancifully) by White House reporters at the major newspapers, in the Mueller report we get a lot of confirmation of stories about White House dysfunction and dangerous presidential impulses that were published in, for instance, The New York Times. But at the same time, the Mueller report also reaches roughly the same conclusion about the Russia-collusion story that “Fire and Fury” offered. Wolff wrote that while there might have been “side deals and freelance operations” by campaign hangers-on, “the idea of formal collusion and artful conspiracy … seemed unlikely to everybody in the White House … Bannon’s comment that the Trump campaign was not organized enough to collude with its own state organizations became everybody’s favorite talking point — not least because it was true.” The disorganization point is key, because it is clear enough from events like the Trump Tower meeting that people around Trump were, shall we say, unencumbered by qualms about collusion. But the report makes the idea of an active, directed conspiracy — of the sort popularized by the Steele dossier, various faulty news reports and deep-state “experts” and the Resistance industry — seem as implausible as Wolff’s White House sources insisted. Just to read the Mueller report’s paragraphs on the change to the G.O.P. convention platform on Ukraine, long a minor locus of Putin-Trump quid pro quo conspiracy theorizing, is sufficient to recognize how much freelancing and chaos dominated the Trump campaign, and how little direction was offered from above. Meanwhile, many of the larger loci of conspiracy, the alleged Michael Cohen Prague trip, the alleged Paul Manafort visit to Julian Assange, the bank server supposedly communicating between Trump Tower and Moscow, simply evanesce under the report’s scrutiny. What remains offers useful detail about the Trump administration in the same way that “Fire and Fury” offered useful detail: It tells us more about what we already knew to be the case. The Mueller report is further proof that Trump has been as dishonest and ridiculous in the White House as he was on the campaign trail, further proof that his administration is filled with leakers, liars and people trying to protect their country from their boss and their boss from himself, further proof that our president postures as a strongman, yet is unable to master his own White House, further proof that left to his own devices Trump would constantly blunder into impeachable offenses. But because it adds to a well-understood reality, the report will probably have the same modest political impact, the same limited media half-life as prior, less-extensive exposés, and we will be back to talking about whether Joe Biden can beat Bernie Sanders and whether Sanders can beat Trump. And that shift will be sensible. Thanks to Robert Mueller, we know that Trump is about as bad as he appeared to be while running for the presidency — but not secretly omnicompetent, not secretly treasonous. He won in 2016 despite the manifold vices chronicled by Mueller’s team. The challenge for his opposition is to make him lose in 2020 because of them. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTOpinion) and Instagram, join the Facebook political discussion group, Voting While Female. Ross Douthat has been an Opinion columnist for The Times since 2009. He is the author of several books, most recently, “To Change the Church: Pope Francis and the Future of Catholicism.”
You can follow him on Twitter:  @DouthatNYT  You can follow him on Twitter:  @DouthatNYT Supported by The Justice Department released a redacted version of the special counsel’s report on Thursday. Times reporters uncovered the biggest findings and shared excerpts and analysis. After a sweeping, 22-month investigation, Robert S. Mueller III found there was insufficient evidence to establish that President Trump or his associates engaged in a criminal conspiracy with Russia to disrupt the 2016 election, despite numerous contacts between his campaign and Russians. Mr. Mueller’s report also detailed the president’s efforts to thwart the investigation, and the investigators debated whether the episodes amounted to criminal obstruction of justice.  Read more about the report’s findings or read the full 448-page report. POSTED AT 1:24 PM Vol II, Page 77: The President and White House aides initially advanced a pretextual reason to the press and the public for Comey’s termination … The initial reliance on a pretextual justification could support an inference that the President had concerns about providing the real reason for the firing, although the evidence does not resolve whether those concerns were personal, political, or both. One of the biggest questions of the past two years — something that fueled the news coverage, the federal investigation and congressional scrutiny — is why so many people around Mr. Trump lied, misled and changed their stories. People hoping that Mr. Mueller would resolve those questions will be disappointed. Time and again, Mr. Mueller seems as confused as anyone else about the motives.— Matt Apuzzo POSTED AT 1:05 PM Vol. II, Page 153: With regard to Cohen’s false statements to Congress, while there is evidence, described below, that the President knew Cohen provided false testimony to Congress about the Trump Tower Moscow project, the evidence available to us does not establish that the President directed or aided Cohen’s false testimony. Mr. Cohen lied to Congress about the Trump Organization’s business dealings with Russia, prompting accusations that Mr. Trump had instructed him to lie. Mr. Mueller’s report paints a far murkier view. Investigators found evidence that Mr. Trump’s legal team advised Mr. Cohen to keep his statements to Congress “short and tight, not elaborate, stay on message, and not contradict the President.” Mr. Mueller made no finding on what, if any, role Mr. Trump played in that effort.— Matt Apuzzo POSTED AT 1:02 PM Vol. II, Page 157: The incidents were often carried out through one-on-one meetings in which the President sought to use his official power outside of usual channels. These actions ranged from efforts to remove the Special Counsel and to reverse the effect of the Attorney General’s recusal; to the attempted use of official power to limit the scope of the investigation; to direct and indirect contacts with witnesses with the potential to influence their testimony. Viewing the acts collectively can help to illuminate their significance. Many of the incidents Mr. Mueller examined for possible obstruction of justice had been the subject of public news reports and dismissed by Mr. Trump and his allies over the last two years. But Mr. Mueller tries to weave them together into a pattern of behavior that has implications for understanding Mr. Trump’s actions and intent.— Nicholas Fandos POSTED AT 12:54 PM Vol. II, Page 27: Comey’s briefing included the Steele reporting’s unverified allegation that the Russians had compromising tapes of the President involving conduct when he was a private citizen during a 2013 trip to Moscow for the Miss Universe Pageant. During the 2016 presidential campaign, a similar claim may have reached candidate Trump. On October 30, 2016, Michael Cohen received a text from Russian businessman Giorgi Rtskhiladze that said, “Stopped flow of tapes from Russia but not sure if there’s anything else. Just so you know ....” 10/30/16 Text Message, Rtskhiladze to Cohen. Rtskhiladze said “tapes” referred to compromising tapes of Trump rumored to be held by persons associated with the Russian real estate conglomerate Crocus Group, which had helped host the 2013 Miss Universe contest in Russia... Rtskhiladze said he was told the tapes were fake, but he did not communicate that to Cohen. In a footnote of the report, a Russian businessman is quoted as stating via text message that he had “stopped flow” of possibly fake, compromising tapes of Mr. Trump’s conduct in Russia. This offers a new detail on the sensational question of whether, as claimed in the unverified dossier compiled by a former British intelligence agent, Mr. Trump was caught with prostitutes on video in his Moscow hotel in 2013. But the report notes that the Russian businessman who bragged during the campaign that he had “stopped” such tapes evidently later said he believed the tapes in question were “fake.”— Scott Shane POSTED AT 12:52 PM Vol. II, Page 177: Accordingly, based on the analysis above, we were not persuaded by the argument that the President has blanket constitutional immunity to engage in acts that would corruptly obstruct justice through the exercise of otherwise-valid Article II powers protecting the integrity of its own proceedings and the proceedings of Article III courts and grand juries. Mr. Mueller dissected and rejected the argument that it would be unconstitutional to apply obstruction of justice laws to the president’s use of his executive powers like firing a subordinate or supervising the Justice Department’s opening and closing of cases. This repudiated an argument laid out not only by Mr. Trump’s lawyers, but also by Attorney General William P. Barr in an unsolicited, 19-page memo he wrote for the administration before the president appointed him to lead the Justice Department. That means Mr. Mueller left open the possibility of charging Mr. Trump with obstruction after he is no longer president – a possibility that Mr. Barr has tried to take off the table.— Charlie Savage POSTED AT 12:46 PM Vol. II, Page 182: If we had confidence after a thorough investigation of the facts that the president clearly did not commit obstruction of justice, we would so state. Whether Mr. Trump engaged in obstruction of justice involves complicated legal and constitutional issues that do not apply to ordinary citizens, but the report explicitly says that the inquiry did not clear the president. Discussing whether the president could have obstructed justice while exercising his constitutional authority, such as by firing James B. Comey as the director of the F.B.I., the report notes that Congress is empowered to step in to stop the corrupt use of presidential power. Democrats in Congress will surely seize on that language as justification for their burgeoning inquiries.— Sharon LaFraniere POSTED AT 12:36 PM Vol. II, Page 139: In early May 2017, Cohen received requests from Congress to provide testimony and documents in connection with congressional investigations of Russian interference in the 2016 election. At that time, Cohen understood Congress’s interest in him to be focused on the allegations in the Steele reporting concerning a meeting Cohen allegedly had with Russian officials in Prague during the campaign. Cohen had never traveled to Prague and was not concerned about those allegations, which he believed were provably false. On May 18, 2017, Cohen met with the President to discuss the request from Congress, and the President instructed Cohen that he should cooperate because there was nothing there. This further undercuts explosive information in the dossier compiled by Christopher Steele, the former British spy.— Adam Goldman POSTED AT 12:27 PM Vol. I, Pages 53-54: [REDACTED] Manafort also [REDACTED] wanted to be kept apprised of any developments with WikiLeaks and separately told Gates to keep in touch [REDACTED] about future WikiLeaks releases. According to Gates, by the late summer of 2016, the Trump Campaign was planning a press strategy, a communications campaign, and messaging based on the possible release of Clinton emails by WikiLeaks. [REDACTED] while Trump and Gates were driving to LaGuardia Airport. [REDACTED], shortly after the call candidate Trump told Gates that more releases of damaging information would be coming. [REDACTED] Mr. Barr said this type of material must be kept secret because it was relevant to a continuing criminal matter. That is probably, at a minimum, the indictment of the former Trump adviser Roger Stone Jr., who is charged with lying about his participation in such efforts. But this raises a larger question: whether the hidden evidence shows that the Trump campaign conspired with WikiLeaks. At his news conference on Thursday morning, Mr. Barr said any campaign collusion with WikiLeaks could not amount to a criminal conspiracy because WikiLeaks’ publication of the emails was not a crime so long as it did not help Russia hacking them.—Charlie Savage POSTED AT 12:25 PM Vol. II, Page D-3: During the course of the investigation, the Office periodically identified evidence of potential criminal activity that was outside the scope of the Special Counsel’s jurisdiction established by the Acting Attorney General. After consultation with the Office of the Deputy Attorney General, the Office referred that evidence to appropriate law enforcement authorities, principally other components of the Department of Justice and the FBI. Twelve of those referrals remain secret. Two others have been made public, including prosecutions involving Mr. Trump’s former personal lawyer, Michael D. Cohen, and Gregory B. Craig, a White House counsel in the Obama administration.— Adam Goldman POSTED AT 12:20 PM Vol. II, Page 5-6: In early 2018, the press reported that the president had directed McGahn to have the special counsel removed in June 2017 and that McGahn had threatened to resign rather than carry out the order. The president reacted to the news stories by directing White House officials to tell McGahn to dispute the story and to create a record stating he had not been ordered to have the special counsel removed. McGahn told those officials that the media reports were accurate in stating that the president had directed McGahn to have the special counsel removed. The president then met with McGahn in the Oval Office and again pressured him to deny the reports. In the same meeting, the president also asked McGahn why he had told the special counsel about the president’s effort to remove the special counsel and why McGahn took notes of his conversation with the president. McGahn refused to back away from what he remembered happening and perceived the president to be testing his mettle. This is one of the most damning episodes listed in the report, despite having already been reported by The New York Times. It demonstrated an active effort by the president to paint a false narrative about his conduct, both in the news media and with the special counsel.— Maggie Haberman POSTED AT 12:08 PM Vol. II, Page 6: When Flynn’s counsel reiterated that Flynn could no longer share information pursuant to a joint defense agreement, the president’s personal counsel said he would make sure that the President knew that Flynn’s actions reflected ‘hostility’ towards the president. The report does not state what the president might do in response, if anything. But the episode is part of a pattern, laid out in the report, of the president or his lawyers trying to determine what former aides were telling the special counsel, praising those who refused to cooperate and warning those who did help the special counsel’s team.—Sharon LaFraniere POSTED AT 12:06 PM Vol. II, Page 13: Ultimately, while we believed that we had the authority and legal justification to issue a grand jury subpoena to obtain the President’s testimony, we chose not to do so. We made that decision in view of the substantial delay that such an investigative step would likely produce at a late stage in our investigation. We also assessed that based on the significant body of evidence we had already obtained of the President’s actions and his public and private statements describing or explaining those actions, we had sufficient evidence to understand relevant events and to make certain assessments without the President’s testimony. Without an interview, Mr. Mueller never had a chance to question the president about the central question of the obstruction investigation: what was his intention when he took a range of actions that could have impeded the investigation?—Michael S. Schmidt POSTED AT 12:05 PM Vol. II, Page 4: On May 17, 2017, the Acting Attorney General for the Russia investigation appointed a special counsel to conduct the investigation and related matters. The president reacted to news that a special counsel had been appointed by telling advisors that it was ‘the end of his presidency’ and demanding that Sessions resign. Sessions submitted his resignation, but the president ultimately did not accept it. The president told aides that the special counsel had conflicts of interest and suggested that the special counsel therefore could not serve. The president’s advisors told him the asserted conflicts were meritless and had already been considered by the department of justice. The president immediately recognized the threat of the investigation. When he learned of Mr. Mueller’s appointment, he slumped in his chair and said, “Oh my God. This is terrible. This is the end of my presidency. I’m fucked.” He also lashed out at the attorney general for what Mr. Trump viewed as a failure to protect him. This would ultimately become a key consideration for the special counsel in debating whether the president obstructed justice, or sought to. — Maggie Haberman POSTED AT 11:58 AM Vol. II, Page 3: Shortly after requesting Flynn’s resignation and speaking privately to Comey, the President sought to have Deputy National Security Advisor K.T. McFarland draft an internal letter stating that the President had not directed Flynn to discuss sanctions with Kislyak. McFarland declined because she did not know whether that was true, and a White House Counsel’s Office attorney thought that the request would look like a quid pro quo for an ambassadorship she had been offered. Even the president’s closest advisers were reluctant to protect Mr. Trump because they could not be sure he was telling the truth.— Adam Goldman POSTED AT 11:55 AM Vol. I, Page 2: Like collusion, “coordination” does not have a settled definition in federal criminal law. We understood coordination to require an agreement—tacit or express—between the Trump Campaign and the Russian government on election interference. That requires more than the two parties taking actions that were informed by or responsive to the other’s actions or interests. Mr. Trump likes to say there was “no collusion,” and Mr. Barr used that term again in his news conference on Thursday morning. But collusion is not a legal concept. In looking for evidence of a criminal conspiracy, Mr. Mueller said he was instead looking for whether there was evidence of “coordination” between the Trump campaign and Russia in its election interference activities. He decided that the evidence fell short of meeting that standard. — Charlie Savage POSTED AT 11:53 AM Vol. I, Page 10: The Office investigated several other events that have been publicly reported to involve potential Russia-related contacts. For example, the investigation established that interactions between Russian Ambassador Kislyak and Trump Campaign officials both at the candidate’s April 2016 foreign policy speech in Washington, D.C., and during the week of the Republican National Convention were brief, public, and non-substantive. And the investigation did not establish that one Campaign official’s efforts to dilute a portion of the Republican Party platform on providing assistance to Ukraine were undertaken at the behest of candidate Trump or Russia. Reporters circled for months around rumors of meetings between members of the Trump campaign, including Jeff Sessions, then a senator, and Sergey Kislyak, the Russian ambassador at the time, at the Mayflower Hotel in Washington and elsewhere. There were also lingering questions about why a portion of the Republican Party platform about Ukraine had changed during summer 2016. People involved in each had publicly denied any untoward behavior, and Mr. Mueller appears to have confirmed that the meetings were “non-substantive.” His assessment of the platform change is more nuanced, but ultimately did not “establish” the platform change had been directed by Mr. Trump or Russia.—Nicholas Fandos POSTED AT 11:52 AM Vol. II, Page 7: Several features of the conduct we investigated distinguish it from typical obstruction-of-justice cases. First, the investigation concerned the President, and some of his actions, such as firing the FBI director, involved facially lawful acts within his Article II authority, which raises constitutional issues discussed below. At the same time, the President’s position as the head of the Executive Branch provided him with unique and powerful means of influencing official proceedings, subordinate officers, and potential witnesses—all of which is relevant to a potential obstruction-of-justice analysis. Mr. Mueller is saying that Mr. Trump’s powers as president were tied in with the actions he took that could have constituted obstruction, like ousting James B. Comey as F.B.I. director. This made building a case more difficult because Mr. Trump had the authority as president to take many of the actions that were scrutinized.— Michael S. Schmidt POSTED AT 11:51 AM Vol. II, Page 5: On several occasions, the president directed aides not to publicly disclose the emails setting up the June 9 [2016] meeting, suggesting that the emails would not leak and that the number of lawyers with access to them should be limited. Before the emails became public, the president edited a press statement for Trump Jr. by deleting a line that acknowledged that the meeting was with ‘an individual who [Trump Jr.] was told might have information helpful to the campaign’ and instead said only the meeting was about adoptions of Russian children. When the press asked questions about the president’s involvement in Trump Jr.’s statement, the president’s personal lawyer repeatedly denied the president had played any role. This confirms a New York Times report in July 2017 that disclosed that the president had helped draft the misleading statement made by his son Donald Trump Jr. and pushed for a version that did not reveal the true nature of the meeting. That The Times learned of the meeting at the time shook the president and was a key factor in what was a tumultuous summer for the White House.— Maggie Haberman POSTED AT 11:48 AM Vol. I, Pages 6-7: Both men believed the plan would require candidate Trump’s assent to succeed (were he to be elected president.) They also discussed the status of the Trump campaign and Manafort’s strategy for winning Democratic votes in Midwestern states. This suggests that Russia was trying to influence the Trump campaign to support a plan that would have allowed Russia to control part of eastern Ukraine, which would have been a huge victory for the Kremlin. Mr. Manafort had shared internal campaign polling data with the Russian associate before their Aug. 2, 2016, meeting — and for some period afterward, the report said.— Sharon LaFraniere POSTED AT 11:44 AM Vol. II, Page 5: In early summer 2017, the president called Sessions at home and again asked him to reverse his recusal from the Russia investigation. The president instructed Donald F. McGahn II, the White House counsel, in 2017 to tell Attorney General Jeff Sessions not to recuse himself. The president wanted an attorney general who would shield the president, and his efforts to put Mr. Sessions back in charge of the Russia investigation showed he actively interfered in Mr. Sessions’s recusal as a possible act of obstruction.— Adam Goldman POSTED AT 11:40 AM Vol. I, Page 9: While the investigation identified numerous links between individuals with ties to the Russian government and individuals associated with the Trump Campaign, the evidence was not sufficient to support criminal charges. Among other things, the evidence was not sufficient to charge any Campaign official as an unregistered agent of the Russian government or other Russian principal. And our evidence about the June 9, 2016 meeting and WikiLeak’s release of hacked materials was not sufficient to charge a criminal campaign-finance violation. Mr. Barr repeatedly said that the president’s campaign did not collude with Russia. Mr. Mueller’s report offers a more nuanced definition. He writes that while there was ample evidence of contacts between the Trump campaign and Russia as it carried out its social media influence and hacking campaigns, the evidence was not strong enough to support bringing criminal charges.—Nicholas Fandos POSTED AT 11:38 AM Vol I. Page 89: Papadopoulos suggested to a representative of a foreign government that the Trump Campaign had received indications from the Russian government that it could assist the Trump campaign through the anonymous release of information that would be damaging to Hillary Clinton. It has long been known that Mr. Papadopoulos, a young campaign aide, was told that the Russian government had “dirt” on Mrs. Clinton. This goes much farther, and helps explain why the F.B.I. investigated members of the Trump campaign in 2016. Mr. Papadopoulos appeared to suggest an explicit offer by the Russian government to work with the Trump campaign to sabotage Mrs. Clinton. — Matt Apuzzo POSTED AT 11:29 AM Vol. II, Page 4: On June 17, 2017 the president called McGahn at home and directed him to call the acting attorney general and say that the special counsel had conflicts of interest and must be removed. McGahn did not carry out the direction, however, deciding that he would resign rather than trigger what he regarded as a potential Saturday Night Massacre. We knew that Mr. Trump had ordered his White House counsel, Donald F. McGahn II, in June 2017 to have the deputy attorney general, Rod J. Rosenstein, fire Mr. Mueller, and that Mr. McGahn had refused to do so. We did not know that the president called him at home to pressure him. The “Saturday Night Massacre” refers to the Watergate episode in which the Nixon administration’s attorney general and deputy attorney general both resigned rather than carry out President Nixon’s order to fire the prosecutor investigating that scandal, leading to a severe political backlash. — Charlie Savage POSTED AT 11:23 AM Vol. I, Page 2: An agreement “requires more than the two parties taking actions that were informed by or responsive to other’s actions or interests.” It was not enough for investigators simply to show the Trump campaign knew what the Russians were up to, and responded. Trump associates had to specifically agree with the Russians to violate the law. — Sharon LaFraniere POSTED AT 11:19 AM Vol. II, Page 75: Substantial evidence indicates that the catalyst for the president’s decision to fire Comey was Comey’s unwillingness to publicly state that the president was not personally under investigation, despite the president’s repeated requests that Comey make such an announcement. Mr. Mueller effectively finds that the White House’s initial explanation for the firing was untrue. White House officials said that Mr. Comey was dismissed over his handling of the Hillary Clinton email investigation. The administration’s ever-changing justification for that firing led to speculation that Mr. Trump had fired him to sabotage the Russia investigation. — Matt Apuzzo

Supported by The Justice Department released a redacted version of the special counsel’s report on Thursday. Times reporters uncovered the biggest findings and shared excerpts and analysis. After a sweeping, 22-month investigation, Robert S. Mueller III found there was insufficient evidence to establish that President Trump or his associates engaged in a criminal conspiracy with Russia to disrupt the 2016 election, despite numerous contacts between his campaign and Russians. Mr. Mueller’s report also detailed the president’s efforts to thwart the investigation, and the investigators debated whether the episodes amounted to criminal obstruction of justice.  Read more about the report’s findings or read the full 448-page report. POSTED AT 1:24 PM Vol II, Page 77: The President and White House aides initially advanced a pretextual reason to the press and the public for Comey’s termination … The initial reliance on a pretextual justification could support an inference that the President had concerns about providing the real reason for the firing, although the evidence does not resolve whether those concerns were personal, political, or both. One of the biggest questions of the past two years — something that fueled the news coverage, the federal investigation and congressional scrutiny — is why so many people around Mr. Trump lied, misled and changed their stories. People hoping that Mr. Mueller would resolve those questions will be disappointed. Time and again, Mr. Mueller seems as confused as anyone else about the motives.— Matt Apuzzo POSTED AT 1:05 PM Vol. II, Page 153: With regard to Cohen’s false statements to Congress, while there is evidence, described below, that the President knew Cohen provided false testimony to Congress about the Trump Tower Moscow project, the evidence available to us does not establish that the President directed or aided Cohen’s false testimony. Mr. Cohen lied to Congress about the Trump Organization’s business dealings with Russia, prompting accusations that Mr. Trump had instructed him to lie. Mr. Mueller’s report paints a far murkier view. Investigators found evidence that Mr. Trump’s legal team advised Mr. Cohen to keep his statements to Congress “short and tight, not elaborate, stay on message, and not contradict the President.” Mr. Mueller made no finding on what, if any, role Mr. Trump played in that effort.— Matt Apuzzo POSTED AT 1:02 PM Vol. II, Page 157: The incidents were often carried out through one-on-one meetings in which the President sought to use his official power outside of usual channels. These actions ranged from efforts to remove the Special Counsel and to reverse the effect of the Attorney General’s recusal; to the attempted use of official power to limit the scope of the investigation; to direct and indirect contacts with witnesses with the potential to influence their testimony. Viewing the acts collectively can help to illuminate their significance. Many of the incidents Mr. Mueller examined for possible obstruction of justice had been the subject of public news reports and dismissed by Mr. Trump and his allies over the last two years. But Mr. Mueller tries to weave them together into a pattern of behavior that has implications for understanding Mr. Trump’s actions and intent.— Nicholas Fandos POSTED AT 12:54 PM Vol. II, Page 27: Comey’s briefing included the Steele reporting’s unverified allegation that the Russians had compromising tapes of the President involving conduct when he was a private citizen during a 2013 trip to Moscow for the Miss Universe Pageant. During the 2016 presidential campaign, a similar claim may have reached candidate Trump. On October 30, 2016, Michael Cohen received a text from Russian businessman Giorgi Rtskhiladze that said, “Stopped flow of tapes from Russia but not sure if there’s anything else. Just so you know ....” 10/30/16 Text Message, Rtskhiladze to Cohen. Rtskhiladze said “tapes” referred to compromising tapes of Trump rumored to be held by persons associated with the Russian real estate conglomerate Crocus Group, which had helped host the 2013 Miss Universe contest in Russia... Rtskhiladze said he was told the tapes were fake, but he did not communicate that to Cohen. In a footnote of the report, a Russian businessman is quoted as stating via text message that he had “stopped flow” of possibly fake, compromising tapes of Mr. Trump’s conduct in Russia. This offers a new detail on the sensational question of whether, as claimed in the unverified dossier compiled by a former British intelligence agent, Mr. Trump was caught with prostitutes on video in his Moscow hotel in 2013. But the report notes that the Russian businessman who bragged during the campaign that he had “stopped” such tapes evidently later said he believed the tapes in question were “fake.”— Scott Shane POSTED AT 12:52 PM Vol. II, Page 177: Accordingly, based on the analysis above, we were not persuaded by the argument that the President has blanket constitutional immunity to engage in acts that would corruptly obstruct justice through the exercise of otherwise-valid Article II powers protecting the integrity of its own proceedings and the proceedings of Article III courts and grand juries. Mr. Mueller dissected and rejected the argument that it would be unconstitutional to apply obstruction of justice laws to the president’s use of his executive powers like firing a subordinate or supervising the Justice Department’s opening and closing of cases. This repudiated an argument laid out not only by Mr. Trump’s lawyers, but also by Attorney General William P. Barr in an unsolicited, 19-page memo he wrote for the administration before the president appointed him to lead the Justice Department. That means Mr. Mueller left open the possibility of charging Mr. Trump with obstruction after he is no longer president – a possibility that Mr. Barr has tried to take off the table.— Charlie Savage POSTED AT 12:46 PM Vol. II, Page 182: If we had confidence after a thorough investigation of the facts that the president clearly did not commit obstruction of justice, we would so state. Whether Mr. Trump engaged in obstruction of justice involves complicated legal and constitutional issues that do not apply to ordinary citizens, but the report explicitly says that the inquiry did not clear the president. Discussing whether the president could have obstructed justice while exercising his constitutional authority, such as by firing James B. Comey as the director of the F.B.I., the report notes that Congress is empowered to step in to stop the corrupt use of presidential power. Democrats in Congress will surely seize on that language as justification for their burgeoning inquiries.— Sharon LaFraniere POSTED AT 12:36 PM Vol. II, Page 139: In early May 2017, Cohen received requests from Congress to provide testimony and documents in connection with congressional investigations of Russian interference in the 2016 election. At that time, Cohen understood Congress’s interest in him to be focused on the allegations in the Steele reporting concerning a meeting Cohen allegedly had with Russian officials in Prague during the campaign. Cohen had never traveled to Prague and was not concerned about those allegations, which he believed were provably false. On May 18, 2017, Cohen met with the President to discuss the request from Congress, and the President instructed Cohen that he should cooperate because there was nothing there. This further undercuts explosive information in the dossier compiled by Christopher Steele, the former British spy.— Adam Goldman POSTED AT 12:27 PM Vol. I, Pages 53-54: [REDACTED] Manafort also [REDACTED] wanted to be kept apprised of any developments with WikiLeaks and separately told Gates to keep in touch [REDACTED] about future WikiLeaks releases. According to Gates, by the late summer of 2016, the Trump Campaign was planning a press strategy, a communications campaign, and messaging based on the possible release of Clinton emails by WikiLeaks. [REDACTED] while Trump and Gates were driving to LaGuardia Airport. [REDACTED], shortly after the call candidate Trump told Gates that more releases of damaging information would be coming. [REDACTED] Mr. Barr said this type of material must be kept secret because it was relevant to a continuing criminal matter. That is probably, at a minimum, the indictment of the former Trump adviser Roger Stone Jr., who is charged with lying about his participation in such efforts. But this raises a larger question: whether the hidden evidence shows that the Trump campaign conspired with WikiLeaks. At his news conference on Thursday morning, Mr. Barr said any campaign collusion with WikiLeaks could not amount to a criminal conspiracy because WikiLeaks’ publication of the emails was not a crime so long as it did not help Russia hacking them.—Charlie Savage POSTED AT 12:25 PM Vol. II, Page D-3: During the course of the investigation, the Office periodically identified evidence of potential criminal activity that was outside the scope of the Special Counsel’s jurisdiction established by the Acting Attorney General. After consultation with the Office of the Deputy Attorney General, the Office referred that evidence to appropriate law enforcement authorities, principally other components of the Department of Justice and the FBI. Twelve of those referrals remain secret. Two others have been made public, including prosecutions involving Mr. Trump’s former personal lawyer, Michael D. Cohen, and Gregory B. Craig, a White House counsel in the Obama administration.— Adam Goldman POSTED AT 12:20 PM Vol. II, Page 5-6: In early 2018, the press reported that the president had directed McGahn to have the special counsel removed in June 2017 and that McGahn had threatened to resign rather than carry out the order. The president reacted to the news stories by directing White House officials to tell McGahn to dispute the story and to create a record stating he had not been ordered to have the special counsel removed. McGahn told those officials that the media reports were accurate in stating that the president had directed McGahn to have the special counsel removed. The president then met with McGahn in the Oval Office and again pressured him to deny the reports. In the same meeting, the president also asked McGahn why he had told the special counsel about the president’s effort to remove the special counsel and why McGahn took notes of his conversation with the president. McGahn refused to back away from what he remembered happening and perceived the president to be testing his mettle. This is one of the most damning episodes listed in the report, despite having already been reported by The New York Times. It demonstrated an active effort by the president to paint a false narrative about his conduct, both in the news media and with the special counsel.— Maggie Haberman POSTED AT 12:08 PM Vol. II, Page 6: When Flynn’s counsel reiterated that Flynn could no longer share information pursuant to a joint defense agreement, the president’s personal counsel said he would make sure that the President knew that Flynn’s actions reflected ‘hostility’ towards the president. The report does not state what the president might do in response, if anything. But the episode is part of a pattern, laid out in the report, of the president or his lawyers trying to determine what former aides were telling the special counsel, praising those who refused to cooperate and warning those who did help the special counsel’s team.—Sharon LaFraniere POSTED AT 12:06 PM Vol. II, Page 13: Ultimately, while we believed that we had the authority and legal justification to issue a grand jury subpoena to obtain the President’s testimony, we chose not to do so. We made that decision in view of the substantial delay that such an investigative step would likely produce at a late stage in our investigation. We also assessed that based on the significant body of evidence we had already obtained of the President’s actions and his public and private statements describing or explaining those actions, we had sufficient evidence to understand relevant events and to make certain assessments without the President’s testimony. Without an interview, Mr. Mueller never had a chance to question the president about the central question of the obstruction investigation: what was his intention when he took a range of actions that could have impeded the investigation?—Michael S. Schmidt POSTED AT 12:05 PM Vol. II, Page 4: On May 17, 2017, the Acting Attorney General for the Russia investigation appointed a special counsel to conduct the investigation and related matters. The president reacted to news that a special counsel had been appointed by telling advisors that it was ‘the end of his presidency’ and demanding that Sessions resign. Sessions submitted his resignation, but the president ultimately did not accept it. The president told aides that the special counsel had conflicts of interest and suggested that the special counsel therefore could not serve. The president’s advisors told him the asserted conflicts were meritless and had already been considered by the department of justice. The president immediately recognized the threat of the investigation. When he learned of Mr. Mueller’s appointment, he slumped in his chair and said, “Oh my God. This is terrible. This is the end of my presidency. I’m fucked.” He also lashed out at the attorney general for what Mr. Trump viewed as a failure to protect him. This would ultimately become a key consideration for the special counsel in debating whether the president obstructed justice, or sought to. — Maggie Haberman POSTED AT 11:58 AM Vol. II, Page 3: Shortly after requesting Flynn’s resignation and speaking privately to Comey, the President sought to have Deputy National Security Advisor K.T. McFarland draft an internal letter stating that the President had not directed Flynn to discuss sanctions with Kislyak. McFarland declined because she did not know whether that was true, and a White House Counsel’s Office attorney thought that the request would look like a quid pro quo for an ambassadorship she had been offered. Even the president’s closest advisers were reluctant to protect Mr. Trump because they could not be sure he was telling the truth.— Adam Goldman POSTED AT 11:55 AM Vol. I, Page 2: Like collusion, “coordination” does not have a settled definition in federal criminal law. We understood coordination to require an agreement—tacit or express—between the Trump Campaign and the Russian government on election interference. That requires more than the two parties taking actions that were informed by or responsive to the other’s actions or interests. Mr. Trump likes to say there was “no collusion,” and Mr. Barr used that term again in his news conference on Thursday morning. But collusion is not a legal concept. In looking for evidence of a criminal conspiracy, Mr. Mueller said he was instead looking for whether there was evidence of “coordination” between the Trump campaign and Russia in its election interference activities. He decided that the evidence fell short of meeting that standard. — Charlie Savage POSTED AT 11:53 AM Vol. I, Page 10: The Office investigated several other events that have been publicly reported to involve potential Russia-related contacts. For example, the investigation established that interactions between Russian Ambassador Kislyak and Trump Campaign officials both at the candidate’s April 2016 foreign policy speech in Washington, D.C., and during the week of the Republican National Convention were brief, public, and non-substantive. And the investigation did not establish that one Campaign official’s efforts to dilute a portion of the Republican Party platform on providing assistance to Ukraine were undertaken at the behest of candidate Trump or Russia. Reporters circled for months around rumors of meetings between members of the Trump campaign, including Jeff Sessions, then a senator, and Sergey Kislyak, the Russian ambassador at the time, at the Mayflower Hotel in Washington and elsewhere. There were also lingering questions about why a portion of the Republican Party platform about Ukraine had changed during summer 2016. People involved in each had publicly denied any untoward behavior, and Mr. Mueller appears to have confirmed that the meetings were “non-substantive.” His assessment of the platform change is more nuanced, but ultimately did not “establish” the platform change had been directed by Mr. Trump or Russia.—Nicholas Fandos POSTED AT 11:52 AM Vol. II, Page 7: Several features of the conduct we investigated distinguish it from typical obstruction-of-justice cases. First, the investigation concerned the President, and some of his actions, such as firing the FBI director, involved facially lawful acts within his Article II authority, which raises constitutional issues discussed below. At the same time, the President’s position as the head of the Executive Branch provided him with unique and powerful means of influencing official proceedings, subordinate officers, and potential witnesses—all of which is relevant to a potential obstruction-of-justice analysis. Mr. Mueller is saying that Mr. Trump’s powers as president were tied in with the actions he took that could have constituted obstruction, like ousting James B. Comey as F.B.I. director. This made building a case more difficult because Mr. Trump had the authority as president to take many of the actions that were scrutinized.— Michael S. Schmidt POSTED AT 11:51 AM Vol. II, Page 5: On several occasions, the president directed aides not to publicly disclose the emails setting up the June 9 [2016] meeting, suggesting that the emails would not leak and that the number of lawyers with access to them should be limited. Before the emails became public, the president edited a press statement for Trump Jr. by deleting a line that acknowledged that the meeting was with ‘an individual who [Trump Jr.] was told might have information helpful to the campaign’ and instead said only the meeting was about adoptions of Russian children. When the press asked questions about the president’s involvement in Trump Jr.’s statement, the president’s personal lawyer repeatedly denied the president had played any role. This confirms a New York Times report in July 2017 that disclosed that the president had helped draft the misleading statement made by his son Donald Trump Jr. and pushed for a version that did not reveal the true nature of the meeting. That The Times learned of the meeting at the time shook the president and was a key factor in what was a tumultuous summer for the White House.— Maggie Haberman POSTED AT 11:48 AM Vol. I, Pages 6-7: Both men believed the plan would require candidate Trump’s assent to succeed (were he to be elected president.) They also discussed the status of the Trump campaign and Manafort’s strategy for winning Democratic votes in Midwestern states. This suggests that Russia was trying to influence the Trump campaign to support a plan that would have allowed Russia to control part of eastern Ukraine, which would have been a huge victory for the Kremlin. Mr. Manafort had shared internal campaign polling data with the Russian associate before their Aug. 2, 2016, meeting — and for some period afterward, the report said.— Sharon LaFraniere POSTED AT 11:44 AM Vol. II, Page 5: In early summer 2017, the president called Sessions at home and again asked him to reverse his recusal from the Russia investigation. The president instructed Donald F. McGahn II, the White House counsel, in 2017 to tell Attorney General Jeff Sessions not to recuse himself. The president wanted an attorney general who would shield the president, and his efforts to put Mr. Sessions back in charge of the Russia investigation showed he actively interfered in Mr. Sessions’s recusal as a possible act of obstruction.— Adam Goldman POSTED AT 11:40 AM Vol. I, Page 9: While the investigation identified numerous links between individuals with ties to the Russian government and individuals associated with the Trump Campaign, the evidence was not sufficient to support criminal charges. Among other things, the evidence was not sufficient to charge any Campaign official as an unregistered agent of the Russian government or other Russian principal. And our evidence about the June 9, 2016 meeting and WikiLeak’s release of hacked materials was not sufficient to charge a criminal campaign-finance violation. Mr. Barr repeatedly said that the president’s campaign did not collude with Russia. Mr. Mueller’s report offers a more nuanced definition. He writes that while there was ample evidence of contacts between the Trump campaign and Russia as it carried out its social media influence and hacking campaigns, the evidence was not strong enough to support bringing criminal charges.—Nicholas Fandos POSTED AT 11:38 AM Vol I. Page 89: Papadopoulos suggested to a representative of a foreign government that the Trump Campaign had received indications from the Russian government that it could assist the Trump campaign through the anonymous release of information that would be damaging to Hillary Clinton. It has long been known that Mr. Papadopoulos, a young campaign aide, was told that the Russian government had “dirt” on Mrs. Clinton. This goes much farther, and helps explain why the F.B.I. investigated members of the Trump campaign in 2016. Mr. Papadopoulos appeared to suggest an explicit offer by the Russian government to work with the Trump campaign to sabotage Mrs. Clinton. — Matt Apuzzo POSTED AT 11:29 AM Vol. II, Page 4: On June 17, 2017 the president called McGahn at home and directed him to call the acting attorney general and say that the special counsel had conflicts of interest and must be removed. McGahn did not carry out the direction, however, deciding that he would resign rather than trigger what he regarded as a potential Saturday Night Massacre. We knew that Mr. Trump had ordered his White House counsel, Donald F. McGahn II, in June 2017 to have the deputy attorney general, Rod J. Rosenstein, fire Mr. Mueller, and that Mr. McGahn had refused to do so. We did not know that the president called him at home to pressure him. The “Saturday Night Massacre” refers to the Watergate episode in which the Nixon administration’s attorney general and deputy attorney general both resigned rather than carry out President Nixon’s order to fire the prosecutor investigating that scandal, leading to a severe political backlash. — Charlie Savage POSTED AT 11:23 AM Vol. I, Page 2: An agreement “requires more than the two parties taking actions that were informed by or responsive to other’s actions or interests.” It was not enough for investigators simply to show the Trump campaign knew what the Russians were up to, and responded. Trump associates had to specifically agree with the Russians to violate the law. — Sharon LaFraniere POSTED AT 11:19 AM Vol. II, Page 75: Substantial evidence indicates that the catalyst for the president’s decision to fire Comey was Comey’s unwillingness to publicly state that the president was not personally under investigation, despite the president’s repeated requests that Comey make such an announcement. Mr. Mueller effectively finds that the White House’s initial explanation for the firing was untrue. White House officials said that Mr. Comey was dismissed over his handling of the Hillary Clinton email investigation. The administration’s ever-changing justification for that firing led to speculation that Mr. Trump had fired him to sabotage the Russia investigation. — Matt ApuzzoSupported by A scrupulous report saved an unscrupulous president. By Bret Stephens Opinion Columnist For the better part of two years, Donald Trump and his partisans did everything they could to denigrate and discredit Robert Mueller and his investigation. They’re not done yet. “Statements are made about me by certain people in the Crazy Mueller Report, in itself written by 18 Angry Democrat Trump Haters, which are fabricated & totally untrue,” the president tweeted Friday morning. He went on to denounce the “Report” — scare quotes in the original — for containing statements that “are total bullshit & only given to make the other person look good (or me to look bad).” So the Mueller report is now, in the official White House version, “total exoneration,” except when it’s “total bullshit.” Got that? In June 2017, The Wall Street Journal editorial board, long a skeptic of Mueller’s probe, offered the central argument for why an investigation was necessary. “Russian meddling in U.S. elections is a serious matter and Americans need to know what happened,” they wrote. “If Mr. Trump or key associates canoodled with the Russians to steal an election, then he must face the likely consequence of impeachment.” That’s exactly right. And it’s why an investigation by a partisan-controlled House or Senate committee would never have sufficed, either for the purposes of establishing the facts or affording the president the vindication he now claims. Would, say, the “Nunes Report” have convinced anyone who wasn’t already planning to vote for Trump that no collusion had taken place? Would a decision by the president to fire Mueller in 2017 — as he very nearly did — have allayed suspicions, much less put the matter behind us? Only Mueller, with his reputation for probity and credibility among Democrats, could have prevented the collusion narrative from achieving the status of unshakable faith among millions of Americans, akin to the false “Bush lied, people died” narrative that still dogs the 43rd president. That required the no-stone-left-unturned approach manifest in the long investigation and 448-page report. Anything else would have been dismissed as a whitewash. So why aren’t conservatives grateful? From the beginning of the investigation, conservatives have been invested in a counter-narrative that is as flawed as the collusion narrative itself. This has various elements, from Trump’s repeated attempts to cast doubt on Russian interference, to the belief that the investigation had its genesis in Christopher Steele’s salacious dossier, to the equally spurious idea that there can be no obstruction of justice without an underlying crime — a point that ought to be obvious to anyone who supported impeaching Bill Clinton for lying under oath about a non-criminal act. Most absurd: The claim, repeated Thursday by Attorney General William Barr, that the White House fully cooperated with the investigation. For more on that, read the part of the report where then-White House counsel Don McGahn opted to quit instead of participating in the firing of Mueller. “He called his lawyer, drove to the White House, packed up his office, prepared to submit a resignation letter with his chief of staff, told [Reince] Priebus that the President had asked him to ‘do crazy shit,’ and informed Priebus and [Steve] Bannon that he was leaving.” Here’s what conservatives have largely failed to acknowledge: Trump’s absolution by Mueller didn’t come about because his intentions were innocent, but because his aims were thwarted or his methods were incompetent. If his own staff hadn’t blocked him from firing Mueller, he would have done so. If Don Jr. had been delivered a crate full of stolen Clinton documents at that Trump Tower meeting with a shady Russian lawyer, he would have taken it. If this newspaper hadn’t exposed Paul Manafort for taking illicit cash from Ukraine’s president, he might well have wound up as a senior U.S. official vulnerable to Russian blackmail. If the Senate hadn’t blocked Trump from easing sanctions on Russia, or public opinion hadn’t revolted over his performance at Helsinki, he would have cozied up to Vladimir Putin. Trump is the guy who keeps getting saved from walking into oncoming traffic, only to complain that someone yanked his collar. This makes Mueller the latest in a long list of figures whose scrupulousness saved Trump from the consequences of his unscrupulousness. For this, the special counsel will get no thanks from the president, much less an apology from all the two-bit talking heads who spent the past 23 months questioning his motives and impugning his integrity. The good news in all this is that the rule of law and reason still function in the Age of Trump — despite Trump. Responsible officials checked a dangerous president. Political pressure allowed Mueller to finish his report and ensured its release. Americans got a comprehensive presentation and analysis of the facts, which may have exonerated the president legally but which clearly indict him morally. Ultimately the matter will be settled at the polls in November 2020. The system, as they say, worked. Conservatives who claim to believe in that system should be grateful they didn’t get their wish when they sought to tear it down. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Bret L. Stephens has been an Opinion columnist with The Times since April 2017. He won a Pulitzer Prize for commentary at The Wall Street Journal in 2013 and was previously editor in chief of The Jerusalem Post.  @BretStephensNYT • Facebook 

Supported by A scrupulous report saved an unscrupulous president. By Bret Stephens Opinion Columnist For the better part of two years, Donald Trump and his partisans did everything they could to denigrate and discredit Robert Mueller and his investigation. They’re not done yet. “Statements are made about me by certain people in the Crazy Mueller Report, in itself written by 18 Angry Democrat Trump Haters, which are fabricated & totally untrue,” the president tweeted Friday morning. He went on to denounce the “Report” — scare quotes in the original — for containing statements that “are total bullshit & only given to make the other person look good (or me to look bad).” So the Mueller report is now, in the official White House version, “total exoneration,” except when it’s “total bullshit.” Got that? In June 2017, The Wall Street Journal editorial board, long a skeptic of Mueller’s probe, offered the central argument for why an investigation was necessary. “Russian meddling in U.S. elections is a serious matter and Americans need to know what happened,” they wrote. “If Mr. Trump or key associates canoodled with the Russians to steal an election, then he must face the likely consequence of impeachment.” That’s exactly right. And it’s why an investigation by a partisan-controlled House or Senate committee would never have sufficed, either for the purposes of establishing the facts or affording the president the vindication he now claims. Would, say, the “Nunes Report” have convinced anyone who wasn’t already planning to vote for Trump that no collusion had taken place? Would a decision by the president to fire Mueller in 2017 — as he very nearly did — have allayed suspicions, much less put the matter behind us? Only Mueller, with his reputation for probity and credibility among Democrats, could have prevented the collusion narrative from achieving the status of unshakable faith among millions of Americans, akin to the false “Bush lied, people died” narrative that still dogs the 43rd president. That required the no-stone-left-unturned approach manifest in the long investigation and 448-page report. Anything else would have been dismissed as a whitewash. So why aren’t conservatives grateful? From the beginning of the investigation, conservatives have been invested in a counter-narrative that is as flawed as the collusion narrative itself. This has various elements, from Trump’s repeated attempts to cast doubt on Russian interference, to the belief that the investigation had its genesis in Christopher Steele’s salacious dossier, to the equally spurious idea that there can be no obstruction of justice without an underlying crime — a point that ought to be obvious to anyone who supported impeaching Bill Clinton for lying under oath about a non-criminal act. Most absurd: The claim, repeated Thursday by Attorney General William Barr, that the White House fully cooperated with the investigation. For more on that, read the part of the report where then-White House counsel Don McGahn opted to quit instead of participating in the firing of Mueller. “He called his lawyer, drove to the White House, packed up his office, prepared to submit a resignation letter with his chief of staff, told [Reince] Priebus that the President had asked him to ‘do crazy shit,’ and informed Priebus and [Steve] Bannon that he was leaving.” Here’s what conservatives have largely failed to acknowledge: Trump’s absolution by Mueller didn’t come about because his intentions were innocent, but because his aims were thwarted or his methods were incompetent. If his own staff hadn’t blocked him from firing Mueller, he would have done so. If Don Jr. had been delivered a crate full of stolen Clinton documents at that Trump Tower meeting with a shady Russian lawyer, he would have taken it. If this newspaper hadn’t exposed Paul Manafort for taking illicit cash from Ukraine’s president, he might well have wound up as a senior U.S. official vulnerable to Russian blackmail. If the Senate hadn’t blocked Trump from easing sanctions on Russia, or public opinion hadn’t revolted over his performance at Helsinki, he would have cozied up to Vladimir Putin. Trump is the guy who keeps getting saved from walking into oncoming traffic, only to complain that someone yanked his collar. This makes Mueller the latest in a long list of figures whose scrupulousness saved Trump from the consequences of his unscrupulousness. For this, the special counsel will get no thanks from the president, much less an apology from all the two-bit talking heads who spent the past 23 months questioning his motives and impugning his integrity. The good news in all this is that the rule of law and reason still function in the Age of Trump — despite Trump. Responsible officials checked a dangerous president. Political pressure allowed Mueller to finish his report and ensured its release. Americans got a comprehensive presentation and analysis of the facts, which may have exonerated the president legally but which clearly indict him morally. Ultimately the matter will be settled at the polls in November 2020. The system, as they say, worked. Conservatives who claim to believe in that system should be grateful they didn’t get their wish when they sought to tear it down. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Bret L. Stephens has been an Opinion columnist with The Times since April 2017. He won a Pulitzer Prize for commentary at The Wall Street Journal in 2013 and was previously editor in chief of The Jerusalem Post.  @BretStephensNYT • Facebook You don't have permission to access /slideshow/2019/03/22/us/mueller.html
on this server.

You don't have permission to access /slideshow/2019/03/22/us/mueller.html
on this server.Supported by It lays out everything Congress needs to investigate the president for obstruction of justice. By Noah Bookbinder Mr. Bookbinder is the executive director of Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington. The final report by the special counsel Robert Mueller is devastating for the president. Far from the “total and complete exoneration” that President Trump prematurely claimed when Attorney General William Barr released his four-page summary of Mr. Mueller’s work, the special counsel’s report, over the course of 400-plus pages, lays out a compelling case — even absent a prosecutive conclusion — of obstruction of justice by the president. The report makes clear that the president’s obstruction of the F.B.I. and special counsel investigations crossed constitutional boundaries that could have merited criminal prosecution, if not for the Justice Department’s policy against indicting sitting presidents. Mr. Mueller’s report notes that his office explicitly considered absolving the president of obstruction of justice, but emphatically chose not to. Instead, Mr. Mueller laid out 181 pages detailing the substantial evidence that Mr. Trump obstructed justice. His team also concluded that even if legal constraints prevented them from seeking to indict a sitting president for obstruction of justice, “Congress has authority to prohibit a president’s corrupt use of his authority in order to protect the integrity of the administration of justice.”  Far from ending the matter, the Mueller report is an unmistakable act of deference to Congress’s primary jurisdiction over accountability for the president. The House Judiciary Committee must now pick up where Mr. Mueller left off and begin holding proceedings to determine whether Mr. Trump abused the powers of his office. The report details egregious evidence of obstruction, emphasizing the pattern of conduct that the president took after James Comey, then the F.B.I. director, confirmed the bureau’s investigation into possible links between the Trump campaign and Russia.  Much of the most alarming conduct is well known: The president pressured officials, including Mr. Comey, to clear him publicly; he fired Mr. Comey because of his unwillingness to publicly state that the president was not under investigation, possibly to protect himself from an investigation into his campaign; he engaged in efforts to curtail the special counsel investigation, including by having his former campaign manager Corey Lewandowski deliver a demand to Attorney General Jeff Sessions that he, too, publicly clear Mr. Trump and curtail the scope of the Russia investigation; he directed aides to withhold emails and drafted a misleading public statement for his son Donald Trump Jr. about the June 2016 meeting with several Russians at Trump Tower; he ordered the White House counsel, Don McGahn, to deny that he tried to fire the special counsel; and through his lawyers he appears to have floated the possibility of pardons for Paul Manafort, Rick Gates and Michael Cohen, three Trump associates who were charged by the special counsel. Mr. Mueller also corroborates Mr. Comey’s accounts of two interactions with Mr. Trump, including the infamous Oval Office meeting where Mr. Trump asked him to “let Flynn go.” He emphasizes that the “way in which the president communicated the request to Comey” is critical in understanding Mr. Trump’s potentially corrupt intent. As the report emphasizes, “It is important to view the president’s pattern of conduct as a whole” — including the ways in which the president “used his unique ability” to influence others by attacking the investigation or potential witnesses via mass communications. Crucially, the report explicitly rejects many of the most prominent defenses of the president that have been articulated by the president’s lawyers and Attorney General Barr.  First, the special counsel rejects the notion that the Constitution forecloses scrutiny of a president’s use of his own constitutional powers to impede investigations. Instead, it says, “The conclusion that Congress may apply the obstruction laws to the president’s corrupt exercise of the powers of office accords with our constitutional system of checks and balances and the principle that no person is above the law.”  Second, obstruction of justice cases do not require that the most prominent underlying crime being investigated — in this case conspiracy between the Trump campaign and Russia — be proven. To the contrary, the report states that “obstruction of justice can be motivated by a desire to protect noncriminal personal interests, to protect against investigations where underlying criminal conduct falls into a gray area, or to avoid personal embarrassment.” As the report repeatedly details, the motivation behind Mr. Trump’s obstructive conduct seems most likely to have fallen into one of these categories.  Indeed, someone seeking to obstruct justice may be looking to avoid detection of conduct he knows to be wrong, whether or not prosecutors ultimately conclude there was a criminal violation — which may explain the revelation that the president reacted to Mr. Mueller’s appointment with an expletive and the statement “This is the end of my presidency.” And while the report also details some exculpatory considerations, including the fact that the president, in his campaign, did not engage in an explicit or implicit conspiracy with the Russian government, the document paints a picture of a president who repeatedly tried to impede an investigation that he knew would be damaging to him, his family and his associates. Although Mr. Mueller operated under different rules from Leon Jaworski, who investigated President Richard Nixon, and Kenneth Starr, who investigated President Bill Clinton, he ultimately reached the same judgment as they did: that Congress, a body composed of elected representatives, is better placed than a prosecutor to determine whether to initiate proceedings that could result in an official’s removal from office. Congress is also well equipped to make determinations that the special counsel decided were beyond his purview. Because Congress has the power only to remove, not indict, a president, it does not need to worry, as the special counsel appeared to in the context of a potential criminal prosecution, that its actions will hamper the ability of a president to continue serving as a chief executive. If Congress votes to impeach and convict, it is ending, not hampering, a presidency.  Congress, a coequal branch of government, is also well suited to consider whether exercise of a president’s constitutional powers — including firing or directing subordinates for the purpose of impeding an investigation — amounts to obstruction of justice under the Constitution. The fact that Mr. Mueller explicitly did not resolve whether the president engaged in criminal conduct only reinforces the need for Congress to consider whether Mr. Trump violated his constitutional obligations to the American people. Perhaps most crucially, congressional hearings play a pivotal role in articulating the enduring values of our republic. The reason for Congress to hold hearings is not to reach a preordained result, but rather to answer in a public setting the question of whether the president’s conduct is acceptable. While such inquiries have been and should continue to be a rare occurrence, Congress and the American people have every right to insist that the individual who swears an oath to “preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States” has not abused his powers to protect himself or his associates from the reach of justice. The fact that much of the evidence of Mr. Trump’s obstruction occurred in plain view of the American people diminishes neither the seriousness of that conduct nor the need for further inquiry. As the Mueller report states, “No principle of law excludes public acts from the scope of obstruction statutes,” and the same is true for violations of the president’s obligations to take care that the laws be faithfully executed.  Rather than being exculpatory, the brazen, public nature of the president’s apparent obstruction is one of the reasons it presents such a grave threat to our democratic values. The greatest risk at this moment in our history is not that Congress will pursue an investigation that the president and his allies will do their best to malign as partisan. It is that we will send a clear message to future would-be authoritarians that our institutions cannot withstand a naked assault on the proposition that no person is above the law. Our nation’s founders saw fit to empower Congress with an extraordinary remedy to address extraordinary executive misconduct. Failing to take up the mantle of accountability at a moment where circumstances so clearly demand it would set an abhorrent precedent for our democracy. Mr. Mueller did his job. It is time for members of Congress to do theirs. Noah Bookbinder is the executive director of Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported by It lays out everything Congress needs to investigate the president for obstruction of justice. By Noah Bookbinder Mr. Bookbinder is the executive director of Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington. The final report by the special counsel Robert Mueller is devastating for the president. Far from the “total and complete exoneration” that President Trump prematurely claimed when Attorney General William Barr released his four-page summary of Mr. Mueller’s work, the special counsel’s report, over the course of 400-plus pages, lays out a compelling case — even absent a prosecutive conclusion — of obstruction of justice by the president. The report makes clear that the president’s obstruction of the F.B.I. and special counsel investigations crossed constitutional boundaries that could have merited criminal prosecution, if not for the Justice Department’s policy against indicting sitting presidents. Mr. Mueller’s report notes that his office explicitly considered absolving the president of obstruction of justice, but emphatically chose not to. Instead, Mr. Mueller laid out 181 pages detailing the substantial evidence that Mr. Trump obstructed justice. His team also concluded that even if legal constraints prevented them from seeking to indict a sitting president for obstruction of justice, “Congress has authority to prohibit a president’s corrupt use of his authority in order to protect the integrity of the administration of justice.”  Far from ending the matter, the Mueller report is an unmistakable act of deference to Congress’s primary jurisdiction over accountability for the president. The House Judiciary Committee must now pick up where Mr. Mueller left off and begin holding proceedings to determine whether Mr. Trump abused the powers of his office. The report details egregious evidence of obstruction, emphasizing the pattern of conduct that the president took after James Comey, then the F.B.I. director, confirmed the bureau’s investigation into possible links between the Trump campaign and Russia.  Much of the most alarming conduct is well known: The president pressured officials, including Mr. Comey, to clear him publicly; he fired Mr. Comey because of his unwillingness to publicly state that the president was not under investigation, possibly to protect himself from an investigation into his campaign; he engaged in efforts to curtail the special counsel investigation, including by having his former campaign manager Corey Lewandowski deliver a demand to Attorney General Jeff Sessions that he, too, publicly clear Mr. Trump and curtail the scope of the Russia investigation; he directed aides to withhold emails and drafted a misleading public statement for his son Donald Trump Jr. about the June 2016 meeting with several Russians at Trump Tower; he ordered the White House counsel, Don McGahn, to deny that he tried to fire the special counsel; and through his lawyers he appears to have floated the possibility of pardons for Paul Manafort, Rick Gates and Michael Cohen, three Trump associates who were charged by the special counsel. Mr. Mueller also corroborates Mr. Comey’s accounts of two interactions with Mr. Trump, including the infamous Oval Office meeting where Mr. Trump asked him to “let Flynn go.” He emphasizes that the “way in which the president communicated the request to Comey” is critical in understanding Mr. Trump’s potentially corrupt intent. As the report emphasizes, “It is important to view the president’s pattern of conduct as a whole” — including the ways in which the president “used his unique ability” to influence others by attacking the investigation or potential witnesses via mass communications. Crucially, the report explicitly rejects many of the most prominent defenses of the president that have been articulated by the president’s lawyers and Attorney General Barr.  First, the special counsel rejects the notion that the Constitution forecloses scrutiny of a president’s use of his own constitutional powers to impede investigations. Instead, it says, “The conclusion that Congress may apply the obstruction laws to the president’s corrupt exercise of the powers of office accords with our constitutional system of checks and balances and the principle that no person is above the law.”  Second, obstruction of justice cases do not require that the most prominent underlying crime being investigated — in this case conspiracy between the Trump campaign and Russia — be proven. To the contrary, the report states that “obstruction of justice can be motivated by a desire to protect noncriminal personal interests, to protect against investigations where underlying criminal conduct falls into a gray area, or to avoid personal embarrassment.” As the report repeatedly details, the motivation behind Mr. Trump’s obstructive conduct seems most likely to have fallen into one of these categories.  Indeed, someone seeking to obstruct justice may be looking to avoid detection of conduct he knows to be wrong, whether or not prosecutors ultimately conclude there was a criminal violation — which may explain the revelation that the president reacted to Mr. Mueller’s appointment with an expletive and the statement “This is the end of my presidency.” And while the report also details some exculpatory considerations, including the fact that the president, in his campaign, did not engage in an explicit or implicit conspiracy with the Russian government, the document paints a picture of a president who repeatedly tried to impede an investigation that he knew would be damaging to him, his family and his associates. Although Mr. Mueller operated under different rules from Leon Jaworski, who investigated President Richard Nixon, and Kenneth Starr, who investigated President Bill Clinton, he ultimately reached the same judgment as they did: that Congress, a body composed of elected representatives, is better placed than a prosecutor to determine whether to initiate proceedings that could result in an official’s removal from office. Congress is also well equipped to make determinations that the special counsel decided were beyond his purview. Because Congress has the power only to remove, not indict, a president, it does not need to worry, as the special counsel appeared to in the context of a potential criminal prosecution, that its actions will hamper the ability of a president to continue serving as a chief executive. If Congress votes to impeach and convict, it is ending, not hampering, a presidency.  Congress, a coequal branch of government, is also well suited to consider whether exercise of a president’s constitutional powers — including firing or directing subordinates for the purpose of impeding an investigation — amounts to obstruction of justice under the Constitution. The fact that Mr. Mueller explicitly did not resolve whether the president engaged in criminal conduct only reinforces the need for Congress to consider whether Mr. Trump violated his constitutional obligations to the American people. Perhaps most crucially, congressional hearings play a pivotal role in articulating the enduring values of our republic. The reason for Congress to hold hearings is not to reach a preordained result, but rather to answer in a public setting the question of whether the president’s conduct is acceptable. While such inquiries have been and should continue to be a rare occurrence, Congress and the American people have every right to insist that the individual who swears an oath to “preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States” has not abused his powers to protect himself or his associates from the reach of justice. The fact that much of the evidence of Mr. Trump’s obstruction occurred in plain view of the American people diminishes neither the seriousness of that conduct nor the need for further inquiry. As the Mueller report states, “No principle of law excludes public acts from the scope of obstruction statutes,” and the same is true for violations of the president’s obligations to take care that the laws be faithfully executed.  Rather than being exculpatory, the brazen, public nature of the president’s apparent obstruction is one of the reasons it presents such a grave threat to our democratic values. The greatest risk at this moment in our history is not that Congress will pursue an investigation that the president and his allies will do their best to malign as partisan. It is that we will send a clear message to future would-be authoritarians that our institutions cannot withstand a naked assault on the proposition that no person is above the law. Our nation’s founders saw fit to empower Congress with an extraordinary remedy to address extraordinary executive misconduct. Failing to take up the mantle of accountability at a moment where circumstances so clearly demand it would set an abhorrent precedent for our democracy. Mr. Mueller did his job. It is time for members of Congress to do theirs. Noah Bookbinder is the executive director of Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Supported by The special counsel’s report reveals a pattern of deceit and dysfunction. What comes next is up to Congress. By The Editorial Board The editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section. So much for “complete and total exoneration.” To the contrary, it turns out that Robert Mueller and his team of prosecutors and investigators found “substantial evidence” that President Trump broke federal law on numerous occasions by attempting to shut down or interfere with the nearly-two-year Russia investigation.  In addition to pointing to possible criminality, the report revealed a White House riddled with dysfunction and distrust, one in which Mr. Trump and his aides lie with contempt for one another and the public. Some of the president’s efforts to interfere with the investigation failed, the report concluded, only because “the persons who surrounded the president declined to carry out orders or accede to his requests.”  Put another way, Mr. Trump may survive, thanks to advisers who chose to refuse or simply ignore his demands to do what the former White House counsel Donald McGahn at one point referred to as “crazy shit.”  Mr. Trump — referred to repeatedly by aides as “the boss” — is shown as so attentive to covering his tracks that at one point he scolds Mr. McGahn for taking notes during a meeting. “I never had a lawyer who took notes,” Mr. Trump is quoted as saying. Mr. McGahn responded that he was a “real lawyer.” With the public release of a redacted version of the special counsel’s report on Thursday, Americans also at last got a clear answer for a central question raised by the terse — and now clearly misleading — summary offered four weeks ago by Attorney General William Barr: Why did Mr. Mueller decide not to make a finding about whether President Trump obstructed justice? “We determined not to apply an approach that could potentially result in a judgment that the president committed crimes,” the report explains, because “fairness concerns counseled against potentially reaching that judgment when no charges can be brought.” In other words, Mr. Mueller felt his hands were tied. Longstanding Justice Department policy prohibits the indictment of a sitting president, and it isn’t fair to make accusations without giving the president a legal forum in which to respond. A bit further on, the 448-page report says, “If we had confidence after a thorough investigation of the facts that the president clearly did not commit obstruction of justice, we would so state.”  So what now? Although Mr. Mueller was unable to bring criminal charges against the president himself, his report lays a foundation for investigation by Congress, which has the authority and the responsibility to check the executive branch and hold the president accountable. “The conclusion that Congress may apply the obstruction laws to the president's corrupt exercise of the powers of office accords with our constitutional system of checks and balances and the principle that no person is above the law,” the report states.  It is up to Congress to decide whether the behavior described in this report meets an acceptable standard for the country’s chief executive. In order to adequately conduct such an investigation, Congress must have access to a fully uncensored version of the report and all its underlying materials. Congressional leaders are right to subpoena the full report, as the House Judiciary Committee chairman, Jerrold Nadler, said he would do on Thursday. The public also has a right to hear Mr. Mueller testify before Congress at the earliest opportunity.  Descriptions in the public version of the report of the ways in which the president used, and abused, his powers challenge the dignity of the presidency and the free and fair function of the justice system. The special counsel investigated 11 incidents in which the president may have obstructed justice, the same offense facing Richard Nixon during Watergate and Bill Clinton during his impeachment. The report notes that the president engaged in “public attacks on the investigation, nonpublic efforts to control it, and efforts in both public and private to encourage witnesses not to cooperate with the investigation.” That the president’s norm-shattering behavior has become so flagrant and familiar doesn’t make it right. Little wonder that Mr. Trump, when notified that a special counsel had been appointed to scrutinize his behavior, reportedly slumped in his chair and said: “Oh my God. This is terrible. This is the end of my presidency. I’m fucked.”  In addition to indicting, convicting or securing guilty pleas from 34 people, the special counsel’s office made 14 referrals for further investigation of potential criminal activity outside the purview of the investigation’s mandate. Twelve of those referrals remain secret. The report is more definitive when it comes to the extensive interference by Russian spies and hackers in the 2016 election, a campaign of disruption it calls “sweeping and systematic.” Mr. Mueller’s investigation found that “the Russian government perceived it would benefit from a Trump presidency and worked to secure that outcome, and that the campaign expected it would benefit electorally from information stolen and released through Russian efforts.” Mr. Mueller was not able in the end to establish definitive coordination between the Trump campaign and the Russians.  At the same time, large sections of the report, apparently regarding dealings between WikiLeaks and the Trump campaign, have been blacked out. Mr. Barr said Thursday that any such coordination between the website and the campaign wouldn’t be criminal. Congress and the American people deserve to know what happened nonetheless.  If the report — and the entire saga around the Russia investigation — has one through-line, it is the dishonesty at the heart of the Trump administration. The president told Mr. McGahn to lie to reporters about Mr. Trump’s attempt to fire the special prosecutor. The press secretary, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, made up from whole cloth the notion that “rank-and-file F.B.I. agents had lost confidence” in the ousted director, James Comey. Half a dozen people connected with the Mueller investigation have been formally charged with — or pleaded guilty to — lying to investigators.  Then on Thursday, just before the report was made public, the attorney general tarnished himself and undermined the integrity of his office by dissembling about what the report said. By contrast, the special prosecutor’s report illustrates again and again that, despite Mr. Trump’s constant cries of “fake news,” the responsible news media’s reporting on the investigation was overwhelmingly accurate. Mr. Mueller may have thought he couldn’t indict a president in the legal sense of the term, but he has delivered a devastating description of Mr. Trump’s attempts to abuse his powers and corrupt his aides. This report, even in its censored format, is an important step toward putting the truth of this presidency in the public record. But there’s still a long way to go before it can be said that justice has been done. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported by The special counsel’s report reveals a pattern of deceit and dysfunction. What comes next is up to Congress. By The Editorial Board The editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section. So much for “complete and total exoneration.” To the contrary, it turns out that Robert Mueller and his team of prosecutors and investigators found “substantial evidence” that President Trump broke federal law on numerous occasions by attempting to shut down or interfere with the nearly-two-year Russia investigation.  In addition to pointing to possible criminality, the report revealed a White House riddled with dysfunction and distrust, one in which Mr. Trump and his aides lie with contempt for one another and the public. Some of the president’s efforts to interfere with the investigation failed, the report concluded, only because “the persons who surrounded the president declined to carry out orders or accede to his requests.”  Put another way, Mr. Trump may survive, thanks to advisers who chose to refuse or simply ignore his demands to do what the former White House counsel Donald McGahn at one point referred to as “crazy shit.”  Mr. Trump — referred to repeatedly by aides as “the boss” — is shown as so attentive to covering his tracks that at one point he scolds Mr. McGahn for taking notes during a meeting. “I never had a lawyer who took notes,” Mr. Trump is quoted as saying. Mr. McGahn responded that he was a “real lawyer.” With the public release of a redacted version of the special counsel’s report on Thursday, Americans also at last got a clear answer for a central question raised by the terse — and now clearly misleading — summary offered four weeks ago by Attorney General William Barr: Why did Mr. Mueller decide not to make a finding about whether President Trump obstructed justice? “We determined not to apply an approach that could potentially result in a judgment that the president committed crimes,” the report explains, because “fairness concerns counseled against potentially reaching that judgment when no charges can be brought.” In other words, Mr. Mueller felt his hands were tied. Longstanding Justice Department policy prohibits the indictment of a sitting president, and it isn’t fair to make accusations without giving the president a legal forum in which to respond. A bit further on, the 448-page report says, “If we had confidence after a thorough investigation of the facts that the president clearly did not commit obstruction of justice, we would so state.”  So what now? Although Mr. Mueller was unable to bring criminal charges against the president himself, his report lays a foundation for investigation by Congress, which has the authority and the responsibility to check the executive branch and hold the president accountable. “The conclusion that Congress may apply the obstruction laws to the president's corrupt exercise of the powers of office accords with our constitutional system of checks and balances and the principle that no person is above the law,” the report states.  It is up to Congress to decide whether the behavior described in this report meets an acceptable standard for the country’s chief executive. In order to adequately conduct such an investigation, Congress must have access to a fully uncensored version of the report and all its underlying materials. Congressional leaders are right to subpoena the full report, as the House Judiciary Committee chairman, Jerrold Nadler, said he would do on Thursday. The public also has a right to hear Mr. Mueller testify before Congress at the earliest opportunity.  Descriptions in the public version of the report of the ways in which the president used, and abused, his powers challenge the dignity of the presidency and the free and fair function of the justice system. The special counsel investigated 11 incidents in which the president may have obstructed justice, the same offense facing Richard Nixon during Watergate and Bill Clinton during his impeachment. The report notes that the president engaged in “public attacks on the investigation, nonpublic efforts to control it, and efforts in both public and private to encourage witnesses not to cooperate with the investigation.” That the president’s norm-shattering behavior has become so flagrant and familiar doesn’t make it right. Little wonder that Mr. Trump, when notified that a special counsel had been appointed to scrutinize his behavior, reportedly slumped in his chair and said: “Oh my God. This is terrible. This is the end of my presidency. I’m fucked.”  In addition to indicting, convicting or securing guilty pleas from 34 people, the special counsel’s office made 14 referrals for further investigation of potential criminal activity outside the purview of the investigation’s mandate. Twelve of those referrals remain secret. The report is more definitive when it comes to the extensive interference by Russian spies and hackers in the 2016 election, a campaign of disruption it calls “sweeping and systematic.” Mr. Mueller’s investigation found that “the Russian government perceived it would benefit from a Trump presidency and worked to secure that outcome, and that the campaign expected it would benefit electorally from information stolen and released through Russian efforts.” Mr. Mueller was not able in the end to establish definitive coordination between the Trump campaign and the Russians.  At the same time, large sections of the report, apparently regarding dealings between WikiLeaks and the Trump campaign, have been blacked out. Mr. Barr said Thursday that any such coordination between the website and the campaign wouldn’t be criminal. Congress and the American people deserve to know what happened nonetheless.  If the report — and the entire saga around the Russia investigation — has one through-line, it is the dishonesty at the heart of the Trump administration. The president told Mr. McGahn to lie to reporters about Mr. Trump’s attempt to fire the special prosecutor. The press secretary, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, made up from whole cloth the notion that “rank-and-file F.B.I. agents had lost confidence” in the ousted director, James Comey. Half a dozen people connected with the Mueller investigation have been formally charged with — or pleaded guilty to — lying to investigators.  Then on Thursday, just before the report was made public, the attorney general tarnished himself and undermined the integrity of his office by dissembling about what the report said. By contrast, the special prosecutor’s report illustrates again and again that, despite Mr. Trump’s constant cries of “fake news,” the responsible news media’s reporting on the investigation was overwhelmingly accurate. Mr. Mueller may have thought he couldn’t indict a president in the legal sense of the term, but he has delivered a devastating description of Mr. Trump’s attempts to abuse his powers and corrupt his aides. This report, even in its censored format, is an important step toward putting the truth of this presidency in the public record. But there’s still a long way to go before it can be said that justice has been done. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Supported by Attorney General William P. Barr sent a letter to Congress last month citing brief fragments from the Mueller report. Now that the document is public, his selections are coming under scrutiny. By Charlie Savage When Attorney General William P. Barr sent Congress a four-page letter last month describing his take on the conclusions of Robert S. Mueller III’s special counsel investigation, he quoted several fragments of Mr. Mueller’s then-secret report. But none of the excerpts were in context or even complete sentences, raising the question of whether he was portraying their thrust and tone accurately or skewing them to make them sound better for President Trump. Now that the report is out, readers can see where Mr. Barr plucked those phrases from.  From William P. Barr “In making this determination, we noted that the special counsel recognized that ‘the evidence does not establish that the president was involved in an underlying crime related to Russian election interference,’ and that, while not determinative, the absence of such evidence bears upon the president’s intent with respect to obstruction.”  From Robert S. Mueller III Vol. II, Page 157: Obstruction of justice can be motivated by a desire to protect noncriminal personal interests, to protect against investigations where underlying criminal liability falls into a gray area, or to avoid personal embarrassment. The injury to the integrity of the justice system is the same regardless of whether a person committed an underlying wrong. In this investigation, the evidence does not establish that the president was involved in an underlying crime related to Russian election interference. But the evidence does point to a range of other possible personal motives animating the president’s conduct. These include concerns that continued investigation would call into question the legitimacy of his election and potential uncertainty about whether certain events — such as advance notice of WikiLeaks’ release of hacked information or the June 9, 2016, meeting between senior campaign officials and Russians could be seen as criminal activity by the president, his campaign or his family. Mr. Barr, in explaining why he was declaring Mr. Trump cleared of obstructing justice, cited this sentence fragment about how the evidence Mr. Mueller had gathered did not prove there had been any conspiracy with Russia for Mr. Trump to cover up. This use of Mr. Mueller’s words turned the special counsel’s meaning on its head: The brief excerpt came from a list of other possible reasons Mr. Trump might have had to corruptly impede the investigation, and which Mr. Barr did not mention. From William P. Barr “The special counsel’s investigation did not find that the Trump campaign or anyone associated with it conspired or coordinated with Russia in its efforts to influence the 2016 U.S. presidential election. As the report states: ‘[T]he investigation did not establish that members of the Trump campaign conspired or coordinated with the Russian government in its election interference activities.’” From Robert S. Mueller III Vol. I, Page 1: The investigation also identified numerous links between the Russian government and the Trump campaign. Although the investigation established that the Russian government perceived it would benefit from a Trump presidency and worked to secure that outcome, and that the campaign expected it would benefit electorally from information stolen and released through Russian efforts, the investigation did not establish that members of the Trump campaign conspired or coordinated with the Russian government in its election interference activities. Mr. Barr took a larger passage in which the Mueller report suggested that the Trump campaign and the Russian government were knowingly dancing together at a distance, and then excerpted a fragment to make it look like a cleaner exoneration. From William P. Barr “In assessing potential conspiracy charges, the special counsel also considered whether members of the Trump campaign ‘coordinated’ with Russian election interference activities. The special counsel defined ‘coordination’ as an ‘agreement — tacit or express — between the Trump campaign and the Russian government on election interference.’” From Robert S. Mueller III Vol. I, Page 2: We understood coordination to require an agreement — tacit or express — between the Trump campaign and the Russian government on election interference. That requires more than the two parties taking actions that were informed by or responsive to the other’s actions or interests. In the second sentence, which Mr. Barr omitted, Mr. Mueller again emphasized that there can be a type of complicit conduct that falls short of how the special counsel defined coordination. From William P. Barr “After making a ‘thorough factual investigation’ into these matters, the special counsel considered whether to evaluate the conduct under department standards governing prosecution and declination decisions but ultimately determined not to make a traditional prosecutorial judgment.” From Robert S. Mueller III Vol. II, Page 2: Second, while the O.L.C. opinion concludes that a sitting president may not be prosecuted, it recognizes that a criminal investigation during the president’s term is permissible. The O.L.C. opinion also recognizes that a president does not have immunity after he leaves office. And if individuals other than the president committed an obstruction offense, they may be prosecuted at this time. Given those considerations, the facts known to us, and the strong public interest in safeguarding the integrity of the criminal justice system, we conducted a thorough factual investigation in order to preserve the evidence when memories were fresh and documentary materials were available. In his letter to Congress, Mr. Barr did not explain that Mr. Mueller was trying to leave open the possibility that prosecutors in the future, after Mr. Trump leaves office, could look at the evidence he gathered and decide then whether to indict Mr. Trump. That rationale — which stemmed from the view of the Justice Department’s Office of Legal Counsel, or O.L.C., that sitting presidents cannot be indicted but former presidents lose such immunity — conflicted with Mr. Barr’s move to pronounce Mr. Trump cleared now.  From William P. Barr “The special counsel therefore did not draw a conclusion — one way or the other — as to whether the examined conduct constituted obstruction. Instead, for each of the relevant actions investigated, the report sets out evidence on both sides of the question and leaves unresolved what the special counsel views as ‘difficult issues’ of law and fact concerning whether the president’s actions and intent could be viewed as obstruction. The special counsel states that ‘while this report does not conclude that the president committed a crime, it also does not exonerate him.’”  Mr. Mueller used those two phrases twice, in slightly different formulations: From Robert S. Mueller III Vol. II, Page 2: Fourth, if we had confidence after a thorough investigation of the facts that the president clearly did not commit obstruction of justice, we would so state. Based on the facts and the applicable legal standards, however, we are unable to reach that judgment. The evidence we obtained about the president’s actions and intent presents difficult issues that prevent us from conclusively determining that no criminal conduct occurred. Accordingly, while this report does not conclude that the president committed a crime, it also does not exonerate him. Vol. II, Page 8: Because we determined not to make a traditional prosecutorial judgment, we did not draw ultimate conclusions about the president’s conduct. The evidence we obtained about the president’s actions and intent presents difficult issues that would need to be resolved if we were making a traditional prosecutorial judgment. At the same time, if we had confidence after a thorough investigation of the facts that the president clearly did not commit obstruction of justice, we would so state. Based on the facts and the applicable legal standards, we are unable to reach that judgment. Accordingly, while this report does not conclude that the president committed a crime, it also does not exonerate him.  In his letter, Mr. Barr did not explain why the special counsel had demurred from making any prosecutorial judgment on obstruction beyond a cryptic reference to what he said Mr. Mueller had described as “difficult issues” of law and fact. His suggestion was that these unspecified issues prevented Mr. Mueller from making a call “one way or the other.” In fact, Mr. Mueller made clear that the difficulties resided in accusing Mr. Trump of committing a crime; if the facts had exonerated him, he would have been willing to say so. Charlie Savage is a Washington-based national security and legal policy correspondent. A recipient of the Pulitzer Prize, he previously worked at The Boston Globe and The Miami Herald. His most recent book is “Power Wars: The Relentless Rise of Presidential Authority and Secrecy.”  @charlie_savage • Facebook 

Supported by Attorney General William P. Barr sent a letter to Congress last month citing brief fragments from the Mueller report. Now that the document is public, his selections are coming under scrutiny. By Charlie Savage When Attorney General William P. Barr sent Congress a four-page letter last month describing his take on the conclusions of Robert S. Mueller III’s special counsel investigation, he quoted several fragments of Mr. Mueller’s then-secret report. But none of the excerpts were in context or even complete sentences, raising the question of whether he was portraying their thrust and tone accurately or skewing them to make them sound better for President Trump. Now that the report is out, readers can see where Mr. Barr plucked those phrases from.  From William P. Barr “In making this determination, we noted that the special counsel recognized that ‘the evidence does not establish that the president was involved in an underlying crime related to Russian election interference,’ and that, while not determinative, the absence of such evidence bears upon the president’s intent with respect to obstruction.”  From Robert S. Mueller III Vol. II, Page 157: Obstruction of justice can be motivated by a desire to protect noncriminal personal interests, to protect against investigations where underlying criminal liability falls into a gray area, or to avoid personal embarrassment. The injury to the integrity of the justice system is the same regardless of whether a person committed an underlying wrong. In this investigation, the evidence does not establish that the president was involved in an underlying crime related to Russian election interference. But the evidence does point to a range of other possible personal motives animating the president’s conduct. These include concerns that continued investigation would call into question the legitimacy of his election and potential uncertainty about whether certain events — such as advance notice of WikiLeaks’ release of hacked information or the June 9, 2016, meeting between senior campaign officials and Russians could be seen as criminal activity by the president, his campaign or his family. Mr. Barr, in explaining why he was declaring Mr. Trump cleared of obstructing justice, cited this sentence fragment about how the evidence Mr. Mueller had gathered did not prove there had been any conspiracy with Russia for Mr. Trump to cover up. This use of Mr. Mueller’s words turned the special counsel’s meaning on its head: The brief excerpt came from a list of other possible reasons Mr. Trump might have had to corruptly impede the investigation, and which Mr. Barr did not mention. From William P. Barr “The special counsel’s investigation did not find that the Trump campaign or anyone associated with it conspired or coordinated with Russia in its efforts to influence the 2016 U.S. presidential election. As the report states: ‘[T]he investigation did not establish that members of the Trump campaign conspired or coordinated with the Russian government in its election interference activities.’” From Robert S. Mueller III Vol. I, Page 1: The investigation also identified numerous links between the Russian government and the Trump campaign. Although the investigation established that the Russian government perceived it would benefit from a Trump presidency and worked to secure that outcome, and that the campaign expected it would benefit electorally from information stolen and released through Russian efforts, the investigation did not establish that members of the Trump campaign conspired or coordinated with the Russian government in its election interference activities. Mr. Barr took a larger passage in which the Mueller report suggested that the Trump campaign and the Russian government were knowingly dancing together at a distance, and then excerpted a fragment to make it look like a cleaner exoneration. From William P. Barr “In assessing potential conspiracy charges, the special counsel also considered whether members of the Trump campaign ‘coordinated’ with Russian election interference activities. The special counsel defined ‘coordination’ as an ‘agreement — tacit or express — between the Trump campaign and the Russian government on election interference.’” From Robert S. Mueller III Vol. I, Page 2: We understood coordination to require an agreement — tacit or express — between the Trump campaign and the Russian government on election interference. That requires more than the two parties taking actions that were informed by or responsive to the other’s actions or interests. In the second sentence, which Mr. Barr omitted, Mr. Mueller again emphasized that there can be a type of complicit conduct that falls short of how the special counsel defined coordination. From William P. Barr “After making a ‘thorough factual investigation’ into these matters, the special counsel considered whether to evaluate the conduct under department standards governing prosecution and declination decisions but ultimately determined not to make a traditional prosecutorial judgment.” From Robert S. Mueller III Vol. II, Page 2: Second, while the O.L.C. opinion concludes that a sitting president may not be prosecuted, it recognizes that a criminal investigation during the president’s term is permissible. The O.L.C. opinion also recognizes that a president does not have immunity after he leaves office. And if individuals other than the president committed an obstruction offense, they may be prosecuted at this time. Given those considerations, the facts known to us, and the strong public interest in safeguarding the integrity of the criminal justice system, we conducted a thorough factual investigation in order to preserve the evidence when memories were fresh and documentary materials were available. In his letter to Congress, Mr. Barr did not explain that Mr. Mueller was trying to leave open the possibility that prosecutors in the future, after Mr. Trump leaves office, could look at the evidence he gathered and decide then whether to indict Mr. Trump. That rationale — which stemmed from the view of the Justice Department’s Office of Legal Counsel, or O.L.C., that sitting presidents cannot be indicted but former presidents lose such immunity — conflicted with Mr. Barr’s move to pronounce Mr. Trump cleared now.  From William P. Barr “The special counsel therefore did not draw a conclusion — one way or the other — as to whether the examined conduct constituted obstruction. Instead, for each of the relevant actions investigated, the report sets out evidence on both sides of the question and leaves unresolved what the special counsel views as ‘difficult issues’ of law and fact concerning whether the president’s actions and intent could be viewed as obstruction. The special counsel states that ‘while this report does not conclude that the president committed a crime, it also does not exonerate him.’”  Mr. Mueller used those two phrases twice, in slightly different formulations: From Robert S. Mueller III Vol. II, Page 2: Fourth, if we had confidence after a thorough investigation of the facts that the president clearly did not commit obstruction of justice, we would so state. Based on the facts and the applicable legal standards, however, we are unable to reach that judgment. The evidence we obtained about the president’s actions and intent presents difficult issues that prevent us from conclusively determining that no criminal conduct occurred. Accordingly, while this report does not conclude that the president committed a crime, it also does not exonerate him. Vol. II, Page 8: Because we determined not to make a traditional prosecutorial judgment, we did not draw ultimate conclusions about the president’s conduct. The evidence we obtained about the president’s actions and intent presents difficult issues that would need to be resolved if we were making a traditional prosecutorial judgment. At the same time, if we had confidence after a thorough investigation of the facts that the president clearly did not commit obstruction of justice, we would so state. Based on the facts and the applicable legal standards, we are unable to reach that judgment. Accordingly, while this report does not conclude that the president committed a crime, it also does not exonerate him.  In his letter, Mr. Barr did not explain why the special counsel had demurred from making any prosecutorial judgment on obstruction beyond a cryptic reference to what he said Mr. Mueller had described as “difficult issues” of law and fact. His suggestion was that these unspecified issues prevented Mr. Mueller from making a call “one way or the other.” In fact, Mr. Mueller made clear that the difficulties resided in accusing Mr. Trump of committing a crime; if the facts had exonerated him, he would have been willing to say so. Charlie Savage is a Washington-based national security and legal policy correspondent. A recipient of the Pulitzer Prize, he previously worked at The Boston Globe and The Miami Herald. His most recent book is “Power Wars: The Relentless Rise of Presidential Authority and Secrecy.”  @charlie_savage • Facebook transcript Hosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Rachel Quester, Theo Balcomb and Paige Cowett, and edited by Lisa Tobin We dig into the highly anticipated findings of the special counsel’s two-year investigation. Friday, April 19th, 2019 speaker It’s up. All right. It’s up. The report’s up. Sorry. [interposing voices]  [music]  michael barbaro From The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” speaker O.K. Mike? mike Yeah. speaker I want you to start on page 215 — “factual results of the obstruction investigation.” michael barbaro Today — speaker Sharon, here’s what I want you to excerpt. I want you to start on page four. Nick, I want you to start at the bottom of page eight. michael barbaro 448 pages, two years in the making. speaker That’s new. We didn’t know that. michael barbaro What we learned from the Mueller report. speaker 1 That quote is new. speaker 2 It’s a pretty good quote. michael barbaro It’s Friday, April 19. michael schmidt Michael, can you hear us? mark mazzetti Hey, Michael. michael barbaro Yeah. Hey, guys. michael schmidt Hey. mark mazzetti Hey. michael barbaro All right. Mike Schmidt, Mark Mazzetti, it’s 9:15 on Thursday night. You’ve both now spent about 10 hours reading the Mueller report. Tell me about this thing. michael schmidt It’s a breathtaking document. It’s over 400 pages of detailed insights and accounts of enormous issues we’ve been focused on over the past two years. It’s divided into, essentially, two halves — one for Russia, one for the president’s actions in office. michael barbaro In other words, collusion and obstruction. Those are the two buckets. mark mazzetti Right. The first half detailing the contact between Russians and Trump advisers isn’t enormously revealing, in the sense that we had already heard some weeks ago that there had not been a, quote, “criminal conspiracy” found by Mueller. At the same time, there’s an enormous amount of detail concluding that in the midst of this really historic effort by the Russians to sabotage the election — hacking and leaking of emails, social media manipulation, fake news — it says that the Trump campaign welcomed this. They saw a real benefit of what the Russians were doing, even if at the end of the day there wasn’t an active conspiracy. michael schmidt He’s essentially saying that they were interested, they sought out information about emails, they wanted to know more about how they could get their hands on these messages. They welcomed all this, but they never crossed the line into breaking the law. Just because they sought out the fruits of the Russian hack doesn’t mean that they were part of the crime. michael barbaro And just to be very clear, how is what you’re describing, collectively, not collusion? mark mazzetti Well, I think we need to be careful, because the attorney general said that there was no collusion. And the president said there was no collusion. But the Mueller report is more nuanced. And the Mueller report says, you know, this “collusion” word doesn’t really mean anything to us. There’s no legal standard of collusion. So what we’re going to look at is what is a crime, and that is conspiracy. And that’s what we have to judge all of this voluminous evidence against. And they said that a conspiracy is two parties acting together in concert to break the law. And what Mueller is very clear about is that there is, quote, “insufficient evidence” of a conspiracy. He is not saying there was nothing. He is not saying full exoneration. But he’s saying there is insufficient evidence to meet the standard that he had established of a criminal conspiracy breaking the law. michael barbaro And what would Mueller have needed to see for this to add up to conspiracy? michael schmidt That would have looked like a conversation between the Trump campaign and the Russians where the Trump campaign was saying, hey guys, can you go break into the D.N.C. and steal some emails so we can then get them out and embarrass the Democrats and help us politically during the campaign? That would have gotten you down the conspiracy path. And they did not find that. michael barbaro O.K. So let’s talk about obstruction. Mike, last time we talked, a couple weeks back, Mueller had sent his report to Barr. And Barr had sent a summary of that report to Congress in advance of this full report. And the most confusing thing about that summary was that Mueller had not made a call on whether the evidence added up to obstruction of justice. michael schmidt And today, we get to see what Mueller’s explanation is for why he didn’t make a determination on whether the president broke the law. And it’s not clear-cut. What it essentially is is that the president, under Justice Department policy, cannot be indicted. And because the president cannot be indicted, it’s unfair to accuse him while he’s in office of breaking the law, because there’s no way for him to go to court to defend himself. So, dear American public, Mueller essentially says, I am not going to make a determination on that issue. That could be made after the president leaves office. But for now, that would be unfair. So what I will do is I will lay out for you what I found, what the potential obstruction was, why it may be illegal. And after the president leaves office, the Justice Department could make a determination that he indeed broke the law and bring a case. And at the end of explaining why a determination was not made, Mueller says, if we had confidence after a thorough investigation of the facts that the president clearly did not commit obstruction of justice, we would so state. Based on the facts and the applicable legal standards, however, we are unable to reach that judgment. So Mueller is basically saying, if we felt comfortable that the president had done nothing wrong, we would tell you. And we are not telling you that. michael barbaro Well, Mike, you mentioned the incidents that he was not going to use as a basis for charging the president, because he felt he couldn’t charge the president. What were those that he laid out in the report? michael schmidt Well, there’s about a dozen. And they follow in chronological order how Trump misled the public about his relationship with Russia, misled the public about his knowledge that Russia was behind the hacks. And as the presidency goes on and Mueller is appointed in May of 2017, right after he takes office, the president starts to sort of lose his grip as he tries to maintain control of the investigation. He was intent on using his power as the head of the executive branch to protect himself and use the tools at his disposal — the people running the Justice Department, the F.B.I., the intelligence community — to help protect him from this investigation. michael barbaro And what are some examples of that — specifics? michael schmidt Well, a lot of them are ones that we know well. The firing of James Comey. His efforts to get his attorney general, Jeff Sessions, to un-recuse himself from the Russia investigation, essentially reassert his control over something that he has stepped aside from because he has a conflict of interest. And when the president can’t get that done, he basically tries to get rid of Sessions and install a loyalist atop the Justice Department. These are things that had been reported in the press. We get a fuller, richer picture of them. And we really see what the president was saying behind closed doors and the immense pressure he was putting on people to try and use the system to protect himself from the system. But then we learn about incidents that we knew little about, like how the president went completely outside of his administration in government to Corey Lewandowski, his first campaign manager. michael barbaro Mm-hmm. michael schmidt And he leaned on Corey in the summer of 2017 to try and pressure Sessions, his attorney general. So here’s the president of the United States using someone who doesn’t even work for him to get to Sessions and try and get Sessions out there publicly to help clear Trump’s name. It’s just a remarkable way of using presidential power. michael barbaro Which suggests that the president was meeting resistance within his own administration, and therefore reached out to somebody who didn’t even work for the government to try to get him to achieve this end. michael schmidt I don’t think many in the public will want to hold up the president’s aides as heroes, and a lot of them are probably not. But there is a picture here of folks that stopped the president time and time again and thwarted him from doing things that may have actually gotten him into trouble, that may have crossed that line, that may have made a stronger argument for Mueller about why the president did obstruct justice. One of the most detailed ones is on Trump’s efforts to get rid of Mueller and how his White House counsel would not do that. He would not call the Justice Department on the president’s behalf and say Mueller has to be removed for what the White House counsel, Don McGahn, thought were some bogus reasons Trump had cooked up about why he didn’t like Mueller. And in the document, as Mueller is recounting what happened in this incident, there are Nixonian echoes. It says, on June 17, 2017, the president called McGahn at home and directed him to call the acting attorney general and say that the special counsel had conflicts of interest and must be removed. McGahn did not carry out the direction, however, deciding that he would resign rather than trigger what he regarded as a potential “Saturday Night Massacre” — a reference to when Richard Nixon fired the special counsel who was investigating him. michael barbaro I recognize that this question is a little bit meta, but if getting rid of Mueller had meant that the report was never completed, wouldn’t that have finally been obstruction of justice? Because, literally, an investigation was obstructed. mark mazzetti There does seem to be a determination here about the success of the president’s efforts, or lack of success — that the fact that the Mueller investigation continued and finished means there is less of a case that the president obstructed justice. If there had been more of a Nixonian moment, where there was an 18-minute gap in tapes that were deliberately erased, that there was some tangible thing that had happened that had meant that prosecutors couldn’t get to the truth, there might possibly have been a different judgment and a different outcome. michael barbaro Right. I keep thinking of that 18-minute deletion when I think about Don McGahn. It’s as if nobody had ever said to Nixon what Don McGahn had said to President Trump — no, I’m not going to delete that tape. Sorry. But that’s what Don McGahn did to the president. That’s what happened with Trump over and over again. mark mazzetti Because everyone has seen “All the President’s Men,” and they know what happens. And, you know, you don’t want to be the guy who carries out the “Saturday Night Massacre.” michael barbaro So the president really has these people around him to thank, in a lot of ways. michael schmidt At the end of the day, there were these folks that were not going to go that extra inch and go over the line for him. And it looks like those measures probably saved him. mark mazzetti I mean, Mueller lays this point out explicitly. This is a quote from the report. “The president’s efforts to influence the investigation were mostly unsuccessful. But that is largely because the persons who surrounded the president declined to carry out orders or cede to his requests. Comey did not end the investigation of Flynn, which ultimately resulted in Flynn’s prosecution and conviction for lying to the F.B.I. McGahn did not tell the acting attorney general that the special counsel must be removed, but was instead prepared to resign over the president’s order. Lewandowski and Dearborn did not deliver the president’s message to Sessions that he should confine the Russian investigation to future election meddling only. And McGahn refused to recede from his recollections about events surrounding the president’s direction to have the special counsel removed, despite the president’s multiple demands to do so.” michael barbaro Hmm. And Mike, before seeing this report, our understanding of why Mueller may not have reached a conclusion on obstruction of justice was that obstruction has a lot to do with intent. Why did the president take the actions that he took? What did we learn from the report about how Mueller might have been thinking about that? michael schmidt We learn that the president was intent on ending the investigation into himself, but it’s less clear about what was truly motivating him. michael barbaro I guess I don’t quite understand that. If his intent is to end the investigation, how is that not obstruction of justice? mark mazzetti This is the heart of this dispute right now. michael schmidt Yeah. mark mazzetti It’s a clash of two theories. I mean, Mueller’s team clearly indicated that the actions come up to the line of obstruction of justice — that the intent to end the investigation to preserve his presidency does, in fact, approach something that is criminal obstruction of justice, even if they did not make that determination. The rub here is that it is at odds with the theory of Robert Mueller’s boss, Attorney General Barr. He got the job of attorney general, some say, based on his theory that the president can’t really obstruct justice. Barr says, today, in his press conference — archived recording (william barr) President Trump faced an unprecedented situation. As he entered into office and sought to perform his responsibilities as president, federal agents and prosecutors were scrutinizing his conduct before and after taking office. mark mazzetti At the heart of a obstruction of justice investigation is whether that person has corrupt intent. And his determination is that the president didn’t. And in a way, this big debate over the intent of the president — Barr kind of goes out of his way today to fill in the blanks, to sort of say, well, let’s look at the president’s intent. archived recording (william barr) At the same time, there was relentless speculation in the news media about the president’s personal culpability. Yet, as he said from the beginning, there was, in fact, no collusion. mark mazzetti The president felt that this was consuming his presidency. archived recording (william barr) There is substantial evidence to show that the president was frustrated and angered by his sincere belief that the investigation was undermining his presidency, propelled by his political opponents, and fueled by illegal leaks. Nonetheless, the White House fully cooperated with the special counsel’s investigation. mark mazzetti Yeah. He wanted this thing over. So in a way, what was one of the things that was so extraordinary about Barr’s press conference was that he explains the president’s reasoning in a way that the president hasn’t himself. michael barbaro So Barr would say that trying to end the investigation to protect the presidency is not corrupt motive. In fact, in his telling, it’s arguably even important, maybe even a little bit noble. It’s in the best interest of the American people. michael schmidt Perhaps patriotic. michael barbaro Hmm. mark mazzetti So there’s this totally compelling moment in the middle of the report that paints a scene of the president being told that a special counsel had just been appointed. And I’ll quote directly from the report. “The president slumped back in his chair and said, ‘Oh, my God. This is terrible. This is the end of my presidency. I’m fucked.’ The president became angry and lambasted the attorney general for his decision to recuse from the investigation, stating, ‘How could you let this happen, Jeff?’ The president said the position of attorney general was his most important appointment, and that Sessions had, quote, ‘let him down,’ contrasting him with Eric Holder and Robert Kennedy. Sessions recalled that the president said to him, ‘You were supposed to protect me,’ or words to that effect. The president returned to the consequences of the appointment and said, ‘Everyone tells me if you get one of these independent counsels, it ruins your presidency. It takes years and years, and I won’t be able to do anything. This is the worst thing that ever happened to me.’” The way this passage reads is the president’s anger about the appointment of a special counsel comes mostly from the recognition that it’s going to imperil his presidency. It means nothing will get done. It means that he’s going to spend the rest of his term fighting it. It’s not because he’s worried that Robert Mueller might find something that will one day land Donald Trump in jail. That’s one reading of this passage that would bolster the argument made by the attorney general that the president faced this extraordinary situation. michael schmidt I don’t think that makes any sense. Or at least I don’t understand it. I don’t understand how the attorney general can say there’s no issue of an underlying crime here when Donald Trump is sitting there acknowledging the potential threat from the depth and breadth of a special counsel’s investigation. He knew at that point, in May of 2017, that he had had his personal lawyer, Michael Cohen, make hush money payments to women. Donald Trump was smart enough to know that a special counsel — like in Bill Clinton or any other presidency — rummages around on one issue and ends up on another. And what happens? Mueller finds these weird transactions. He refers it to another U.S. attorney’s office. And the president is ultimately in a completely separate investigation, named as an unindicted co-conspirator. michael barbaro Hmm. michael schmidt How is there not an underlying crime that Donald Trump was afraid about? In July of 2017, myself and two colleagues go into the Oval Office to interview the president. He says, if Mueller looks at my finances, it’s crossing a red line. So what were Trump’s motivations for getting rid of Mueller? Was he really worried about Russia? Or was he worried that, hey, if this guy rummages around on Russia, he’s going to find something else? Indeed, he did. michael barbaro So Mike, you’re saying that Barr’s argument — that the president is just protecting the presidency — doesn’t really hold up. Because we know for a fact that the president understood, at this point, that when he says, I’m effed, that he has these payments made in coordination with Michael Cohen to these women as hush money, which have nothing to do with the Russia investigation, but which obviously could be incredibly damaging to him, and maybe even criminal. michael schmidt Look, no one has questioned the president about this in a law enforcement setting. I don’t know exactly what the president’s intentions were, but the idea that there was no underlying criminality in Donald Trump’s life in May of 2017, when Mueller got appointed, is bogus. Because there was. Further, in December of 2017, there is a report out there that Mueller has subpoenaed the president’s bank records. michael barbaro Mm-hmm. michael schmidt Before the president’s lawyers are able to get the message to him that the report is wrong, he starts telling White House aides that Mueller has to go. michael barbaro Hmm. michael schmidt I do think there’s a decent case to be made that there were underlying issues of criminality within his life. The Justice Department has said that itself. michael barbaro O.K. So regardless of the president’s intent, is it important whether or not he was successful in impeding this investigation, in thinking about the question of obstruction of justice? michael schmidt Well, I think for the folks at the Justice Department who had to make the call about whether the president broke the law, one of the factors that played into their declination decision was the fact that when you looked at the investigation, the efforts that the president took did not significantly damage the inquiry. michael barbaro Right. michael schmidt Despite the president’s best efforts, he was not very good at obstructing justice. michael barbaro Right. The existence of the Mueller report today suggests that the investigation did not get obstructed. michael schmidt Despite all of Donald Trump’s huffing and puffing and trying to get this person to do this and this person to do that, Bob Mueller moved ahead unimpeded for two years, finished his investigation, and the entire country got to see the fruits of it. Show us where the obstruction is, is what the president’s defenders would say. [music]  michael barbaro We’ll be right back. So finally, I want to talk about Bill Barr’s role in all this. Because the position of many Democrats today was that Barr — in reaching a decision on obstruction of justice where Mueller did not, in holding a press conference ahead of the report’s release seeming to defend the president, all taken together — has undermined any credibility that he had, and that Democrats and the country need to see for themselves what Mueller had found. How are you thinking about Barr in this moment, having now spent time with the Mueller report? mark mazzetti I mean, the one thing is clear is that this has been a lot of red meat for Democrats in Congress to keep investigating. And one of the things that they’re going to keep investigating is Barr’s role in this entire process. They are going to try to get him up to testify. They are going to try to get more underlying documents in the Mueller investigation. They now see Barr as a clear target for them. I think a lot of people, because of all these actions, have a much different picture of the attorney general than they did a month or two ago. michael barbaro And they’re going to try to understand the differences between what Bob Mueller thinks about all this — the supposedly nonpartisan figure — and what Bill Barr thinks about this — the presidential appointee whose allegiances are clearly closer to the president. michael schmidt There’s one answer to this. And that is that after this entire investigation in which Bob Mueller has said nothing publicly, including today, when there was a press conference held to talk about his report, we need to hear from Bob Mueller. We need for him to explain to us more how they came to this determination that they couldn’t say whether the president violated the law or not. Does Mueller think that Barr has misrepresented some of his findings? What was his relationship with the Justice Department? Did he believe that Congress should deal with this issue and that Barr shouldn’t have made a call on whether the president violated the law? We need to hear from Mueller. We have never heard his voice in the past two years. michael barbaro So inadvertently, in seeming to protect the president and not be representing Mueller, Bill Barr may be extending Democrats’ interest in this investigation and the trouble for the president. mark mazzetti Absolutely. If you look back at what Barr has done in the last month, this could have turned out differently for him — if he had put out the report immediately after the letter or as soon after the letter as he could have, if he had characterized the report differently in that four-page letter, and if he hadn’t had a press conference on the day of the release before anyone had seen the report that had this appearance of trying to spin it for the president and protect the president. That seems to have created more problems both for Barr and the president than if they had just released the report. michael barbaro Mark, thank you very much. Mike, thank you very much. mark mazzetti Thank you. michael schmidt Thanks for having us. [music]  michael barbaro “The Daily” is made by Theo Balcomb, Andy Mills, Lisa Tobin, Rachel Quester, Lynsea Garrison, Annie Brown, Clare Toeniskoetter, Paige Cowett, Michael Simon Johnson, Brad Fisher, Larissa Anderson, Wendy Dorr, Chris Wood, Jessica Cheung, Alexandra Leigh Young, Jonathan Wolfe, Lisa Chow, Eric Krupke and Marc Georges. Our theme music is by Jim Brunberg and Ben Landsverk of Wonderly. Special thanks to Sam Dolnick, Mikayla Bouchard, Stella Tan, Julia Simon and Samantha Henig. That’s it for “The Daily.” I’m Michael Barbaro. See you on Monday. Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device: Via Apple Podcasts | Via RadioPublic | Via Stitcher Two years and 448 pages later, a redacted version of the Mueller report has been made public. Here’s what we’ve learned. [For an exclusive look at how the biggest stories on “The Daily” podcast come together, subscribe to our newsletter. Read the latest edition here.] On today’s episode: Michael S. Schmidt, who covers national security and federal investigations for The New York Times. Mark Mazzetti, a Washington investigative correspondent for The Times. Background reading: The Mueller report laid out the scope of Russian election interference and President Trump’s frantic efforts to thwart the special counsel’s investigation. Read a rundown of what we know so far from the report.  Times reporters shared key annotated excerpts from the report. Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Follow Michael Barbaro on Twitter: @mikiebarb. And if you’re interested in advertising with “The Daily,” write to us at thedaily-ads@nytimes.com. Michael S. Schmidt and Mark Mazzetti contributed reporting. “The Mueller Report Is Released” was produced by Rachel Quester, Theo Balcomb and Paige Cowett, with help from Annie Brown, Eric Krupke, Luke Vander Ploeg and Clare Toeniskoetter, and edited by Lisa Tobin. “The Daily” is made by Theo Balcomb, Andy Mills, Lisa Tobin, Rachel Quester, Lynsea Garrison, Annie Brown, Clare Toeniskoetter, Paige Cowett, Michael Simon Johnson, Brad Fisher, Larissa Anderson, Wendy Dorr, Chris Wood, Jessica Cheung, Alexandra Leigh Young, Jonathan Wolfe, Lisa Chow, Eric Krupke, Marc Georges and Luke Vander Ploeg. Our theme music is by Jim Brunberg and Ben Landsverk of Wonderly. Special thanks to Sam Dolnick, Mikayla Bouchard, Stella Tan, Julia Simon and Samantha Henig.

transcript Hosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Rachel Quester, Theo Balcomb and Paige Cowett, and edited by Lisa Tobin We dig into the highly anticipated findings of the special counsel’s two-year investigation. Friday, April 19th, 2019 speaker It’s up. All right. It’s up. The report’s up. Sorry. [interposing voices]  [music]  michael barbaro From The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” speaker O.K. Mike? mike Yeah. speaker I want you to start on page 215 — “factual results of the obstruction investigation.” michael barbaro Today — speaker Sharon, here’s what I want you to excerpt. I want you to start on page four. Nick, I want you to start at the bottom of page eight. michael barbaro 448 pages, two years in the making. speaker That’s new. We didn’t know that. michael barbaro What we learned from the Mueller report. speaker 1 That quote is new. speaker 2 It’s a pretty good quote. michael barbaro It’s Friday, April 19. michael schmidt Michael, can you hear us? mark mazzetti Hey, Michael. michael barbaro Yeah. Hey, guys. michael schmidt Hey. mark mazzetti Hey. michael barbaro All right. Mike Schmidt, Mark Mazzetti, it’s 9:15 on Thursday night. You’ve both now spent about 10 hours reading the Mueller report. Tell me about this thing. michael schmidt It’s a breathtaking document. It’s over 400 pages of detailed insights and accounts of enormous issues we’ve been focused on over the past two years. It’s divided into, essentially, two halves — one for Russia, one for the president’s actions in office. michael barbaro In other words, collusion and obstruction. Those are the two buckets. mark mazzetti Right. The first half detailing the contact between Russians and Trump advisers isn’t enormously revealing, in the sense that we had already heard some weeks ago that there had not been a, quote, “criminal conspiracy” found by Mueller. At the same time, there’s an enormous amount of detail concluding that in the midst of this really historic effort by the Russians to sabotage the election — hacking and leaking of emails, social media manipulation, fake news — it says that the Trump campaign welcomed this. They saw a real benefit of what the Russians were doing, even if at the end of the day there wasn’t an active conspiracy. michael schmidt He’s essentially saying that they were interested, they sought out information about emails, they wanted to know more about how they could get their hands on these messages. They welcomed all this, but they never crossed the line into breaking the law. Just because they sought out the fruits of the Russian hack doesn’t mean that they were part of the crime. michael barbaro And just to be very clear, how is what you’re describing, collectively, not collusion? mark mazzetti Well, I think we need to be careful, because the attorney general said that there was no collusion. And the president said there was no collusion. But the Mueller report is more nuanced. And the Mueller report says, you know, this “collusion” word doesn’t really mean anything to us. There’s no legal standard of collusion. So what we’re going to look at is what is a crime, and that is conspiracy. And that’s what we have to judge all of this voluminous evidence against. And they said that a conspiracy is two parties acting together in concert to break the law. And what Mueller is very clear about is that there is, quote, “insufficient evidence” of a conspiracy. He is not saying there was nothing. He is not saying full exoneration. But he’s saying there is insufficient evidence to meet the standard that he had established of a criminal conspiracy breaking the law. michael barbaro And what would Mueller have needed to see for this to add up to conspiracy? michael schmidt That would have looked like a conversation between the Trump campaign and the Russians where the Trump campaign was saying, hey guys, can you go break into the D.N.C. and steal some emails so we can then get them out and embarrass the Democrats and help us politically during the campaign? That would have gotten you down the conspiracy path. And they did not find that. michael barbaro O.K. So let’s talk about obstruction. Mike, last time we talked, a couple weeks back, Mueller had sent his report to Barr. And Barr had sent a summary of that report to Congress in advance of this full report. And the most confusing thing about that summary was that Mueller had not made a call on whether the evidence added up to obstruction of justice. michael schmidt And today, we get to see what Mueller’s explanation is for why he didn’t make a determination on whether the president broke the law. And it’s not clear-cut. What it essentially is is that the president, under Justice Department policy, cannot be indicted. And because the president cannot be indicted, it’s unfair to accuse him while he’s in office of breaking the law, because there’s no way for him to go to court to defend himself. So, dear American public, Mueller essentially says, I am not going to make a determination on that issue. That could be made after the president leaves office. But for now, that would be unfair. So what I will do is I will lay out for you what I found, what the potential obstruction was, why it may be illegal. And after the president leaves office, the Justice Department could make a determination that he indeed broke the law and bring a case. And at the end of explaining why a determination was not made, Mueller says, if we had confidence after a thorough investigation of the facts that the president clearly did not commit obstruction of justice, we would so state. Based on the facts and the applicable legal standards, however, we are unable to reach that judgment. So Mueller is basically saying, if we felt comfortable that the president had done nothing wrong, we would tell you. And we are not telling you that. michael barbaro Well, Mike, you mentioned the incidents that he was not going to use as a basis for charging the president, because he felt he couldn’t charge the president. What were those that he laid out in the report? michael schmidt Well, there’s about a dozen. And they follow in chronological order how Trump misled the public about his relationship with Russia, misled the public about his knowledge that Russia was behind the hacks. And as the presidency goes on and Mueller is appointed in May of 2017, right after he takes office, the president starts to sort of lose his grip as he tries to maintain control of the investigation. He was intent on using his power as the head of the executive branch to protect himself and use the tools at his disposal — the people running the Justice Department, the F.B.I., the intelligence community — to help protect him from this investigation. michael barbaro And what are some examples of that — specifics? michael schmidt Well, a lot of them are ones that we know well. The firing of James Comey. His efforts to get his attorney general, Jeff Sessions, to un-recuse himself from the Russia investigation, essentially reassert his control over something that he has stepped aside from because he has a conflict of interest. And when the president can’t get that done, he basically tries to get rid of Sessions and install a loyalist atop the Justice Department. These are things that had been reported in the press. We get a fuller, richer picture of them. And we really see what the president was saying behind closed doors and the immense pressure he was putting on people to try and use the system to protect himself from the system. But then we learn about incidents that we knew little about, like how the president went completely outside of his administration in government to Corey Lewandowski, his first campaign manager. michael barbaro Mm-hmm. michael schmidt And he leaned on Corey in the summer of 2017 to try and pressure Sessions, his attorney general. So here’s the president of the United States using someone who doesn’t even work for him to get to Sessions and try and get Sessions out there publicly to help clear Trump’s name. It’s just a remarkable way of using presidential power. michael barbaro Which suggests that the president was meeting resistance within his own administration, and therefore reached out to somebody who didn’t even work for the government to try to get him to achieve this end. michael schmidt I don’t think many in the public will want to hold up the president’s aides as heroes, and a lot of them are probably not. But there is a picture here of folks that stopped the president time and time again and thwarted him from doing things that may have actually gotten him into trouble, that may have crossed that line, that may have made a stronger argument for Mueller about why the president did obstruct justice. One of the most detailed ones is on Trump’s efforts to get rid of Mueller and how his White House counsel would not do that. He would not call the Justice Department on the president’s behalf and say Mueller has to be removed for what the White House counsel, Don McGahn, thought were some bogus reasons Trump had cooked up about why he didn’t like Mueller. And in the document, as Mueller is recounting what happened in this incident, there are Nixonian echoes. It says, on June 17, 2017, the president called McGahn at home and directed him to call the acting attorney general and say that the special counsel had conflicts of interest and must be removed. McGahn did not carry out the direction, however, deciding that he would resign rather than trigger what he regarded as a potential “Saturday Night Massacre” — a reference to when Richard Nixon fired the special counsel who was investigating him. michael barbaro I recognize that this question is a little bit meta, but if getting rid of Mueller had meant that the report was never completed, wouldn’t that have finally been obstruction of justice? Because, literally, an investigation was obstructed. mark mazzetti There does seem to be a determination here about the success of the president’s efforts, or lack of success — that the fact that the Mueller investigation continued and finished means there is less of a case that the president obstructed justice. If there had been more of a Nixonian moment, where there was an 18-minute gap in tapes that were deliberately erased, that there was some tangible thing that had happened that had meant that prosecutors couldn’t get to the truth, there might possibly have been a different judgment and a different outcome. michael barbaro Right. I keep thinking of that 18-minute deletion when I think about Don McGahn. It’s as if nobody had ever said to Nixon what Don McGahn had said to President Trump — no, I’m not going to delete that tape. Sorry. But that’s what Don McGahn did to the president. That’s what happened with Trump over and over again. mark mazzetti Because everyone has seen “All the President’s Men,” and they know what happens. And, you know, you don’t want to be the guy who carries out the “Saturday Night Massacre.” michael barbaro So the president really has these people around him to thank, in a lot of ways. michael schmidt At the end of the day, there were these folks that were not going to go that extra inch and go over the line for him. And it looks like those measures probably saved him. mark mazzetti I mean, Mueller lays this point out explicitly. This is a quote from the report. “The president’s efforts to influence the investigation were mostly unsuccessful. But that is largely because the persons who surrounded the president declined to carry out orders or cede to his requests. Comey did not end the investigation of Flynn, which ultimately resulted in Flynn’s prosecution and conviction for lying to the F.B.I. McGahn did not tell the acting attorney general that the special counsel must be removed, but was instead prepared to resign over the president’s order. Lewandowski and Dearborn did not deliver the president’s message to Sessions that he should confine the Russian investigation to future election meddling only. And McGahn refused to recede from his recollections about events surrounding the president’s direction to have the special counsel removed, despite the president’s multiple demands to do so.” michael barbaro Hmm. And Mike, before seeing this report, our understanding of why Mueller may not have reached a conclusion on obstruction of justice was that obstruction has a lot to do with intent. Why did the president take the actions that he took? What did we learn from the report about how Mueller might have been thinking about that? michael schmidt We learn that the president was intent on ending the investigation into himself, but it’s less clear about what was truly motivating him. michael barbaro I guess I don’t quite understand that. If his intent is to end the investigation, how is that not obstruction of justice? mark mazzetti This is the heart of this dispute right now. michael schmidt Yeah. mark mazzetti It’s a clash of two theories. I mean, Mueller’s team clearly indicated that the actions come up to the line of obstruction of justice — that the intent to end the investigation to preserve his presidency does, in fact, approach something that is criminal obstruction of justice, even if they did not make that determination. The rub here is that it is at odds with the theory of Robert Mueller’s boss, Attorney General Barr. He got the job of attorney general, some say, based on his theory that the president can’t really obstruct justice. Barr says, today, in his press conference — archived recording (william barr) President Trump faced an unprecedented situation. As he entered into office and sought to perform his responsibilities as president, federal agents and prosecutors were scrutinizing his conduct before and after taking office. mark mazzetti At the heart of a obstruction of justice investigation is whether that person has corrupt intent. And his determination is that the president didn’t. And in a way, this big debate over the intent of the president — Barr kind of goes out of his way today to fill in the blanks, to sort of say, well, let’s look at the president’s intent. archived recording (william barr) At the same time, there was relentless speculation in the news media about the president’s personal culpability. Yet, as he said from the beginning, there was, in fact, no collusion. mark mazzetti The president felt that this was consuming his presidency. archived recording (william barr) There is substantial evidence to show that the president was frustrated and angered by his sincere belief that the investigation was undermining his presidency, propelled by his political opponents, and fueled by illegal leaks. Nonetheless, the White House fully cooperated with the special counsel’s investigation. mark mazzetti Yeah. He wanted this thing over. So in a way, what was one of the things that was so extraordinary about Barr’s press conference was that he explains the president’s reasoning in a way that the president hasn’t himself. michael barbaro So Barr would say that trying to end the investigation to protect the presidency is not corrupt motive. In fact, in his telling, it’s arguably even important, maybe even a little bit noble. It’s in the best interest of the American people. michael schmidt Perhaps patriotic. michael barbaro Hmm. mark mazzetti So there’s this totally compelling moment in the middle of the report that paints a scene of the president being told that a special counsel had just been appointed. And I’ll quote directly from the report. “The president slumped back in his chair and said, ‘Oh, my God. This is terrible. This is the end of my presidency. I’m fucked.’ The president became angry and lambasted the attorney general for his decision to recuse from the investigation, stating, ‘How could you let this happen, Jeff?’ The president said the position of attorney general was his most important appointment, and that Sessions had, quote, ‘let him down,’ contrasting him with Eric Holder and Robert Kennedy. Sessions recalled that the president said to him, ‘You were supposed to protect me,’ or words to that effect. The president returned to the consequences of the appointment and said, ‘Everyone tells me if you get one of these independent counsels, it ruins your presidency. It takes years and years, and I won’t be able to do anything. This is the worst thing that ever happened to me.’” The way this passage reads is the president’s anger about the appointment of a special counsel comes mostly from the recognition that it’s going to imperil his presidency. It means nothing will get done. It means that he’s going to spend the rest of his term fighting it. It’s not because he’s worried that Robert Mueller might find something that will one day land Donald Trump in jail. That’s one reading of this passage that would bolster the argument made by the attorney general that the president faced this extraordinary situation. michael schmidt I don’t think that makes any sense. Or at least I don’t understand it. I don’t understand how the attorney general can say there’s no issue of an underlying crime here when Donald Trump is sitting there acknowledging the potential threat from the depth and breadth of a special counsel’s investigation. He knew at that point, in May of 2017, that he had had his personal lawyer, Michael Cohen, make hush money payments to women. Donald Trump was smart enough to know that a special counsel — like in Bill Clinton or any other presidency — rummages around on one issue and ends up on another. And what happens? Mueller finds these weird transactions. He refers it to another U.S. attorney’s office. And the president is ultimately in a completely separate investigation, named as an unindicted co-conspirator. michael barbaro Hmm. michael schmidt How is there not an underlying crime that Donald Trump was afraid about? In July of 2017, myself and two colleagues go into the Oval Office to interview the president. He says, if Mueller looks at my finances, it’s crossing a red line. So what were Trump’s motivations for getting rid of Mueller? Was he really worried about Russia? Or was he worried that, hey, if this guy rummages around on Russia, he’s going to find something else? Indeed, he did. michael barbaro So Mike, you’re saying that Barr’s argument — that the president is just protecting the presidency — doesn’t really hold up. Because we know for a fact that the president understood, at this point, that when he says, I’m effed, that he has these payments made in coordination with Michael Cohen to these women as hush money, which have nothing to do with the Russia investigation, but which obviously could be incredibly damaging to him, and maybe even criminal. michael schmidt Look, no one has questioned the president about this in a law enforcement setting. I don’t know exactly what the president’s intentions were, but the idea that there was no underlying criminality in Donald Trump’s life in May of 2017, when Mueller got appointed, is bogus. Because there was. Further, in December of 2017, there is a report out there that Mueller has subpoenaed the president’s bank records. michael barbaro Mm-hmm. michael schmidt Before the president’s lawyers are able to get the message to him that the report is wrong, he starts telling White House aides that Mueller has to go. michael barbaro Hmm. michael schmidt I do think there’s a decent case to be made that there were underlying issues of criminality within his life. The Justice Department has said that itself. michael barbaro O.K. So regardless of the president’s intent, is it important whether or not he was successful in impeding this investigation, in thinking about the question of obstruction of justice? michael schmidt Well, I think for the folks at the Justice Department who had to make the call about whether the president broke the law, one of the factors that played into their declination decision was the fact that when you looked at the investigation, the efforts that the president took did not significantly damage the inquiry. michael barbaro Right. michael schmidt Despite the president’s best efforts, he was not very good at obstructing justice. michael barbaro Right. The existence of the Mueller report today suggests that the investigation did not get obstructed. michael schmidt Despite all of Donald Trump’s huffing and puffing and trying to get this person to do this and this person to do that, Bob Mueller moved ahead unimpeded for two years, finished his investigation, and the entire country got to see the fruits of it. Show us where the obstruction is, is what the president’s defenders would say. [music]  michael barbaro We’ll be right back. So finally, I want to talk about Bill Barr’s role in all this. Because the position of many Democrats today was that Barr — in reaching a decision on obstruction of justice where Mueller did not, in holding a press conference ahead of the report’s release seeming to defend the president, all taken together — has undermined any credibility that he had, and that Democrats and the country need to see for themselves what Mueller had found. How are you thinking about Barr in this moment, having now spent time with the Mueller report? mark mazzetti I mean, the one thing is clear is that this has been a lot of red meat for Democrats in Congress to keep investigating. And one of the things that they’re going to keep investigating is Barr’s role in this entire process. They are going to try to get him up to testify. They are going to try to get more underlying documents in the Mueller investigation. They now see Barr as a clear target for them. I think a lot of people, because of all these actions, have a much different picture of the attorney general than they did a month or two ago. michael barbaro And they’re going to try to understand the differences between what Bob Mueller thinks about all this — the supposedly nonpartisan figure — and what Bill Barr thinks about this — the presidential appointee whose allegiances are clearly closer to the president. michael schmidt There’s one answer to this. And that is that after this entire investigation in which Bob Mueller has said nothing publicly, including today, when there was a press conference held to talk about his report, we need to hear from Bob Mueller. We need for him to explain to us more how they came to this determination that they couldn’t say whether the president violated the law or not. Does Mueller think that Barr has misrepresented some of his findings? What was his relationship with the Justice Department? Did he believe that Congress should deal with this issue and that Barr shouldn’t have made a call on whether the president violated the law? We need to hear from Mueller. We have never heard his voice in the past two years. michael barbaro So inadvertently, in seeming to protect the president and not be representing Mueller, Bill Barr may be extending Democrats’ interest in this investigation and the trouble for the president. mark mazzetti Absolutely. If you look back at what Barr has done in the last month, this could have turned out differently for him — if he had put out the report immediately after the letter or as soon after the letter as he could have, if he had characterized the report differently in that four-page letter, and if he hadn’t had a press conference on the day of the release before anyone had seen the report that had this appearance of trying to spin it for the president and protect the president. That seems to have created more problems both for Barr and the president than if they had just released the report. michael barbaro Mark, thank you very much. Mike, thank you very much. mark mazzetti Thank you. michael schmidt Thanks for having us. [music]  michael barbaro “The Daily” is made by Theo Balcomb, Andy Mills, Lisa Tobin, Rachel Quester, Lynsea Garrison, Annie Brown, Clare Toeniskoetter, Paige Cowett, Michael Simon Johnson, Brad Fisher, Larissa Anderson, Wendy Dorr, Chris Wood, Jessica Cheung, Alexandra Leigh Young, Jonathan Wolfe, Lisa Chow, Eric Krupke and Marc Georges. Our theme music is by Jim Brunberg and Ben Landsverk of Wonderly. Special thanks to Sam Dolnick, Mikayla Bouchard, Stella Tan, Julia Simon and Samantha Henig. That’s it for “The Daily.” I’m Michael Barbaro. See you on Monday. Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device: Via Apple Podcasts | Via RadioPublic | Via Stitcher Two years and 448 pages later, a redacted version of the Mueller report has been made public. Here’s what we’ve learned. [For an exclusive look at how the biggest stories on “The Daily” podcast come together, subscribe to our newsletter. Read the latest edition here.] On today’s episode: Michael S. Schmidt, who covers national security and federal investigations for The New York Times. Mark Mazzetti, a Washington investigative correspondent for The Times. Background reading: The Mueller report laid out the scope of Russian election interference and President Trump’s frantic efforts to thwart the special counsel’s investigation. Read a rundown of what we know so far from the report.  Times reporters shared key annotated excerpts from the report. Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Follow Michael Barbaro on Twitter: @mikiebarb. And if you’re interested in advertising with “The Daily,” write to us at thedaily-ads@nytimes.com. Michael S. Schmidt and Mark Mazzetti contributed reporting. “The Mueller Report Is Released” was produced by Rachel Quester, Theo Balcomb and Paige Cowett, with help from Annie Brown, Eric Krupke, Luke Vander Ploeg and Clare Toeniskoetter, and edited by Lisa Tobin. “The Daily” is made by Theo Balcomb, Andy Mills, Lisa Tobin, Rachel Quester, Lynsea Garrison, Annie Brown, Clare Toeniskoetter, Paige Cowett, Michael Simon Johnson, Brad Fisher, Larissa Anderson, Wendy Dorr, Chris Wood, Jessica Cheung, Alexandra Leigh Young, Jonathan Wolfe, Lisa Chow, Eric Krupke, Marc Georges and Luke Vander Ploeg. Our theme music is by Jim Brunberg and Ben Landsverk of Wonderly. Special thanks to Sam Dolnick, Mikayla Bouchard, Stella Tan, Julia Simon and Samantha Henig.Supported by By Katie Benner WASHINGTON — Attorney General William P. Barr will release the highly anticipated special counsel’s report to Congress and to the public on Thursday morning, a Justice Department spokeswoman said Monday. Mr. Barr will release the report after department lawyers black out secret grand jury testimony, classified information, material related to continuing investigations and other delicate information, said the spokeswoman, Kerri Kupec. Investigators for the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, found no conspiracy between Russia’s 2016 election interference and Trump associates, Mr. Barr told lawmakers last month in a letter outlining their main findings. They declined to make a decision on whether President Trump illegally obstructed justice but stopped short of exonerating him, but Mr. Barr and Rod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general, stepped in and concluded that Mr. Trump had not committed an obstruction offense. Mr. Barr has come under fire for that decision and for other aspects of his handling of the report. Some of Mr. Mueller’s investigators have told associates that Mr. Barr played down the negative implications for Mr. Trump when he shared their main conclusions, and lawmakers have demanded the full text of the document. The leaders of the House Intelligence Committee asked the Justice Department and the F.B.I. on Monday to share counterintelligence information that investigators uncovered during the inquiry and for Mr. Mueller to brief their panel. “We look forward to the department and the bureau’s continued cooperation with the committee on this matter of grave national importance,” wrote Representative Adam B. Schiff, Democrat of California and the chairman of the committee, and Representative Devin Nunes of California, the panel’s top Republican, citing the committee’s role in conducting oversight of counterintelligence matters. Mr. Barr said in hearings last week that he would work with lawmakers to allow them to see some of the information he is redacting from the report. And he has promised to be as transparent as possible and said the redacted report would give the public an accurate picture of the investigative findings. “Everyone will soon be able to read it on their own,” Mr. Barr wrote to lawmakers last month. [Read the key Mueller findings.] No matter how much information is redacted, the report, at nearly 400 pages, is certain to upend Washington. White House aides, lawmakers and anyone with a stake in the findings have begun preparing to digest them and spin them to their advantage. Once the White House receives the report, Emmet T. Flood, the White House lawyer dealing with the investigation, will read it and brief Mr. Trump; other aides plan to examine it for information related to obstruction of justice, according to people familiar with their plan. Mr. Trump, who has a typical schedule on Thursday, including plans to meet with Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and to participate in a veterans event with the first lady, has sought to define the report before its release. He incorrectly declared a “total exoneration” when Mr. Barr delivered the bottom-line conclusions last month. Mr. Barr has pushed back on criticisms of his handling of the report, reminding members of Congress that he was giving them more information than he was required to under the regulations governing the special counsel and noting that the rules were written by Clinton administration officials seeking to avoid a repeat of the lengthy Starr report, which contained lurid sexual details about President Bill Clinton’s affair with Monica Lewinsky and analysis of potential crimes that the president was not ultimately charged with. Mr. Barr also said that Mr. Mueller had declined an offer to review his letter outlining the investigation’s main conclusions and that Mr. Mueller “has a fuller explanation” of why he did not come to a conclusion on obstruction that will be in the report. Mr. Barr has also said he will make himself available to testify on Capitol Hill after the report is released. More than two years of criminal indictments and steady revelations about Trump campaign contacts with Russians reveal the scope of the special counsel investigation. While the special counsel rules allow the attorney general to decide whether to share the report with the public and how much of it to release, Democrats have shown an unwillingness to rely on Mr. Barr’s judgments. The House Judiciary Committee voted to authorize its chairman, Representative Jerrold Nadler, Democrat of New York, to subpoena Mr. Barr to compel him to turn over an unredacted copy of the special counsel’s report as well as its underlying investigative files. Mr. Barr told senators last week that releasing the redacted report would be the first step in what promises to be a protracted back-and-forth with Democratic lawmakers over how much of the document they are allowed to see. “I intend to take up with the House and Senate Judiciary committees, the chairmen and ranking members of each, what other areas they feel they have a need to have access to the information and see if I can work to accommodate that,” Mr. Barr said. Democrats did not accept his reassurances. Senator Patrick J. Leahy, Democrat of Vermont, said that any attempt to hide pieces of the report would “only fuel suspicions that the Justice Department, which represents the United States, is playing the role of President Trump’s defense team.” Representative Doug Collins of Georgia, the House Judiciary Committee’s top Republican, has also asked that the committee invite Mr. Mueller to testify. “It is Special Counsel Mueller who is best positioned to testify regarding the underlying facts and material in which you are so interested,” Mr. Collins wrote in a letter to Mr. Nadler. Maggie Haberman contributed reporting from New York, and Annie Karni from Washington. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.   

Supported by By Katie Benner WASHINGTON — Attorney General William P. Barr will release the highly anticipated special counsel’s report to Congress and to the public on Thursday morning, a Justice Department spokeswoman said Monday. Mr. Barr will release the report after department lawyers black out secret grand jury testimony, classified information, material related to continuing investigations and other delicate information, said the spokeswoman, Kerri Kupec. Investigators for the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, found no conspiracy between Russia’s 2016 election interference and Trump associates, Mr. Barr told lawmakers last month in a letter outlining their main findings. They declined to make a decision on whether President Trump illegally obstructed justice but stopped short of exonerating him, but Mr. Barr and Rod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general, stepped in and concluded that Mr. Trump had not committed an obstruction offense. Mr. Barr has come under fire for that decision and for other aspects of his handling of the report. Some of Mr. Mueller’s investigators have told associates that Mr. Barr played down the negative implications for Mr. Trump when he shared their main conclusions, and lawmakers have demanded the full text of the document. The leaders of the House Intelligence Committee asked the Justice Department and the F.B.I. on Monday to share counterintelligence information that investigators uncovered during the inquiry and for Mr. Mueller to brief their panel. “We look forward to the department and the bureau’s continued cooperation with the committee on this matter of grave national importance,” wrote Representative Adam B. Schiff, Democrat of California and the chairman of the committee, and Representative Devin Nunes of California, the panel’s top Republican, citing the committee’s role in conducting oversight of counterintelligence matters. Mr. Barr said in hearings last week that he would work with lawmakers to allow them to see some of the information he is redacting from the report. And he has promised to be as transparent as possible and said the redacted report would give the public an accurate picture of the investigative findings. “Everyone will soon be able to read it on their own,” Mr. Barr wrote to lawmakers last month. [Read the key Mueller findings.] No matter how much information is redacted, the report, at nearly 400 pages, is certain to upend Washington. White House aides, lawmakers and anyone with a stake in the findings have begun preparing to digest them and spin them to their advantage. Once the White House receives the report, Emmet T. Flood, the White House lawyer dealing with the investigation, will read it and brief Mr. Trump; other aides plan to examine it for information related to obstruction of justice, according to people familiar with their plan. Mr. Trump, who has a typical schedule on Thursday, including plans to meet with Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and to participate in a veterans event with the first lady, has sought to define the report before its release. He incorrectly declared a “total exoneration” when Mr. Barr delivered the bottom-line conclusions last month. Mr. Barr has pushed back on criticisms of his handling of the report, reminding members of Congress that he was giving them more information than he was required to under the regulations governing the special counsel and noting that the rules were written by Clinton administration officials seeking to avoid a repeat of the lengthy Starr report, which contained lurid sexual details about President Bill Clinton’s affair with Monica Lewinsky and analysis of potential crimes that the president was not ultimately charged with. Mr. Barr also said that Mr. Mueller had declined an offer to review his letter outlining the investigation’s main conclusions and that Mr. Mueller “has a fuller explanation” of why he did not come to a conclusion on obstruction that will be in the report. Mr. Barr has also said he will make himself available to testify on Capitol Hill after the report is released. More than two years of criminal indictments and steady revelations about Trump campaign contacts with Russians reveal the scope of the special counsel investigation. While the special counsel rules allow the attorney general to decide whether to share the report with the public and how much of it to release, Democrats have shown an unwillingness to rely on Mr. Barr’s judgments. The House Judiciary Committee voted to authorize its chairman, Representative Jerrold Nadler, Democrat of New York, to subpoena Mr. Barr to compel him to turn over an unredacted copy of the special counsel’s report as well as its underlying investigative files. Mr. Barr told senators last week that releasing the redacted report would be the first step in what promises to be a protracted back-and-forth with Democratic lawmakers over how much of the document they are allowed to see. “I intend to take up with the House and Senate Judiciary committees, the chairmen and ranking members of each, what other areas they feel they have a need to have access to the information and see if I can work to accommodate that,” Mr. Barr said. Democrats did not accept his reassurances. Senator Patrick J. Leahy, Democrat of Vermont, said that any attempt to hide pieces of the report would “only fuel suspicions that the Justice Department, which represents the United States, is playing the role of President Trump’s defense team.” Representative Doug Collins of Georgia, the House Judiciary Committee’s top Republican, has also asked that the committee invite Mr. Mueller to testify. “It is Special Counsel Mueller who is best positioned to testify regarding the underlying facts and material in which you are so interested,” Mr. Collins wrote in a letter to Mr. Nadler. Maggie Haberman contributed reporting from New York, and Annie Karni from Washington. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.   Supported by By The Associated Press NEW YORK — President Donald Trump and his team love to deride unfavorable stories as "fake news," but it's clear from Robert Mueller's report that the special counsel isn't buying it. While there are a few exceptions, Mueller's investigation repeatedly supports news reporting that was done on the Russia probe over the last two years and details several instances where the president and his team sought to mislead the public. "The media looks a lot stronger today than it did before the release of this report," Kyle Pope, editor of the Columbia Journalism Review, said Friday. Trump's supporters believe that Mueller's determination that there was not enough evidence to show that the president or his team worked with the Russians to influence the 2016 election delegitimizes the attention given to the story. Fox News Channel's Laura Ingraham message to the news media: "You owe us an apology." But the news stories were, for the great part, accurate. For instance, Mueller's report shows The New York Times and The Washington Post were correct when they reported in January 2018 that Trump ordered White House counsel Don McGahn to make sure Mueller was fired, and that McGahn decided to resign rather than carry that out. When the Times first reported the story, Trump described it as "fake news, folks, fake news." The Mueller report also showed that Trump directed a series of aides to ask McGahn to publicly deny the story, and ultimately asked himself, too. McGahn refused, saying the story was accurate, the report found. In a July 2017 story, the Times reported that the president personally wrote a statement in which he falsely said that an election year meeting between some Russians and his son, Donald Jr., was about the adoption of Russian children, rather than about obtaining potentially damaging information on Hillary Clinton's campaign. Trump's counsel repeatedly responded that the president had no role in writing the statement, yet months later testified under oath to investigators that Trump had dictated it. Mueller's report also backed up the newspaper's stories, which the administration denied at the time, that Trump demanded loyalty from then-FBI Director James Comey at a private dinner, and that Trump had asked Comey to end an investigation into former national security adviser Michael Flynn. "The Mueller report confirmed again and again that stories in The New York Times for the past two years were the opposite of 'fake news,'" said Elisabeth Bumiller, the paper's Washington bureau chief. "They were meticulously reported, carefully sourced and accurate stories that told readers what was really going on at the White House." Washington Post columnist David Ignatius reported before Trump's inauguration that Flynn had talked to Russian ambassador Sergey Kislyak about sanctions placed on Russia by the outgoing Obama administration. Mueller said that Trump put out word that he wanted Flynn to kill the story, and that Flynn ordered aide K.T. McFarland to deny it to the Post, "although she knew she was providing false information." Others in the administration, including Vice President Mike Pence, also denied it. Flynn resigned when the truth became evident. Trump repeatedly said during the 2016 campaign that he had no business dealings in Russia when, even as he uttered the words, his company was seeking to build a Trump Towers office building in Moscow. When Trump's lawyer, Michael Cohen, privately pointed out that the denial was untrue, the future president said "why mention it if it is not a deal?" the report said. Mueller also determined that a statement by White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders that Comey had been unpopular with rank-and-file members of his agency "was not founded on anything." Sanders said on ABC Friday that her statement was "a slip of the tongue." Mueller, however, did shoot down a BuzzFeed News report that Trump had directed Cohen to lie to Congress about the timing of the Moscow project. Mueller said that while it appeared Trump knew Cohen was lying to Congress, "the evidence available to us does not establish that the president directed or aided Cohen's false testimony." BuzzFeed News editor-in-chief Ben Smith said the organization's sources, who were federal law enforcement officials, "interpreted the evidence Cohen presented as meaning that the president 'directed' Cohen to lie. We now know that Mueller did not." Smith said BuzzFeed will continue to pursue the story through Freedom of Information requests and in court. Mueller also contradicted a McClatchy news service story alleging that Cohen had traveled to Prague, in the Czech Republic, in summer 2016 to meet with Russians involved in the effort to influence the election. Mueller's report said that Cohen had not gone to Prague. McClatchy attached an editor's note to its story reporting Mueller's conclusion but adding that his report "is silent on whether the investigators received evidence that Mr. Cohen's phone pinged in an area near Prague, as McClatchy reported." CJR's Pope said so many of the stories surrounding Trump had been made foggy by denials and "fake news" claims over the past two years. He said he was surprised so much of Mueller's report backed up journalists, although it's too soon to tell whether the findings will influence two very divided political camps. "I think it casts the coverage of him in a much different light," he said.

Supported by By The Associated Press NEW YORK — President Donald Trump and his team love to deride unfavorable stories as "fake news," but it's clear from Robert Mueller's report that the special counsel isn't buying it. While there are a few exceptions, Mueller's investigation repeatedly supports news reporting that was done on the Russia probe over the last two years and details several instances where the president and his team sought to mislead the public. "The media looks a lot stronger today than it did before the release of this report," Kyle Pope, editor of the Columbia Journalism Review, said Friday. Trump's supporters believe that Mueller's determination that there was not enough evidence to show that the president or his team worked with the Russians to influence the 2016 election delegitimizes the attention given to the story. Fox News Channel's Laura Ingraham message to the news media: "You owe us an apology." But the news stories were, for the great part, accurate. For instance, Mueller's report shows The New York Times and The Washington Post were correct when they reported in January 2018 that Trump ordered White House counsel Don McGahn to make sure Mueller was fired, and that McGahn decided to resign rather than carry that out. When the Times first reported the story, Trump described it as "fake news, folks, fake news." The Mueller report also showed that Trump directed a series of aides to ask McGahn to publicly deny the story, and ultimately asked himself, too. McGahn refused, saying the story was accurate, the report found. In a July 2017 story, the Times reported that the president personally wrote a statement in which he falsely said that an election year meeting between some Russians and his son, Donald Jr., was about the adoption of Russian children, rather than about obtaining potentially damaging information on Hillary Clinton's campaign. Trump's counsel repeatedly responded that the president had no role in writing the statement, yet months later testified under oath to investigators that Trump had dictated it. Mueller's report also backed up the newspaper's stories, which the administration denied at the time, that Trump demanded loyalty from then-FBI Director James Comey at a private dinner, and that Trump had asked Comey to end an investigation into former national security adviser Michael Flynn. "The Mueller report confirmed again and again that stories in The New York Times for the past two years were the opposite of 'fake news,'" said Elisabeth Bumiller, the paper's Washington bureau chief. "They were meticulously reported, carefully sourced and accurate stories that told readers what was really going on at the White House." Washington Post columnist David Ignatius reported before Trump's inauguration that Flynn had talked to Russian ambassador Sergey Kislyak about sanctions placed on Russia by the outgoing Obama administration. Mueller said that Trump put out word that he wanted Flynn to kill the story, and that Flynn ordered aide K.T. McFarland to deny it to the Post, "although she knew she was providing false information." Others in the administration, including Vice President Mike Pence, also denied it. Flynn resigned when the truth became evident. Trump repeatedly said during the 2016 campaign that he had no business dealings in Russia when, even as he uttered the words, his company was seeking to build a Trump Towers office building in Moscow. When Trump's lawyer, Michael Cohen, privately pointed out that the denial was untrue, the future president said "why mention it if it is not a deal?" the report said. Mueller also determined that a statement by White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders that Comey had been unpopular with rank-and-file members of his agency "was not founded on anything." Sanders said on ABC Friday that her statement was "a slip of the tongue." Mueller, however, did shoot down a BuzzFeed News report that Trump had directed Cohen to lie to Congress about the timing of the Moscow project. Mueller said that while it appeared Trump knew Cohen was lying to Congress, "the evidence available to us does not establish that the president directed or aided Cohen's false testimony." BuzzFeed News editor-in-chief Ben Smith said the organization's sources, who were federal law enforcement officials, "interpreted the evidence Cohen presented as meaning that the president 'directed' Cohen to lie. We now know that Mueller did not." Smith said BuzzFeed will continue to pursue the story through Freedom of Information requests and in court. Mueller also contradicted a McClatchy news service story alleging that Cohen had traveled to Prague, in the Czech Republic, in summer 2016 to meet with Russians involved in the effort to influence the election. Mueller's report said that Cohen had not gone to Prague. McClatchy attached an editor's note to its story reporting Mueller's conclusion but adding that his report "is silent on whether the investigators received evidence that Mr. Cohen's phone pinged in an area near Prague, as McClatchy reported." CJR's Pope said so many of the stories surrounding Trump had been made foggy by denials and "fake news" claims over the past two years. He said he was surprised so much of Mueller's report backed up journalists, although it's too soon to tell whether the findings will influence two very divided political camps. "I think it casts the coverage of him in a much different light," he said.