Supported by In response to Trump’s presidency, America has gotten more liberal — despite appearances to the contrary. Will it matter in 2020? By Thomas B. Edsall Mr. Edsall contributes a weekly column from Washington, D.C. on politics, demographics and inequality. With more than a year and a half to go before the 2020 elections, Republicans can take comfort in a number of factors. The result of the Mueller investigation has set back Democratic hopes for an easy victory; the history of presidents running for a second term favors incumbents; and the economy under Trump is booming. Trump, however, has stepped on his own re-election prospects. His 2020 budget proposal calls for a $845 billion cut over 10 years in Medicare, a $25 billion cut in Social Security and a $1.5 trillion cut in Medicaid — programs that benefit the old, the disabled and the poor. More recently, the Department of Justice announced its support for a suit brought by a group of Republican attorneys general seeking to have the entire Affordable Care Act — which currently provides medical care for 8.5 million Americans — declared invalid. This foreshadows Trump’s gamble on his continuing ability to sell the dark issues of racial resentment and cultural alienation that dominated the 2016 campaign. But what is the current state of play in the American electorate? Two major studies released this month, the General Social Survey and the Cooperative Congressional Election Study, reveal some generally positive trends for Democrats: defections in the Midwest among Trump voters, as well as a shift to the left among all voters on issues of race, immigration and spending on the poor. G. Elliott Morris, a political analyst for The Economist, examined state-by-state data in the Cooperative Congressional Election Study. In an email, Morris wrote that the 2018 results make it clear that the president has lost a significant amount of support across the nation, both among his “core" or “base” supporters and the rest.  While millions of suburban whites who voted for Trump in 2016 cast ballots in 2018 for Democratic House and Senate candidates, “the defection runs much deeper than that,” Morris said. Not only did better-off suburbanites defect, “but more important so did working class whites.” “My analysis of the 2018 C.C.E.S. data,” Morris continued, “finds that 7 percent of white voters without a college education left Trump’s side.” These non-college whites were crucial to Trump’s Electoral College victory, and “small numbers of defections could make a big difference,” especially in the Midwest, where, according to Morris, they make up 57 percent of the voters, compared with 47 percent nationwide. In 2016, Trump capitalized on hostility to immigrants and minorities. Tom Wood, a political scientist at Ohio State, examined the General Social Survey data and found a noticeable, albeit modest, increase in social and cultural tolerance in 2018 among all voters. That a rise in tolerance is a negative for Republicans speaks for itself. “Quite contrary to popular concerns,” Wood wrote in an email, “it seems that the American public has only grown more tolerant and inclusive over recent decades,” before adding, “There’s been meaningful improvement, or stability, in each of these measures of tolerance since the early 1990s.” The General Social Survey found, for example, growing numbers in favor of federal spending for the poor. Among all those surveyed, the percentage saying that too little is spent on the poor rose from 70 percent in 2014 to 86 percent in 2018 among Democrats and from 38 to 56 percent among Republicans. “I’d be reluctant to infer too much about this for the electoral stakes for 2020,” Wood wrote, but it does suggest that much anguishing about the U.S. electorate — that it’s growing more adverse to minorities, and is becoming scientifically uniformed on issues of high political charge — is basically wrong. In another development with substantial political consequences, the national religious landscape is changing in a direction favorable to the left: Americans with no religious affiliation — a disproportionately Democratic constituency — have now become the largest religious group, edging past evangelical Americans and Catholics by the slimmest of margins, as the accompanying graphic shows. Percentage of Americans by religious affiliation, or lack of one. Evangelical Protestant 30% 28 27 Catholic 23.1 23.0 22.5 20% Mainline protestant 17 14 No religion 11 10% Black Protestant 6 6 5 Other faith 4 3 Jewish 2 1972 1980 1990 2000 2010 2018 Evangelical Protestant 30% 28 27 Catholic 23.1 23.0 22.5 Mainline Protestant No religion 20% 17 14 11 10% Black Protestant 6 6 5 Other faith 4 Jewish 3 2 1972 1980s 1990s 2000s 2010s 2018 By The New York Times | Source: analysis of General Social Survey data by Ryan P. Burge, Eastern Illinois University; figures do not add up to 100 percent because the surveys did not classify some respondents. The rise of nonbelievers is even more politically significant if white evangelicals are considered separately from their heavily Democratic black, Hispanic and other minority counterparts. White evangelicals, according to Ryan Burge, a political scientist at Eastern Illinois University, now make up 18.6 percent of the population, 4.4 percentage points less than the 23 percent of the population who profess no religious commitment. Among white evangelicals, Republicans outnumber Democrats 61.1 percent to 21.7 percent, according to Burge. Among those without religious affiliation, Democrats outnumber Republicans 53 percent to 21.5 percent. Robert Jones, the C.E.O. of the Public Religion Research Institute, and Paul Djupe, a political scientist at Denison University, observe that the edging out of white evangelicals by the nonreligious — known to pollsters as “Nones” — is almost certain to drive remaining white evangelicals further into the ranks of the Republican Party. Jones wrote in an email that, according to the new General Society Survey data, “today, the religiously unaffiliated outnumber white evangelical Protestants” by nearly 7 percentage points. The decrease in the percentage of white evangelicals began, Jones continued, during President Barack Obama’s eight years in power. According to Jones,  the anxieties that produced about a changing country and white evangelicals’ place in it were actually integral to pushing white evangelical Protestants toward support for Donald Trump in 2016. So these changes are not just now upon us; they’ve been an engine driving the political dynamics for some time. But the new G.S.S. data shows them continuing unabated. In other words, in the short term, as they feel they are being eclipsed, white evangelicals become more politically engaged, more assertive — and more dangerous to their opponents. Burge claims, however, that the long-term future of the conservative evangelical movement could be in doubt: It’s going to run into a demographic brick wall going forward. 81 percent of evangelicals in 2018 were white, compared to 72.4 percent of the overall population.  Among younger voters 18 to 25, “only 60 percent are white,” according to Burge. Ultimately, Burge argued, hitching their wagon to Trump may stave off some losses now, but it may be a fatal strategy in ten or twenty years. While the trends highlighted in the Cooperative Congressional Election Study and General Social Survey are generally favorable to the Democratic Party, they also point to obstacles Democrats face. Stephen Ansolabehere, a political scientist at Harvard, noted that more than two thirds of sitting presidents have been re-elected. He went on to point out that “presidential second term elections are driven strongly by the economy.” Ansolabehere maintains that if the economy is steaming along Trump will have the wind in his sails. The presidents who faltered in recent memory are Carter and Bush senior, both of whom faced weak economies. Brian Schaffner, a political scientist at Tufts, raised another issue. “There is certainly some good news for Democrats,” he wrote, but “the caveat seems to be that opinion is mostly moving for the people who were already inclined to support Democrats,” before adding: “What we don’t see is much movement among Republicans.” Schaffner, who serves along with Ansolabehere as a principal investigator at the Cooperative Congressional Election Study, also cautioned in an email against putting too much stock in the data showing that some voters who had cast ballots for Trump switched to Democratic House candidates in 2018. “The C.C.E.S. data do show that about twice as many Trump voters flipped to supporting Democrats in 2018 as Clinton voters switched to Republicans,” Schaffner wrote, “which suggests that a lot of those ‘blue wall’ states from 2016 may be leaning against Trump slightly as we head to 2020.” He warned, however, “that all of these shifts are relatively small in the aggregate, which means we aren’t necessarily too far from where we were in November, 2016.” While Trump in 2016 benefited from “a decent amount of luck” in losing the popular vote but winning the Electoral College, “it is certainly possible that it could happen again absent some larger shift in opinion.” “On paper, the election is the Democrats' to lose,” Zach Goldberg, a political scientist at Georgia State University, contended in an email. The problem for Democrats, in Goldberg’s view, is that the party and its candidate lack a coherent immigration policy or message that addresses the reasonable concerns of non-cosmopolitan voters. They’ve yet to grapple with the serious tension between supporting chain-based immigration and advocating for the enlargement of the welfare state. Moral appeals (“we’re a nation of immigrants”) will only take them so far, and often backfires. Goldberg has developed his own tolerance measure that points to a significant internal conflict among Democrats. What Goldberg found is that among whites, young liberals between the ages of 18 and 29 had the lowest levels of tolerance for racist speech, with a 1.31 score. In contrast, those with the highest tolerance scores were white liberals over the age of 50 (1.84) and young white conservatives (1.94). The 2018 Cooperative Congressional Election Study raises another question about the validity of pro-Democratic predictions based on these large-scale surveys. Alexander Agadjanian, a senior research associate in the political science department at M.I.T., pointed out that Democrats make up the largest share of those moving in a liberal direction on racial issues, while independent voters showed much smaller movement in a liberal direction. “Wow,” Agadjanian declared on Twitter, “white Democrats continue huge movement left on issues of race into 2018,” as the accompanying chart shows. Percentage of white Americans, by political affiliation, who agree with these two statements. Generations of slavery and discrimination have created conditions that make it difficult for blacks to work their way out of the lower class. Irish, Italian, Jewish and many other minorities overcame prejudice and worked their way up. Blacks should do the same without any special favors. 100% AGREE Republicans 84 82 75% Democrats 71 62 59 Independents 50% 47 45 Independents 32 25% Democrats 27 17 16 13 Republicans 2010 ’12 ’14 ’16 ’18 ’10 ’12 ’14 ’16 ’18 Generations of slavery and discrimination have created conditions that make it difficult for blacks to work their way out of the lower class. Irish, Italian, Jewish and many other minorities overcame prejudice and worked their way up. Blacks should do the same without any special favors. 100% AGREE Republicans 84 82 75% 71 62 Democrats 59 Independents 50% 47 45 Democrats 32 Independents 25% 27 17 16 13 Republicans 2010 ’12 ’14 ’16 ’18 ’10 ’12 ’14 ’16 ’18 By The New York Times | Source: analysis of Cooperative Congressional Election Study data by Alexander Agadjanian, M.I.T. Election Lab; independents include those who don’t lean toward either party. These findings suggest that there are two reasons Democratic strategists should be wary of overreliance on rising levels of racial liberalism. First, most of the shift is among voters who are already loyal Democrats and therefore it does not represent major additional support for the party. Second, the shift is as much or more a response to Trump’s racism as it is a genuine shift in opinion. An article of faith among political professionals is that incumbents are helped by a strong economy. It is, however, not clear that this will apply to Trump, whose appeal in 2016 was strongest in sections of the country suffering economic distress. Another unknown is whether support for Trump’s re-election by the members of the white working class will be diminished — and turnout constrained — by any success the administration has in ameliorating their economic suffering. Put another way, insofar as anger over economic conditions motivated high turnout and approval among a key segment of Trump voters in 2016, it may be less of a motivating force in 2020. Jed Kolko, chief economist at Indeed, an online job site, produced graphics from the G.S.S. survey suggesting that unless the economy goes south, Trump’s white base will be far less discontented in 2020 than it was in 2016. Kolko found that in 2016, 31 percent of white Republicans said they did not expect their standard of living to improve; in 2018, only 8 percent were that pessimistic. Pessimism about future living standards declined only slightly for Democrats, from 24 to 21 percent. Trump’s explosive persona, the investigations underway in the House and by state and federal prosecutors, not to mention the quality of the Democratic nominee, will all play a crucial role in 2020 — along with much we cannot yet imagine. While many political analysts believe that the presidential contest favors the Democrats, Republicans have some advantages. Most important, at this point none of the Democratic presidential candidates has developed an authoritative and credible strategy to turn out loyal constituencies in large numbers while attracting persuadable but less liberal voters torn between left and right. Furthermore, the very diversity and heterogeneity of the Democratic coalition — one of its core strengths — has attracted an extraordinary range of candidates, which in and of itself breeds a diffusion of focus — what The Atlantic’s Ron Brownstein calls tough competition for “almost every group of voters imaginable.” Along those lines, Democrats have demonstrated a spectacular talent for tripping themselves up over the years, for losing when victory is in reach. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Thomas B. Edsall has been a contributor to The Times Opinion section since 2011. His column on strategic and demographic trends in American politics appears every Wednesday. He previously covered politics for The Washington Post.   @edsall 

Supported by In response to Trump’s presidency, America has gotten more liberal — despite appearances to the contrary. Will it matter in 2020? By Thomas B. Edsall Mr. Edsall contributes a weekly column from Washington, D.C. on politics, demographics and inequality. With more than a year and a half to go before the 2020 elections, Republicans can take comfort in a number of factors. The result of the Mueller investigation has set back Democratic hopes for an easy victory; the history of presidents running for a second term favors incumbents; and the economy under Trump is booming. Trump, however, has stepped on his own re-election prospects. His 2020 budget proposal calls for a $845 billion cut over 10 years in Medicare, a $25 billion cut in Social Security and a $1.5 trillion cut in Medicaid — programs that benefit the old, the disabled and the poor. More recently, the Department of Justice announced its support for a suit brought by a group of Republican attorneys general seeking to have the entire Affordable Care Act — which currently provides medical care for 8.5 million Americans — declared invalid. This foreshadows Trump’s gamble on his continuing ability to sell the dark issues of racial resentment and cultural alienation that dominated the 2016 campaign. But what is the current state of play in the American electorate? Two major studies released this month, the General Social Survey and the Cooperative Congressional Election Study, reveal some generally positive trends for Democrats: defections in the Midwest among Trump voters, as well as a shift to the left among all voters on issues of race, immigration and spending on the poor. G. Elliott Morris, a political analyst for The Economist, examined state-by-state data in the Cooperative Congressional Election Study. In an email, Morris wrote that the 2018 results make it clear that the president has lost a significant amount of support across the nation, both among his “core" or “base” supporters and the rest.  While millions of suburban whites who voted for Trump in 2016 cast ballots in 2018 for Democratic House and Senate candidates, “the defection runs much deeper than that,” Morris said. Not only did better-off suburbanites defect, “but more important so did working class whites.” “My analysis of the 2018 C.C.E.S. data,” Morris continued, “finds that 7 percent of white voters without a college education left Trump’s side.” These non-college whites were crucial to Trump’s Electoral College victory, and “small numbers of defections could make a big difference,” especially in the Midwest, where, according to Morris, they make up 57 percent of the voters, compared with 47 percent nationwide. In 2016, Trump capitalized on hostility to immigrants and minorities. Tom Wood, a political scientist at Ohio State, examined the General Social Survey data and found a noticeable, albeit modest, increase in social and cultural tolerance in 2018 among all voters. That a rise in tolerance is a negative for Republicans speaks for itself. “Quite contrary to popular concerns,” Wood wrote in an email, “it seems that the American public has only grown more tolerant and inclusive over recent decades,” before adding, “There’s been meaningful improvement, or stability, in each of these measures of tolerance since the early 1990s.” The General Social Survey found, for example, growing numbers in favor of federal spending for the poor. Among all those surveyed, the percentage saying that too little is spent on the poor rose from 70 percent in 2014 to 86 percent in 2018 among Democrats and from 38 to 56 percent among Republicans. “I’d be reluctant to infer too much about this for the electoral stakes for 2020,” Wood wrote, but it does suggest that much anguishing about the U.S. electorate — that it’s growing more adverse to minorities, and is becoming scientifically uniformed on issues of high political charge — is basically wrong. In another development with substantial political consequences, the national religious landscape is changing in a direction favorable to the left: Americans with no religious affiliation — a disproportionately Democratic constituency — have now become the largest religious group, edging past evangelical Americans and Catholics by the slimmest of margins, as the accompanying graphic shows. Percentage of Americans by religious affiliation, or lack of one. Evangelical Protestant 30% 28 27 Catholic 23.1 23.0 22.5 20% Mainline protestant 17 14 No religion 11 10% Black Protestant 6 6 5 Other faith 4 3 Jewish 2 1972 1980 1990 2000 2010 2018 Evangelical Protestant 30% 28 27 Catholic 23.1 23.0 22.5 Mainline Protestant No religion 20% 17 14 11 10% Black Protestant 6 6 5 Other faith 4 Jewish 3 2 1972 1980s 1990s 2000s 2010s 2018 By The New York Times | Source: analysis of General Social Survey data by Ryan P. Burge, Eastern Illinois University; figures do not add up to 100 percent because the surveys did not classify some respondents. The rise of nonbelievers is even more politically significant if white evangelicals are considered separately from their heavily Democratic black, Hispanic and other minority counterparts. White evangelicals, according to Ryan Burge, a political scientist at Eastern Illinois University, now make up 18.6 percent of the population, 4.4 percentage points less than the 23 percent of the population who profess no religious commitment. Among white evangelicals, Republicans outnumber Democrats 61.1 percent to 21.7 percent, according to Burge. Among those without religious affiliation, Democrats outnumber Republicans 53 percent to 21.5 percent. Robert Jones, the C.E.O. of the Public Religion Research Institute, and Paul Djupe, a political scientist at Denison University, observe that the edging out of white evangelicals by the nonreligious — known to pollsters as “Nones” — is almost certain to drive remaining white evangelicals further into the ranks of the Republican Party. Jones wrote in an email that, according to the new General Society Survey data, “today, the religiously unaffiliated outnumber white evangelical Protestants” by nearly 7 percentage points. The decrease in the percentage of white evangelicals began, Jones continued, during President Barack Obama’s eight years in power. According to Jones,  the anxieties that produced about a changing country and white evangelicals’ place in it were actually integral to pushing white evangelical Protestants toward support for Donald Trump in 2016. So these changes are not just now upon us; they’ve been an engine driving the political dynamics for some time. But the new G.S.S. data shows them continuing unabated. In other words, in the short term, as they feel they are being eclipsed, white evangelicals become more politically engaged, more assertive — and more dangerous to their opponents. Burge claims, however, that the long-term future of the conservative evangelical movement could be in doubt: It’s going to run into a demographic brick wall going forward. 81 percent of evangelicals in 2018 were white, compared to 72.4 percent of the overall population.  Among younger voters 18 to 25, “only 60 percent are white,” according to Burge. Ultimately, Burge argued, hitching their wagon to Trump may stave off some losses now, but it may be a fatal strategy in ten or twenty years. While the trends highlighted in the Cooperative Congressional Election Study and General Social Survey are generally favorable to the Democratic Party, they also point to obstacles Democrats face. Stephen Ansolabehere, a political scientist at Harvard, noted that more than two thirds of sitting presidents have been re-elected. He went on to point out that “presidential second term elections are driven strongly by the economy.” Ansolabehere maintains that if the economy is steaming along Trump will have the wind in his sails. The presidents who faltered in recent memory are Carter and Bush senior, both of whom faced weak economies. Brian Schaffner, a political scientist at Tufts, raised another issue. “There is certainly some good news for Democrats,” he wrote, but “the caveat seems to be that opinion is mostly moving for the people who were already inclined to support Democrats,” before adding: “What we don’t see is much movement among Republicans.” Schaffner, who serves along with Ansolabehere as a principal investigator at the Cooperative Congressional Election Study, also cautioned in an email against putting too much stock in the data showing that some voters who had cast ballots for Trump switched to Democratic House candidates in 2018. “The C.C.E.S. data do show that about twice as many Trump voters flipped to supporting Democrats in 2018 as Clinton voters switched to Republicans,” Schaffner wrote, “which suggests that a lot of those ‘blue wall’ states from 2016 may be leaning against Trump slightly as we head to 2020.” He warned, however, “that all of these shifts are relatively small in the aggregate, which means we aren’t necessarily too far from where we were in November, 2016.” While Trump in 2016 benefited from “a decent amount of luck” in losing the popular vote but winning the Electoral College, “it is certainly possible that it could happen again absent some larger shift in opinion.” “On paper, the election is the Democrats' to lose,” Zach Goldberg, a political scientist at Georgia State University, contended in an email. The problem for Democrats, in Goldberg’s view, is that the party and its candidate lack a coherent immigration policy or message that addresses the reasonable concerns of non-cosmopolitan voters. They’ve yet to grapple with the serious tension between supporting chain-based immigration and advocating for the enlargement of the welfare state. Moral appeals (“we’re a nation of immigrants”) will only take them so far, and often backfires. Goldberg has developed his own tolerance measure that points to a significant internal conflict among Democrats. What Goldberg found is that among whites, young liberals between the ages of 18 and 29 had the lowest levels of tolerance for racist speech, with a 1.31 score. In contrast, those with the highest tolerance scores were white liberals over the age of 50 (1.84) and young white conservatives (1.94). The 2018 Cooperative Congressional Election Study raises another question about the validity of pro-Democratic predictions based on these large-scale surveys. Alexander Agadjanian, a senior research associate in the political science department at M.I.T., pointed out that Democrats make up the largest share of those moving in a liberal direction on racial issues, while independent voters showed much smaller movement in a liberal direction. “Wow,” Agadjanian declared on Twitter, “white Democrats continue huge movement left on issues of race into 2018,” as the accompanying chart shows. Percentage of white Americans, by political affiliation, who agree with these two statements. Generations of slavery and discrimination have created conditions that make it difficult for blacks to work their way out of the lower class. Irish, Italian, Jewish and many other minorities overcame prejudice and worked their way up. Blacks should do the same without any special favors. 100% AGREE Republicans 84 82 75% Democrats 71 62 59 Independents 50% 47 45 Independents 32 25% Democrats 27 17 16 13 Republicans 2010 ’12 ’14 ’16 ’18 ’10 ’12 ’14 ’16 ’18 Generations of slavery and discrimination have created conditions that make it difficult for blacks to work their way out of the lower class. Irish, Italian, Jewish and many other minorities overcame prejudice and worked their way up. Blacks should do the same without any special favors. 100% AGREE Republicans 84 82 75% 71 62 Democrats 59 Independents 50% 47 45 Democrats 32 Independents 25% 27 17 16 13 Republicans 2010 ’12 ’14 ’16 ’18 ’10 ’12 ’14 ’16 ’18 By The New York Times | Source: analysis of Cooperative Congressional Election Study data by Alexander Agadjanian, M.I.T. Election Lab; independents include those who don’t lean toward either party. These findings suggest that there are two reasons Democratic strategists should be wary of overreliance on rising levels of racial liberalism. First, most of the shift is among voters who are already loyal Democrats and therefore it does not represent major additional support for the party. Second, the shift is as much or more a response to Trump’s racism as it is a genuine shift in opinion. An article of faith among political professionals is that incumbents are helped by a strong economy. It is, however, not clear that this will apply to Trump, whose appeal in 2016 was strongest in sections of the country suffering economic distress. Another unknown is whether support for Trump’s re-election by the members of the white working class will be diminished — and turnout constrained — by any success the administration has in ameliorating their economic suffering. Put another way, insofar as anger over economic conditions motivated high turnout and approval among a key segment of Trump voters in 2016, it may be less of a motivating force in 2020. Jed Kolko, chief economist at Indeed, an online job site, produced graphics from the G.S.S. survey suggesting that unless the economy goes south, Trump’s white base will be far less discontented in 2020 than it was in 2016. Kolko found that in 2016, 31 percent of white Republicans said they did not expect their standard of living to improve; in 2018, only 8 percent were that pessimistic. Pessimism about future living standards declined only slightly for Democrats, from 24 to 21 percent. Trump’s explosive persona, the investigations underway in the House and by state and federal prosecutors, not to mention the quality of the Democratic nominee, will all play a crucial role in 2020 — along with much we cannot yet imagine. While many political analysts believe that the presidential contest favors the Democrats, Republicans have some advantages. Most important, at this point none of the Democratic presidential candidates has developed an authoritative and credible strategy to turn out loyal constituencies in large numbers while attracting persuadable but less liberal voters torn between left and right. Furthermore, the very diversity and heterogeneity of the Democratic coalition — one of its core strengths — has attracted an extraordinary range of candidates, which in and of itself breeds a diffusion of focus — what The Atlantic’s Ron Brownstein calls tough competition for “almost every group of voters imaginable.” Along those lines, Democrats have demonstrated a spectacular talent for tripping themselves up over the years, for losing when victory is in reach. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Thomas B. Edsall has been a contributor to The Times Opinion section since 2011. His column on strategic and demographic trends in American politics appears every Wednesday. He previously covered politics for The Washington Post.   @edsall Supported by Or is that question beside the point in the Trump era? By Thomas B. Edsall Mr. Edsall contributes a weekly column from Washington, D.C. on politics, demographics and inequality. In the current election cycle, bets on moderation have few takers. Leading Democratic candidates are supporting bold progressive policy initiatives that are supported by liberal primary voters but may prove to be a tough sell to the general electorate. President Trump and his Republican allies will certainly try to use these initiatives against their Democratic rivals. They have in fact already begun to do so. A number of Democratic presidential candidates, for example, are calling for the elimination of the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency and they have declared themselves in favor of such multibillion dollar programs as Medicare for all and a Green New Deal. Growing numbers are supportive of reparations to compensate black Americans for the costs of slavery and segregation. Why are these candidates willing to buck political tradition and heighten the risk of defeat on Nov. 3, 2020? Here is one answer, from Julie Wronski, a political scientist at the University of Mississippi: Democrats contain much more heterogeneity across social groups than the more homogeneous white, Christian conservative Republican Party. To the extent the Democratic Party needs to entice and accommodate African-Americans, Latinos, environmentalists, etc. as voters, their candidates need to start embracing boutique policies for these groups that may not align with a general election “median voter” model of espousing moderate national policies. The issue of reparations illuminates the heterogeneity of the Democratic electorate. There are two surveys on reparations, a May 2016 Marist Poll and a July 2018 poll by the liberal group Data for Progress. Both produced similar results. The Marist survey found overwhelming opposition among whites in response to the question  As a way to make up for the harm caused by slavery and other forms of racial discrimination, do you think the United States should or should not pay reparations, that is, should or should not pay money to African-Americans who are descendants of slaves? Whites were opposed 81-15. Latinos were split, with 46 percent in support and 47 percent opposed. African-American voters support reparations, 58-35. The Data for Progress survey found sharp partisan divisions on the issue of reparations. Democrats supported reparations across the board: whites 37.8 to 30.5 percent; blacks 58.5 to 15.0 percent; Hispanics, 49.9 to 18.3 percent. Independents were opposed, 41.0 to 22.8 percent. Republicans were decisively in opposition, 77.1 to 8.9 percent. Among all voters, opposition to reparations was nearly twice as large as support, 47.1 to 26.4 percent. For the Democrats running for president, African-American backing is crucial both in the primaries and in the general election. Nationally, black voters in 2016 cast about one of every four ballots in Democratic primaries. In four states, African-Americans cast the majority of votes: 71 percent in Mississippi, 61 percent in South Carolina, 54 percent in Alabama and 51 percent in Georgia. Let’s look at another progressive initiative. In August 2018, AP-NORC asked voters if they support or oppose “abolishing the Immigration and Customs Enforcement, known as ICE?” 41 percent opposed abolition and 24 percent supported it. Medicare for all and the Green New Deal pose a subtler dilemma for Democratic candidates. In the abstract, voters are supportive; the problems arise when the same voters are told key details, including costs. The best example of this is Medicare for all. In March, a Kaiser Family Foundation poll found that a majority supported “a national health plan or Medicare-for-all plan,” 56-39, but support vacillates in both directions depending on how the program is portrayed. If, for example, Democrats posit that Medicare for all would eliminate health care premiums and reduce out of pocket costs, support rises to 67 percent with 30 percent opposed. Conversely, if Republicans succeed in portraying the program as leading to delays in getting medical treatment, or to the elimination of current private coverage, or to higher taxes, support collapses to the mid-20s and mid-30s, with opposition shooting up to the 60 to 70 percent range. Bold progressive stands may be risky in general elections, but recent research suggests that policy radicalism pays off in primaries. In a forthcoming paper, “Policy Over Party: Comparing the effects of candidate ideology and party on affective polarization,” Yphtach Lelkes, a political scientist at the University of Pennsylvania, reports that voters in primary elections prefer candidates who are willing to take more extreme positions. “Partisans are reacting most favorably toward ideological extremists,” Lelkes wrote in an email: In fact, moderates are punished for the policies. Extreme politicians in the vein of Mike Lee and Elizabeth Warren, are rated roughly 20-25 points higher (on a 0 to 100 scale) by party identifiers than ideologically moderate politicians in the vein of Susan Collins and Joe Manchin. These effects are even larger among ideologically extreme respondents — the kind that vote in primary elections. Lelkes conducted experiments that asked participants to rate a number of hypothetical candidates, including a moderate Democrat, an “ideologically extreme” liberal Democrat, a moderate Republican and an “ideologically extreme” conservative Republican. He found that the most ideologically committed voters — who are disproportionately represented in primaries and caucuses — strongly preferred more extreme candidates: The impact of policy cues was particularly strong among respondents who themselves held strong policy positions. If a respondent was told that candidate held extreme in-party views, ideologically extreme respondents registered feeling thermometer ratings 35.89 points warmer than ideologically neutral respondents. Lelkes’s conclusion? If we are to decrease affective polarization in the United States, we need politicians that are politically moderate. Unfortunately, voters prefer politicians of their own party that are politically extreme. This incentivizes extreme political candidates, which will only exacerbate current tensions. There are dangers for both parties is these trends, Lelkes argues, citing a 2015 study of House elections, “What Happens When Extremists Win Primaries?” by Andrew Hall, a political scientist at Stanford. Hall found that when a more extreme candidate beats a moderate in the primary the party’s general-election vote share decreases on average by approximately 9—13 percentage points, and the probability that the party wins the seat decreases by 35—54 percentage points. Gallup data shows the steady ascendance within Democratic ranks of self-identified ideological liberals and a parallel decline in the share of Democrats who say they are moderate or conservative. From 1973 to 2018, as I have noted before, the percentage of Democrats who say they are liberal has grown from 25 to 51 percent, while the share of moderates has fallen from 48 to 31 percent, and the share of conservatives has dropped from 25 to 13 percent. A 2014 Pew study showed a steady process of ideological consolidation among both Republicans and Democrats since 1994, although consolidation accelerated most rapidly on the left: The share of Democrats who are liberal on all or most value dimensions has nearly doubled from just 30 percent in 1994 to 56 percent today. The share who are consistently liberal has quadrupled from just 5 percent to 23 percent over the past 20 years. In a reflection of their importance in primaries, “consistently liberal” Democrats turned out in elections at a 70 percent rate, compared with 47 percent for “mostly liberal” Democrats and 41 percent for Democrats with “mixed views,” according to Pew data. These and other trends, according to Lee Drutman, a senior fellow at the liberal New America think tank, represent the changing the mind-set of the Democratic electorate. In an email, Drutman wrote: Two related dynamics are operative. One, Democratic voters have moved to the left in response to Trump, and are eager for policies that signal transformative change, not just incrementalism. There is no return to normalcy, because the past is now seen as more flawed. This dynamic has intensified because the most engaged Democrats, Drutman writes, have bought into an argument that Hillary Clinton lost in 2016 because she was too incrementalist, and had she gone a little bolder and promised something more exciting than her competence and experience, she might have won. The second dynamic, Drutman continued, is that in a crowded field, candidates are seeking to distinguish themselves with grass-roots energy. A very effective way of generating grass-roots energy is attaching to transformative changes these policies signal. Incrementalism and moderation doesn’t generate much excitement among the activists or in coverage from journalists who are responsible for driving candidate buzz in these early stages. In a similar analysis, John Sides, a political scientist at George Washington University, argues that On race and immigration in particular, I think Trump is pushing Democrats to the left. To be clear, Hillary Clinton was already to Obama’s left even in 2016. But I think Trump’s rhetoric and agenda has made conservative positions on race and immigration even more anathema to Democrats. Sides also pointed out that the incentives for Democratic candidates have shifted: It used to be the case that Democratic candidates had to moderate on racial issues to maintain a Democratic coalition that included both blacks and some racially conservative whites. But the Democratic coalition has changed: it is increasingly made up of not only nonwhites but whites who espouse racially liberal attitudes. In an argument elaborating on a point made by Drutman, Edward Carmines, a political scientist at Indiana University, made the case that the 2016 defeat of Hillary Clinton fostered the shift to the left: If a moderate policy agenda cannot guarantee electoral victory why downplay your leftward policy orientations in the unlikely event that it will jeopardize your electoral success? Carmines added: Trump’s success has reinforced this perspective. He won with a very right-wing policy agenda. Perhaps a left-wing set of proposals can lead Democrats to similar success. Carmines believes that “both of these premises are mistaken and could very well lead Democrats to electoral defeat when victory is within sight.” Leonie Huddy, a political scientist at Stony Brook University, argues that the liberal tilt of the Democratic candidates is, in fact, a rational political strategy. “There is real change afoot with the most recent generations,” she wrote, citing a Pew study released in January: Young Republicans are especially different from older Republicans and the Democratic Party is likely to regard such findings as an invitation to poach more liberal young Republicans. Strong partisans, however, Huddy writes, “are unlikely to defect from the party in 2020 regardless of its issue agenda,” and political independents are younger, on average, than partisans. Appealing to young voters thus makes political sense when it comes to the general 2020 presidential election. Gary Jacobson, a political scientist at the University of California-San Diego, has a somewhat different take on the changing character of the Democratic electorate and the party’s presidential candidates. The candidates, Jacobson wrote by email, “are playing to their activist base whose enthusiasm helped produce their House victory in 2018.” He warned, however, that “leaning left does carry risks; there are not enough liberals (or progressives, if you prefer) to form a majority nationally or in the Electoral College.” In contemporary presidential campaigns, according to Jacobson, the tricky thing is that in an era of extremely high party line voting, turnout becomes enormously important. Trump has proven to be a great mobilizer of Democrats, but they still have to consider how enthusiastic ordinary Democrats will be about their nominee. Trump, Jacobson noted, will try to mobilize his base by ranting about “socialism” and of course some potential Democratic candidates will be more vulnerable to that charge than others. The strategic choices facing prospective Democratic nominees are, in the view of Lynn Vavreck, a political scientist at U.C.L.A., even more complex and subtle than those described by Jacobson. Taking very liberal stands on contested issues, she wrote me, might not pose “significant risks” if you think your minimum winning coalition of voters is made up of people who either share your preferences on these things, or for whom these policies are not pivotal in their vote decision. She elaborated: There are people for whom these issues are important, but for whom there’s no position a Democrat could take that would make them decide not to vote for that Democrat. There are other people, presumably, for whom these issues are so important and their preferences so intense, that any Democrat who takes a position far from their own is a Democrat for whom they won’t vote. It depends which type of people you think are in your winning coalition as to whether you stake out positions on these things. Matthew Nisbet, a professor of communication, public policy and urban affairs at Northeastern and editor in chief of the journal Environmental Communication, addressed only the support for a Green New Deal by some Democratic candidates. His view is pessimistic. In an email, he wrote: The Green New Deal has done damage to the Democratic Party’s chances heading into the 2020 elections, while hurting efforts to build momentum on behalf of climate and energy policy options capable of passing during an era of enduring divided government. In an article in the spring edition of Issues in Science and Technology, Nisbet contends that the goal of Green New Dealers is not to broker cross-alliances between the center-right, center-left, and left wing, drawing on the best ideas that those factions can offer, but rather to build progressive power. In an interesting development, the momentum behind the more radical Democratic agenda has turned both Barack Obama and Nancy Pelosi into defenders of the party’s old guard. Pelosi, who has been trying with mixed success to tamp down the left wing of the House Democratic caucus, recently described her views on Medicare for all in an interview with The Washington Post. At first she said, “I’m agnostic. Show me how you think you can get there.” But then she cautioned: So we’ll have hearings, again, let’s see what it is. Right now it’s a $30 trillion price tag. What do people get for that in terms of care, and what do they pay for that along the way? Implicit in her comment is the belief that $30 trillion is not acceptable to the American public. Obama, speaking at a town hall in Germany earlier this month, warned of the dangers of uncompromising ideology for the progressive wing of his party: One of the things I do worry about sometimes among progressives in the United States — maybe it’s true here as well — is a certain kind of rigidity where we say, ‘Uh, I’m sorry, this is how it’s going to be,’ and then we start sometimes creating what’s called a ‘circular firing squad,’ where you start shooting at your allies because one of them has strayed from purity on the issues. And when that happens, typically the overall effort and movement weakens. For the moment, both Obama and Pelosi are having minimal influence as far as the leftward thrust of the Democratic presidential nomination goes. Three years ago, Trump threw out conventional wisdom and went on to win the nomination and the presidency. Maybe, this time around, Democrats can gamble successfully on a similar strategy and win. Or maybe not.  The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Thomas B. Edsall has been a contributor to The Times Opinion section since 2011. His column on strategic and demographic trends in American politics appears every Wednesday. He previously covered politics for The Washington Post.   @edsall 

Supported by Or is that question beside the point in the Trump era? By Thomas B. Edsall Mr. Edsall contributes a weekly column from Washington, D.C. on politics, demographics and inequality. In the current election cycle, bets on moderation have few takers. Leading Democratic candidates are supporting bold progressive policy initiatives that are supported by liberal primary voters but may prove to be a tough sell to the general electorate. President Trump and his Republican allies will certainly try to use these initiatives against their Democratic rivals. They have in fact already begun to do so. A number of Democratic presidential candidates, for example, are calling for the elimination of the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency and they have declared themselves in favor of such multibillion dollar programs as Medicare for all and a Green New Deal. Growing numbers are supportive of reparations to compensate black Americans for the costs of slavery and segregation. Why are these candidates willing to buck political tradition and heighten the risk of defeat on Nov. 3, 2020? Here is one answer, from Julie Wronski, a political scientist at the University of Mississippi: Democrats contain much more heterogeneity across social groups than the more homogeneous white, Christian conservative Republican Party. To the extent the Democratic Party needs to entice and accommodate African-Americans, Latinos, environmentalists, etc. as voters, their candidates need to start embracing boutique policies for these groups that may not align with a general election “median voter” model of espousing moderate national policies. The issue of reparations illuminates the heterogeneity of the Democratic electorate. There are two surveys on reparations, a May 2016 Marist Poll and a July 2018 poll by the liberal group Data for Progress. Both produced similar results. The Marist survey found overwhelming opposition among whites in response to the question  As a way to make up for the harm caused by slavery and other forms of racial discrimination, do you think the United States should or should not pay reparations, that is, should or should not pay money to African-Americans who are descendants of slaves? Whites were opposed 81-15. Latinos were split, with 46 percent in support and 47 percent opposed. African-American voters support reparations, 58-35. The Data for Progress survey found sharp partisan divisions on the issue of reparations. Democrats supported reparations across the board: whites 37.8 to 30.5 percent; blacks 58.5 to 15.0 percent; Hispanics, 49.9 to 18.3 percent. Independents were opposed, 41.0 to 22.8 percent. Republicans were decisively in opposition, 77.1 to 8.9 percent. Among all voters, opposition to reparations was nearly twice as large as support, 47.1 to 26.4 percent. For the Democrats running for president, African-American backing is crucial both in the primaries and in the general election. Nationally, black voters in 2016 cast about one of every four ballots in Democratic primaries. In four states, African-Americans cast the majority of votes: 71 percent in Mississippi, 61 percent in South Carolina, 54 percent in Alabama and 51 percent in Georgia. Let’s look at another progressive initiative. In August 2018, AP-NORC asked voters if they support or oppose “abolishing the Immigration and Customs Enforcement, known as ICE?” 41 percent opposed abolition and 24 percent supported it. Medicare for all and the Green New Deal pose a subtler dilemma for Democratic candidates. In the abstract, voters are supportive; the problems arise when the same voters are told key details, including costs. The best example of this is Medicare for all. In March, a Kaiser Family Foundation poll found that a majority supported “a national health plan or Medicare-for-all plan,” 56-39, but support vacillates in both directions depending on how the program is portrayed. If, for example, Democrats posit that Medicare for all would eliminate health care premiums and reduce out of pocket costs, support rises to 67 percent with 30 percent opposed. Conversely, if Republicans succeed in portraying the program as leading to delays in getting medical treatment, or to the elimination of current private coverage, or to higher taxes, support collapses to the mid-20s and mid-30s, with opposition shooting up to the 60 to 70 percent range. Bold progressive stands may be risky in general elections, but recent research suggests that policy radicalism pays off in primaries. In a forthcoming paper, “Policy Over Party: Comparing the effects of candidate ideology and party on affective polarization,” Yphtach Lelkes, a political scientist at the University of Pennsylvania, reports that voters in primary elections prefer candidates who are willing to take more extreme positions. “Partisans are reacting most favorably toward ideological extremists,” Lelkes wrote in an email: In fact, moderates are punished for the policies. Extreme politicians in the vein of Mike Lee and Elizabeth Warren, are rated roughly 20-25 points higher (on a 0 to 100 scale) by party identifiers than ideologically moderate politicians in the vein of Susan Collins and Joe Manchin. These effects are even larger among ideologically extreme respondents — the kind that vote in primary elections. Lelkes conducted experiments that asked participants to rate a number of hypothetical candidates, including a moderate Democrat, an “ideologically extreme” liberal Democrat, a moderate Republican and an “ideologically extreme” conservative Republican. He found that the most ideologically committed voters — who are disproportionately represented in primaries and caucuses — strongly preferred more extreme candidates: The impact of policy cues was particularly strong among respondents who themselves held strong policy positions. If a respondent was told that candidate held extreme in-party views, ideologically extreme respondents registered feeling thermometer ratings 35.89 points warmer than ideologically neutral respondents. Lelkes’s conclusion? If we are to decrease affective polarization in the United States, we need politicians that are politically moderate. Unfortunately, voters prefer politicians of their own party that are politically extreme. This incentivizes extreme political candidates, which will only exacerbate current tensions. There are dangers for both parties is these trends, Lelkes argues, citing a 2015 study of House elections, “What Happens When Extremists Win Primaries?” by Andrew Hall, a political scientist at Stanford. Hall found that when a more extreme candidate beats a moderate in the primary the party’s general-election vote share decreases on average by approximately 9—13 percentage points, and the probability that the party wins the seat decreases by 35—54 percentage points. Gallup data shows the steady ascendance within Democratic ranks of self-identified ideological liberals and a parallel decline in the share of Democrats who say they are moderate or conservative. From 1973 to 2018, as I have noted before, the percentage of Democrats who say they are liberal has grown from 25 to 51 percent, while the share of moderates has fallen from 48 to 31 percent, and the share of conservatives has dropped from 25 to 13 percent. A 2014 Pew study showed a steady process of ideological consolidation among both Republicans and Democrats since 1994, although consolidation accelerated most rapidly on the left: The share of Democrats who are liberal on all or most value dimensions has nearly doubled from just 30 percent in 1994 to 56 percent today. The share who are consistently liberal has quadrupled from just 5 percent to 23 percent over the past 20 years. In a reflection of their importance in primaries, “consistently liberal” Democrats turned out in elections at a 70 percent rate, compared with 47 percent for “mostly liberal” Democrats and 41 percent for Democrats with “mixed views,” according to Pew data. These and other trends, according to Lee Drutman, a senior fellow at the liberal New America think tank, represent the changing the mind-set of the Democratic electorate. In an email, Drutman wrote: Two related dynamics are operative. One, Democratic voters have moved to the left in response to Trump, and are eager for policies that signal transformative change, not just incrementalism. There is no return to normalcy, because the past is now seen as more flawed. This dynamic has intensified because the most engaged Democrats, Drutman writes, have bought into an argument that Hillary Clinton lost in 2016 because she was too incrementalist, and had she gone a little bolder and promised something more exciting than her competence and experience, she might have won. The second dynamic, Drutman continued, is that in a crowded field, candidates are seeking to distinguish themselves with grass-roots energy. A very effective way of generating grass-roots energy is attaching to transformative changes these policies signal. Incrementalism and moderation doesn’t generate much excitement among the activists or in coverage from journalists who are responsible for driving candidate buzz in these early stages. In a similar analysis, John Sides, a political scientist at George Washington University, argues that On race and immigration in particular, I think Trump is pushing Democrats to the left. To be clear, Hillary Clinton was already to Obama’s left even in 2016. But I think Trump’s rhetoric and agenda has made conservative positions on race and immigration even more anathema to Democrats. Sides also pointed out that the incentives for Democratic candidates have shifted: It used to be the case that Democratic candidates had to moderate on racial issues to maintain a Democratic coalition that included both blacks and some racially conservative whites. But the Democratic coalition has changed: it is increasingly made up of not only nonwhites but whites who espouse racially liberal attitudes. In an argument elaborating on a point made by Drutman, Edward Carmines, a political scientist at Indiana University, made the case that the 2016 defeat of Hillary Clinton fostered the shift to the left: If a moderate policy agenda cannot guarantee electoral victory why downplay your leftward policy orientations in the unlikely event that it will jeopardize your electoral success? Carmines added: Trump’s success has reinforced this perspective. He won with a very right-wing policy agenda. Perhaps a left-wing set of proposals can lead Democrats to similar success. Carmines believes that “both of these premises are mistaken and could very well lead Democrats to electoral defeat when victory is within sight.” Leonie Huddy, a political scientist at Stony Brook University, argues that the liberal tilt of the Democratic candidates is, in fact, a rational political strategy. “There is real change afoot with the most recent generations,” she wrote, citing a Pew study released in January: Young Republicans are especially different from older Republicans and the Democratic Party is likely to regard such findings as an invitation to poach more liberal young Republicans. Strong partisans, however, Huddy writes, “are unlikely to defect from the party in 2020 regardless of its issue agenda,” and political independents are younger, on average, than partisans. Appealing to young voters thus makes political sense when it comes to the general 2020 presidential election. Gary Jacobson, a political scientist at the University of California-San Diego, has a somewhat different take on the changing character of the Democratic electorate and the party’s presidential candidates. The candidates, Jacobson wrote by email, “are playing to their activist base whose enthusiasm helped produce their House victory in 2018.” He warned, however, that “leaning left does carry risks; there are not enough liberals (or progressives, if you prefer) to form a majority nationally or in the Electoral College.” In contemporary presidential campaigns, according to Jacobson, the tricky thing is that in an era of extremely high party line voting, turnout becomes enormously important. Trump has proven to be a great mobilizer of Democrats, but they still have to consider how enthusiastic ordinary Democrats will be about their nominee. Trump, Jacobson noted, will try to mobilize his base by ranting about “socialism” and of course some potential Democratic candidates will be more vulnerable to that charge than others. The strategic choices facing prospective Democratic nominees are, in the view of Lynn Vavreck, a political scientist at U.C.L.A., even more complex and subtle than those described by Jacobson. Taking very liberal stands on contested issues, she wrote me, might not pose “significant risks” if you think your minimum winning coalition of voters is made up of people who either share your preferences on these things, or for whom these policies are not pivotal in their vote decision. She elaborated: There are people for whom these issues are important, but for whom there’s no position a Democrat could take that would make them decide not to vote for that Democrat. There are other people, presumably, for whom these issues are so important and their preferences so intense, that any Democrat who takes a position far from their own is a Democrat for whom they won’t vote. It depends which type of people you think are in your winning coalition as to whether you stake out positions on these things. Matthew Nisbet, a professor of communication, public policy and urban affairs at Northeastern and editor in chief of the journal Environmental Communication, addressed only the support for a Green New Deal by some Democratic candidates. His view is pessimistic. In an email, he wrote: The Green New Deal has done damage to the Democratic Party’s chances heading into the 2020 elections, while hurting efforts to build momentum on behalf of climate and energy policy options capable of passing during an era of enduring divided government. In an article in the spring edition of Issues in Science and Technology, Nisbet contends that the goal of Green New Dealers is not to broker cross-alliances between the center-right, center-left, and left wing, drawing on the best ideas that those factions can offer, but rather to build progressive power. In an interesting development, the momentum behind the more radical Democratic agenda has turned both Barack Obama and Nancy Pelosi into defenders of the party’s old guard. Pelosi, who has been trying with mixed success to tamp down the left wing of the House Democratic caucus, recently described her views on Medicare for all in an interview with The Washington Post. At first she said, “I’m agnostic. Show me how you think you can get there.” But then she cautioned: So we’ll have hearings, again, let’s see what it is. Right now it’s a $30 trillion price tag. What do people get for that in terms of care, and what do they pay for that along the way? Implicit in her comment is the belief that $30 trillion is not acceptable to the American public. Obama, speaking at a town hall in Germany earlier this month, warned of the dangers of uncompromising ideology for the progressive wing of his party: One of the things I do worry about sometimes among progressives in the United States — maybe it’s true here as well — is a certain kind of rigidity where we say, ‘Uh, I’m sorry, this is how it’s going to be,’ and then we start sometimes creating what’s called a ‘circular firing squad,’ where you start shooting at your allies because one of them has strayed from purity on the issues. And when that happens, typically the overall effort and movement weakens. For the moment, both Obama and Pelosi are having minimal influence as far as the leftward thrust of the Democratic presidential nomination goes. Three years ago, Trump threw out conventional wisdom and went on to win the nomination and the presidency. Maybe, this time around, Democrats can gamble successfully on a similar strategy and win. Or maybe not.  The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Thomas B. Edsall has been a contributor to The Times Opinion section since 2011. His column on strategic and demographic trends in American politics appears every Wednesday. He previously covered politics for The Washington Post.   @edsall Supported by It’s the question that may decide the 2020 elections — and the future of the Democratic Party. By Thomas B. Edsall Mr. Edsall contributes a weekly column from Washington, D.C. on politics, demographics and inequality. The future success of the Democratic Party depends on the crucial — but unsettled — allegiance of the nation’s growing Hispanic electorate. Fernand Amandi, a Democratic pollster and podcast host based in Miami, addressed the party’s Latino quandary in a December interview with The Associated Press: The question is not are Democrats winning the Hispanic vote — it’s why aren’t Democrats winning the Hispanic vote 80-20 or 90-10 the way they are winning black voters? In an interview earlier this week, Amandi told me that Democrats “want and hope for this magical osmosis to happen but that’s not how politics works.” In the 2018 midterms, Democrats showed gains among Hispanic voters in most states, compared with 2014. Party operatives are concerned, however, about the slow rate of growth of these improved Democratic margins. They are equally worried about turnout — at a time when many thought that President Trump’s rhetoric and policies would produce impressive gains among Latino voters for the Democratic Party. Take turnout. Hispanics are one of the fastest growing ethnic constituencies in the United States, but their level of political participation is not keeping pace with their overall population numbers. As the accompanying Pew chart demonstrates, the number of Hispanic voters in midterm elections has grown steadily, from 2.9 million in 1986 to 6.8 million in 2014. At the same time, however, turnout — measured as a percentage of total eligible adult citizens 18 and over — has experienced a relative decline. 30 MILLION 25.1 Eligible Hispanic voters 20 Hispanic voters in midterm elections 10 7.5 6.8 2.9 1986 ’90 ’94 ’98 ’02 ’06 ’10 ’14 30 MILLION 25.1 Eligible Hispanic voters 20 Hispanic voters in midterm elections 10 7.5 6.8 2.9 1986 ’90 ’94 ’98 ’02 ’06 ’10 ’14 By The New York Times | Source: Pew Research Center In 1986, the Latino turnout rate was 38.7 percent; in 2014, that rate fell to 27.1 percent. If the 2014 turnout rate had been as high as it was in 1986, Hispanics would have cast 9.7 million ballots instead of 6.8 million. (Complete numbers for 2018 are still being compiled.) In a preliminary analysis of Hispanic voter turnout last year, Catalist, a Democratic firm that builds voter lists, found significant increases in turnout of three to five percent, comparing 2018 with the 2014 midterms. Texas, Nevada and California saw five percent increases, Florida four percent, New Mexico and New York three percent. Turnout rates and levels of support are two key (but quite different) political measures. While Latinos had a turnout rate of 27.1 percent in 2014, their support for Democratic House candidates that year was 62 percent. Their support for Republican House candidates was 36 percent, according to exit polls. While Democratic support among Hispanics has improved over the past decade, from the low 60s to the high 60s, there is evidence suggesting that those gains cannot be relied upon in future elections. In the midterm elections, Florida became the prime example of such unreliability, as Republicans demonstrated they could buck state and national trends to make substantial gains among Hispanics. Republicans won two close statewide races in Florida in 2018, one for senate and one for governor — despite the gradual erosion of Republican support among Cuban-Americans in the state and despite the continuing influx of pro-Democratic Puerto Ricans in the wake of Hurricane Maria in 2017. Simon Rosenberg, president of NDN, formerly the New Democrat Network, a pro-Democratic think tank, wrote, “In All Important Florida, Democrats Lose Ground With Hispanic Voters” a month after the 2018 election: In an election where Democrats had one of their best years ever with Hispanic voters across the country, Florida Democrats saw their Hispanic numbers decline. Nationally, Democrats went from 62-36 (26 pts) in 2014 to 69-29 (40 pts) this election. In Florida, Democrats went from 58-38 (20 pts) in 2014 to 54-44 (10 pts) this year. As Rosenberg pointed out, this shift occurred despite the fact that Trump did everything possible to alienate Latinos, along with undercutting Rick Scott and Ron DeSantis, the winning Republican candidates for Senate and governor. Rosenberg noted that Trump had relentlessly attacked immigrants and Hispanics in particular. He grossly mismanaged the aftermath of Hurricane Maria, sending hundreds of thousands of Puerto Ricans fleeing to Central Florida. He revoked the temporary status of many immigrants in Florida. Given all this, one would have imagined the environment for Democrats to make gains among Hispanics was present in Florida this year, gains which were made elsewhere. Yet we fell back. By all accounts, Scott and DeSantis campaigned almost daily in Hispanic precincts, while their Democratic opponents, Bill Nelson and Andrew Gillum, took the Hispanic vote for granted. “We had no infrastructure,” Christian Ulvert, Gillum’s director for Spanish-language media, told Politico: And honestly, Democrats have been playing catch-up on Hispanic outreach for two decades, because Republicans have invested in it. You can’t close that gap overnight. Politico described Nelson’s bid for a fourth term as “a uniquely lazy campaign that made laughably ineffectual attempts to engage with Hispanics.” Melissa Michelson, a political scientist at Menlo College in California and president of the Latino caucus of the American Political Science Association, described in an email the changing political orientation of Florida’s Cuban-Americans. In a 1989-90 survey, Michelson wrote, 68.8 percent of Cuban-Americans identified with Republicans. Since then there have been significant changes: Over the years, she continued, Pew has documented a steady decline in Cuban-Americans’ Republican identification, from 64 percent in 2002 to 56 percent in 2006 to 47 percent in 2013. Despite the decline in Republican support among Cuban-Americans, Michelson emphasized that There has always been a contingent of Latinos who identify as Republican and are more interested in Republican/conservative (or anti-Communist) policies than in immigration issues or racism. Recall that 40 percent of Latinos voted for Bush in 2004. Reagan also enjoyed considerable Latino support. I think many Democrats are continually perplexed by this — that there could be Latino voters who are willing to support a president (or candidate) like Trump whose rhetoric and policies are so clearly anti-Latino and racist. While Scott and DeSantis revived Cuban-American willingness to support Republicans, two of the three Florida House seats that had been represented by Cuban-American Republicans switched parties in 2018. Revealing a contrast to Florida, Matt A. Barreto, a political scientist at U.C.L.A. and a co-founder of Latino Decisions, analyzed turnout and voting patterns in Texas. In a March report, Barreto described a huge pro-Democratic turnout increase there, ranging from 105 to 125 percent in eight counties where Hispanics make up more than 90 percent of the population. There were significant gains in counties with white majorities of 83 to 91 percent too, but these upturns were smaller, in the 35 to 55 percent range. The ability of two conservative Florida Republicans to make such inroads simply by campaigning diligently suggests that the Democratic hold on Latinos is less firm than many believed. So where do Latinos stand politically? The NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll surveyed 918 Hispanics during 2018 and found that Trump’s job approval rating was a relatively dismal 30 percent, 21 points below his 51 percent favorability rating among whites, but 18 points higher than his 12 percent approval rate among African-Americans. The data, provided to The Times by Public Opinion Strategies, one of the two firms that conducted the survey, found that Trump’s approval among Hispanics was highest among men and among the affluent — 40 percent for both — and among men without college degrees, at 39 percent. A 2018 Pew report, “Key takeaways about Latino voters in the 2018 midterm elections,” found that Hispanics cast a decisive majority of votes for Democratic congressional candidates (69-29), a smaller percentage of votes, however, than African-Americans (90-9) and Asian-Americans (77-23). Whites backed Republicans, 54 to 44. In a state-by-state breakdown, Pew found that in the Texas Senate race, Latinos backed Democrat Beto O’Rourke over Ted Cruz by nearly two to one, 64-35, while Greg Abbott, the incumbent Republican governor, lost the Hispanic vote to Democratic challenger Lupe Valdez, 53-42. In Florida, Democrats Gillum and Nelson won the Hispanic vote by nearly equal percentages (54-44 and 54-45) — but in both cases by margins that were inadequate to produce overall victory. The Democratic winner in the Nevada Senate race, Jacky Rosen, did far better among Hispanics, who backed her over Dean Heller, the Republican incumbent, 67-30. While many Democrats expected Trump’s anti-immigrant rhetoric and policies, especially the family separation debacle, to produce a decisive shift to the left among Hispanics, that has not proved to be the case. An October 2018 Pew report found that almost half of Latinos (48 percent) believe there is about the right amount of immigrants living in the U.S., while a quarter say there are too many immigrants and 14 percent say there are too few.  Three quarters of Hispanics opposed Trump’s proposal to build a wall along the Mexican border, while one in five favors construction. In an email, Barreto, of Latino Decisions, argued that Democratic support among Hispanics remains solid: I do not see anything since November 2018 to suggest Dems are losing any support at all. Trump continues on the same path of bashing immigrants and bashing Latinos without evidence and this only further decreases his favorability among Latinos. Asked about the declining share of eligible Hispanics turning out on Election Day, Barreto countered that the growing numbers of eligible Latinos are almost entirely driven by U.S. born young Latinos turning 18 and entering the eligible voter pool. In a common pattern, Barreto pointed out, “young people have very low rates of voter registration and voter turnout — especially in midterm elections.” Because of that, Barreto said that in order to get a better picture, the data should be age-adjusted so that turnout levels of older voters of different races and ethnicities could be compared. Barreto is also sharply critical of most polling of Hispanics and of exit polls in particular, arguing that the lack of Spanish-speaking interviewers results in an undercount of Hispanic turnout as well as inaccurate estimates of Republican and Democratic votes. In addition, candidates and political parties have to make a much stronger case to young Hispanics that their vote matters, according to Barreto: Otherwise, you will only get incremental growth each year — which still puts Latinos as a larger and larger share of the electorate, but perhaps not as large as we could be. Rosenberg, of NDN, argues that the Democratic Party did not start targeting the Hispanic electorate “with modern campaign tactics and communications” until the 2006-8 period. Those efforts immediately bore fruit, Rosenberg contended in an email: Remember that in 2004 Bush won Arizona, Colorado, New Mexico and Nevada. Now Colorado and New Mexico are no longer really competitive at the presidential level, Nevada is slipping away from the Republicans, and Democrats elected a Senator in 2018 in Arizona. Texas, according to Rosenberg, “is about to hit a tipping point,” in large part because of the Hispanic vote. What conclusions and what questions remain in the wake of these complex and sometimes conflicting trends in the Hispanic electorate? First and foremost, Latinos remain a decisively Democratic constituency, with important caveats. Brian Schaffner, a political scientist at Tufts and co-principal researcher at the Cooperative Congressional Election Study, wrote in an email that nationally, Hispanic support for Democrats has been relatively consistent. Schaffner provided the accompanying graph, which shows the level of voting for Democrats in House contests in the six elections from 2008 to 2018 for whites, blacks, Asian-Americans and Hispanics. The Hispanic Democratic vote shows a significant 8.6 point increase from 2014 to 2016 and a 13.6-point increase from 2014 to 2018 — call it the Trump jump — although the increase in the percentage of Asian-Americans voting for Democrats was even larger at 20.2 points. Of votes for the two major-party candidates in House races, the share that went to Democrats. Change since 2008 (percentage points) 100% 94 Black 93 –1 72 +5 75% 70 +9 67 Asian 61 Hispanic 47 50% 46 –1 White 25% 2008 ’10 ’12 ’14 ’16 ’18 100% Black 94 93 –1 Change since 2008 (percentage points) 72 +5 75% 70 +9 67 Asian 61 Hispanic 50% 47 46 –1 White 25% 2008 ’10 ’12 ’14 ’16 ’18 By The New York Times | Source: analysis of Cooperative Congressional Election Study by Brian Schaffner, Tufts University Latinos’ partisan loyalties are much less hard and fast than, say, those of either African-Americans or white evangelicals. The results in Florida demonstrate that Democrats risk defeat if they fail to campaign heavily in Hispanic communities, and Republicans stand to gain at the margins if they are prepared to invest time, money and energy. The major question mark going into 2020, assuming Trump is the Republican nominee, is whether Hispanic opposition to his presidency will prevent a recurrence of the Florida 2018 phenomenon. Will Trump’s presence so nationalize the election that down-ballot Republicans will face a brick wall when they try to make modest inroads among Hispanics? To date, Trump has shown every intention of turning the election into a referendum on himself, and all the baggage he carries, with no regard for the political survival of fellow Republicans.  If anything, he appears determined to drive up hostility to him among Latinos. For the past two days, for example, the president has ranted on Twitter, attacking Puerto Rico and its political leaders. On Monday, he told his Twitter followers: Puerto Rico got far more money than Texas & Florida combined, yet their government can’t do anything right, the place is a mess — nothing works. On Tuesday, he was still at it: All their local politicians do is complain & ask for more money. The pols are grossly incompetent, spend the money foolishly or corruptly, & only take from USA. Behaving this way, Trump may succeed in driving up support among “his people,” as he likes to call his voters. But if he keeps it up, he will be doing both his Democratic opponent and the Democratic Party as a whole a huge favor as far as the Latino vote goes. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Thomas B. Edsall has been a contributor to The Times Opinion section since 2011. His column on strategic and demographic trends in American politics appears every Wednesday. He previously covered politics for The Washington Post.   @edsall 

Supported by It’s the question that may decide the 2020 elections — and the future of the Democratic Party. By Thomas B. Edsall Mr. Edsall contributes a weekly column from Washington, D.C. on politics, demographics and inequality. The future success of the Democratic Party depends on the crucial — but unsettled — allegiance of the nation’s growing Hispanic electorate. Fernand Amandi, a Democratic pollster and podcast host based in Miami, addressed the party’s Latino quandary in a December interview with The Associated Press: The question is not are Democrats winning the Hispanic vote — it’s why aren’t Democrats winning the Hispanic vote 80-20 or 90-10 the way they are winning black voters? In an interview earlier this week, Amandi told me that Democrats “want and hope for this magical osmosis to happen but that’s not how politics works.” In the 2018 midterms, Democrats showed gains among Hispanic voters in most states, compared with 2014. Party operatives are concerned, however, about the slow rate of growth of these improved Democratic margins. They are equally worried about turnout — at a time when many thought that President Trump’s rhetoric and policies would produce impressive gains among Latino voters for the Democratic Party. Take turnout. Hispanics are one of the fastest growing ethnic constituencies in the United States, but their level of political participation is not keeping pace with their overall population numbers. As the accompanying Pew chart demonstrates, the number of Hispanic voters in midterm elections has grown steadily, from 2.9 million in 1986 to 6.8 million in 2014. At the same time, however, turnout — measured as a percentage of total eligible adult citizens 18 and over — has experienced a relative decline. 30 MILLION 25.1 Eligible Hispanic voters 20 Hispanic voters in midterm elections 10 7.5 6.8 2.9 1986 ’90 ’94 ’98 ’02 ’06 ’10 ’14 30 MILLION 25.1 Eligible Hispanic voters 20 Hispanic voters in midterm elections 10 7.5 6.8 2.9 1986 ’90 ’94 ’98 ’02 ’06 ’10 ’14 By The New York Times | Source: Pew Research Center In 1986, the Latino turnout rate was 38.7 percent; in 2014, that rate fell to 27.1 percent. If the 2014 turnout rate had been as high as it was in 1986, Hispanics would have cast 9.7 million ballots instead of 6.8 million. (Complete numbers for 2018 are still being compiled.) In a preliminary analysis of Hispanic voter turnout last year, Catalist, a Democratic firm that builds voter lists, found significant increases in turnout of three to five percent, comparing 2018 with the 2014 midterms. Texas, Nevada and California saw five percent increases, Florida four percent, New Mexico and New York three percent. Turnout rates and levels of support are two key (but quite different) political measures. While Latinos had a turnout rate of 27.1 percent in 2014, their support for Democratic House candidates that year was 62 percent. Their support for Republican House candidates was 36 percent, according to exit polls. While Democratic support among Hispanics has improved over the past decade, from the low 60s to the high 60s, there is evidence suggesting that those gains cannot be relied upon in future elections. In the midterm elections, Florida became the prime example of such unreliability, as Republicans demonstrated they could buck state and national trends to make substantial gains among Hispanics. Republicans won two close statewide races in Florida in 2018, one for senate and one for governor — despite the gradual erosion of Republican support among Cuban-Americans in the state and despite the continuing influx of pro-Democratic Puerto Ricans in the wake of Hurricane Maria in 2017. Simon Rosenberg, president of NDN, formerly the New Democrat Network, a pro-Democratic think tank, wrote, “In All Important Florida, Democrats Lose Ground With Hispanic Voters” a month after the 2018 election: In an election where Democrats had one of their best years ever with Hispanic voters across the country, Florida Democrats saw their Hispanic numbers decline. Nationally, Democrats went from 62-36 (26 pts) in 2014 to 69-29 (40 pts) this election. In Florida, Democrats went from 58-38 (20 pts) in 2014 to 54-44 (10 pts) this year. As Rosenberg pointed out, this shift occurred despite the fact that Trump did everything possible to alienate Latinos, along with undercutting Rick Scott and Ron DeSantis, the winning Republican candidates for Senate and governor. Rosenberg noted that Trump had relentlessly attacked immigrants and Hispanics in particular. He grossly mismanaged the aftermath of Hurricane Maria, sending hundreds of thousands of Puerto Ricans fleeing to Central Florida. He revoked the temporary status of many immigrants in Florida. Given all this, one would have imagined the environment for Democrats to make gains among Hispanics was present in Florida this year, gains which were made elsewhere. Yet we fell back. By all accounts, Scott and DeSantis campaigned almost daily in Hispanic precincts, while their Democratic opponents, Bill Nelson and Andrew Gillum, took the Hispanic vote for granted. “We had no infrastructure,” Christian Ulvert, Gillum’s director for Spanish-language media, told Politico: And honestly, Democrats have been playing catch-up on Hispanic outreach for two decades, because Republicans have invested in it. You can’t close that gap overnight. Politico described Nelson’s bid for a fourth term as “a uniquely lazy campaign that made laughably ineffectual attempts to engage with Hispanics.” Melissa Michelson, a political scientist at Menlo College in California and president of the Latino caucus of the American Political Science Association, described in an email the changing political orientation of Florida’s Cuban-Americans. In a 1989-90 survey, Michelson wrote, 68.8 percent of Cuban-Americans identified with Republicans. Since then there have been significant changes: Over the years, she continued, Pew has documented a steady decline in Cuban-Americans’ Republican identification, from 64 percent in 2002 to 56 percent in 2006 to 47 percent in 2013. Despite the decline in Republican support among Cuban-Americans, Michelson emphasized that There has always been a contingent of Latinos who identify as Republican and are more interested in Republican/conservative (or anti-Communist) policies than in immigration issues or racism. Recall that 40 percent of Latinos voted for Bush in 2004. Reagan also enjoyed considerable Latino support. I think many Democrats are continually perplexed by this — that there could be Latino voters who are willing to support a president (or candidate) like Trump whose rhetoric and policies are so clearly anti-Latino and racist. While Scott and DeSantis revived Cuban-American willingness to support Republicans, two of the three Florida House seats that had been represented by Cuban-American Republicans switched parties in 2018. Revealing a contrast to Florida, Matt A. Barreto, a political scientist at U.C.L.A. and a co-founder of Latino Decisions, analyzed turnout and voting patterns in Texas. In a March report, Barreto described a huge pro-Democratic turnout increase there, ranging from 105 to 125 percent in eight counties where Hispanics make up more than 90 percent of the population. There were significant gains in counties with white majorities of 83 to 91 percent too, but these upturns were smaller, in the 35 to 55 percent range. The ability of two conservative Florida Republicans to make such inroads simply by campaigning diligently suggests that the Democratic hold on Latinos is less firm than many believed. So where do Latinos stand politically? The NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll surveyed 918 Hispanics during 2018 and found that Trump’s job approval rating was a relatively dismal 30 percent, 21 points below his 51 percent favorability rating among whites, but 18 points higher than his 12 percent approval rate among African-Americans. The data, provided to The Times by Public Opinion Strategies, one of the two firms that conducted the survey, found that Trump’s approval among Hispanics was highest among men and among the affluent — 40 percent for both — and among men without college degrees, at 39 percent. A 2018 Pew report, “Key takeaways about Latino voters in the 2018 midterm elections,” found that Hispanics cast a decisive majority of votes for Democratic congressional candidates (69-29), a smaller percentage of votes, however, than African-Americans (90-9) and Asian-Americans (77-23). Whites backed Republicans, 54 to 44. In a state-by-state breakdown, Pew found that in the Texas Senate race, Latinos backed Democrat Beto O’Rourke over Ted Cruz by nearly two to one, 64-35, while Greg Abbott, the incumbent Republican governor, lost the Hispanic vote to Democratic challenger Lupe Valdez, 53-42. In Florida, Democrats Gillum and Nelson won the Hispanic vote by nearly equal percentages (54-44 and 54-45) — but in both cases by margins that were inadequate to produce overall victory. The Democratic winner in the Nevada Senate race, Jacky Rosen, did far better among Hispanics, who backed her over Dean Heller, the Republican incumbent, 67-30. While many Democrats expected Trump’s anti-immigrant rhetoric and policies, especially the family separation debacle, to produce a decisive shift to the left among Hispanics, that has not proved to be the case. An October 2018 Pew report found that almost half of Latinos (48 percent) believe there is about the right amount of immigrants living in the U.S., while a quarter say there are too many immigrants and 14 percent say there are too few.  Three quarters of Hispanics opposed Trump’s proposal to build a wall along the Mexican border, while one in five favors construction. In an email, Barreto, of Latino Decisions, argued that Democratic support among Hispanics remains solid: I do not see anything since November 2018 to suggest Dems are losing any support at all. Trump continues on the same path of bashing immigrants and bashing Latinos without evidence and this only further decreases his favorability among Latinos. Asked about the declining share of eligible Hispanics turning out on Election Day, Barreto countered that the growing numbers of eligible Latinos are almost entirely driven by U.S. born young Latinos turning 18 and entering the eligible voter pool. In a common pattern, Barreto pointed out, “young people have very low rates of voter registration and voter turnout — especially in midterm elections.” Because of that, Barreto said that in order to get a better picture, the data should be age-adjusted so that turnout levels of older voters of different races and ethnicities could be compared. Barreto is also sharply critical of most polling of Hispanics and of exit polls in particular, arguing that the lack of Spanish-speaking interviewers results in an undercount of Hispanic turnout as well as inaccurate estimates of Republican and Democratic votes. In addition, candidates and political parties have to make a much stronger case to young Hispanics that their vote matters, according to Barreto: Otherwise, you will only get incremental growth each year — which still puts Latinos as a larger and larger share of the electorate, but perhaps not as large as we could be. Rosenberg, of NDN, argues that the Democratic Party did not start targeting the Hispanic electorate “with modern campaign tactics and communications” until the 2006-8 period. Those efforts immediately bore fruit, Rosenberg contended in an email: Remember that in 2004 Bush won Arizona, Colorado, New Mexico and Nevada. Now Colorado and New Mexico are no longer really competitive at the presidential level, Nevada is slipping away from the Republicans, and Democrats elected a Senator in 2018 in Arizona. Texas, according to Rosenberg, “is about to hit a tipping point,” in large part because of the Hispanic vote. What conclusions and what questions remain in the wake of these complex and sometimes conflicting trends in the Hispanic electorate? First and foremost, Latinos remain a decisively Democratic constituency, with important caveats. Brian Schaffner, a political scientist at Tufts and co-principal researcher at the Cooperative Congressional Election Study, wrote in an email that nationally, Hispanic support for Democrats has been relatively consistent. Schaffner provided the accompanying graph, which shows the level of voting for Democrats in House contests in the six elections from 2008 to 2018 for whites, blacks, Asian-Americans and Hispanics. The Hispanic Democratic vote shows a significant 8.6 point increase from 2014 to 2016 and a 13.6-point increase from 2014 to 2018 — call it the Trump jump — although the increase in the percentage of Asian-Americans voting for Democrats was even larger at 20.2 points. Of votes for the two major-party candidates in House races, the share that went to Democrats. Change since 2008 (percentage points) 100% 94 Black 93 –1 72 +5 75% 70 +9 67 Asian 61 Hispanic 47 50% 46 –1 White 25% 2008 ’10 ’12 ’14 ’16 ’18 100% Black 94 93 –1 Change since 2008 (percentage points) 72 +5 75% 70 +9 67 Asian 61 Hispanic 50% 47 46 –1 White 25% 2008 ’10 ’12 ’14 ’16 ’18 By The New York Times | Source: analysis of Cooperative Congressional Election Study by Brian Schaffner, Tufts University Latinos’ partisan loyalties are much less hard and fast than, say, those of either African-Americans or white evangelicals. The results in Florida demonstrate that Democrats risk defeat if they fail to campaign heavily in Hispanic communities, and Republicans stand to gain at the margins if they are prepared to invest time, money and energy. The major question mark going into 2020, assuming Trump is the Republican nominee, is whether Hispanic opposition to his presidency will prevent a recurrence of the Florida 2018 phenomenon. Will Trump’s presence so nationalize the election that down-ballot Republicans will face a brick wall when they try to make modest inroads among Hispanics? To date, Trump has shown every intention of turning the election into a referendum on himself, and all the baggage he carries, with no regard for the political survival of fellow Republicans.  If anything, he appears determined to drive up hostility to him among Latinos. For the past two days, for example, the president has ranted on Twitter, attacking Puerto Rico and its political leaders. On Monday, he told his Twitter followers: Puerto Rico got far more money than Texas & Florida combined, yet their government can’t do anything right, the place is a mess — nothing works. On Tuesday, he was still at it: All their local politicians do is complain & ask for more money. The pols are grossly incompetent, spend the money foolishly or corruptly, & only take from USA. Behaving this way, Trump may succeed in driving up support among “his people,” as he likes to call his voters. But if he keeps it up, he will be doing both his Democratic opponent and the Democratic Party as a whole a huge favor as far as the Latino vote goes. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Thomas B. Edsall has been a contributor to The Times Opinion section since 2011. His column on strategic and demographic trends in American politics appears every Wednesday. He previously covered politics for The Washington Post.   @edsall Supported by letters Two readers disagree about supporting Bernie Sanders for president but agree that an anti-Sanders campaign is destructive. To the Editor: Re “Sanders, Surging, Has Democrats Jittery (Again)” (front page, April 17): I am a Democratic activist who is not supporting Bernie Sanders to be our nominee. In fact, I don’t think he should be running; he should instead be supporting the next generation of progressive candidates supporting his agenda. However, the Democratic Party cannot afford a concentrated Stop Bernie movement by the party establishment. This will only further increase resentment among Sanders supporters and widen the split between them and the anti-Sanders forces, making strong unity around the eventual nominee less likely. Bernie must also take steps not to open old wounds from the 2016 nomination fight so his supporters will enthusiastically support the 2020 nominee if he does not win. The large field of Democratic candidates will be winnowed during the nomination process. A positive campaign among these hopefuls can strengthen the eventual nominee. A campaign that opens schisms in the party does the opposite. To beat President Trump, Democrats need a strong candidate and a united party.  Laurence G. HirschSouth Orange, N.J.  To the Editor: The wave of Democratic jitters as Bernie Sanders surges is not surprising. The current Democratic establishment wants to maintain control of the party. How far are they willing to go? They speak darkly of the danger of moderates supporting an independent who could enable President Trump to eke out a victory if Mr. Sanders is the Democratic nominee. Is a statement like that simply a worry, or a prediction? Or possibly an actual threat? Are these rich liberals so concerned about keeping control of the party that they will risk losing if Mr. Sanders gets the nomination? Mr. Sanders’s platform is not revolutionary. Universal medical coverage has majority support, according to polls. So does raising taxes on the rich. On issues of infrastructure, slowing global warming and the environment, Mr. Sanders is in step with the majority. Other Democrats, like Senator Elizabeth Warren, are campaigning on very similar platforms. If the Democratic establishment tries to force a so-called moderate on the party, it would be supporting someone who does not represent either most Democrats or even most voters. Peter B. DenisonSomerset, Mass.

Supported by letters Two readers disagree about supporting Bernie Sanders for president but agree that an anti-Sanders campaign is destructive. To the Editor: Re “Sanders, Surging, Has Democrats Jittery (Again)” (front page, April 17): I am a Democratic activist who is not supporting Bernie Sanders to be our nominee. In fact, I don’t think he should be running; he should instead be supporting the next generation of progressive candidates supporting his agenda. However, the Democratic Party cannot afford a concentrated Stop Bernie movement by the party establishment. This will only further increase resentment among Sanders supporters and widen the split between them and the anti-Sanders forces, making strong unity around the eventual nominee less likely. Bernie must also take steps not to open old wounds from the 2016 nomination fight so his supporters will enthusiastically support the 2020 nominee if he does not win. The large field of Democratic candidates will be winnowed during the nomination process. A positive campaign among these hopefuls can strengthen the eventual nominee. A campaign that opens schisms in the party does the opposite. To beat President Trump, Democrats need a strong candidate and a united party.  Laurence G. HirschSouth Orange, N.J.  To the Editor: The wave of Democratic jitters as Bernie Sanders surges is not surprising. The current Democratic establishment wants to maintain control of the party. How far are they willing to go? They speak darkly of the danger of moderates supporting an independent who could enable President Trump to eke out a victory if Mr. Sanders is the Democratic nominee. Is a statement like that simply a worry, or a prediction? Or possibly an actual threat? Are these rich liberals so concerned about keeping control of the party that they will risk losing if Mr. Sanders gets the nomination? Mr. Sanders’s platform is not revolutionary. Universal medical coverage has majority support, according to polls. So does raising taxes on the rich. On issues of infrastructure, slowing global warming and the environment, Mr. Sanders is in step with the majority. Other Democrats, like Senator Elizabeth Warren, are campaigning on very similar platforms. If the Democratic establishment tries to force a so-called moderate on the party, it would be supporting someone who does not represent either most Democrats or even most voters. Peter B. DenisonSomerset, Mass.Supported by By Emily Cochrane LEESBURG, Va. — House Democrats insisted on Thursday that they remained optimistic about potential compromises with the Trump administration on infrastructure, prescription drugs prices and immigration, even as they criticized the president’s prospective Federal Reserve Board picks and his recent comments about migrants and asylum seekers. The balance that Speaker Nancy Pelosi, her deputies and new Democratic members sought to strike during an annual member retreat underscored the contradictions of their approach to divided government. Even as they have railed against the president in pushing to expand their agenda and diverse majority, the Democrats still have clung to the possibility of compromise with President Trump and Senate Republicans to deliver some of their campaign promises. Much of the agenda that Democrats worked to highlight at the three-day conference at the Lansdowne Resort and Spa in suburban Virginia — “putting check marks next to the to-do list,” as Representative Veronica Escobar, Democrat of Texas, put it — has yet to reach the Senate floor. And it is not likely to, with Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader, in control. The first 100 days of the Democrats’ majority in the House included a record-long government shutdown and involved partisan squabbling, including over tougher administration oversight and the scope of the party’s priorities. The retreat also offered a chance for lawmakers to regroup after multiple internal fissures that played out publicly, including a vote delay on a two-year budget deal and efforts by the House Democratic campaign wing to shut down party challengers. “This is bigger than us now,” said Representative Jahana Hayes, Democrat of Connecticut. “We’re a country built on compromise.” Several sessions at the conference aimed to address what lawmakers described as “kitchen table issues” — maintaining economic growth, lowering drug prices and working toward what Ms. Pelosi said could be at least a $1 trillion infrastructure package. “I’m not giving up on the president,” Ms. Pelosi said in reference to immigration overhaul, even as she bashed Mr. Trump’s recent comments that the country was “full” and could not accept any more migrants. But senior Democrats did not hold back from criticizing the president or the recent upheaval in his administration. Ms. Pelosi and Representative Hakeem Jeffries of New York, the No. 5 Democrat in the House, excoriated the two men Mr. Trump has singled out as potential nominees to the Fed: Stephen Moore, a conservative economic adviser to Mr. Trump, and Herman Cain, a former pizza executive whose 2012 bid for president ended over accusations of sexual misconduct. (Neither man has been formally nominated.) “With stiff competition, these two appointments to the Fed are the worst, ill-suited candidates the president could have come up with,” Ms. Pelosi told reporters at the retreat. Mr. Jeffries called the potential Fed picks an embarrassment. “It’s not clear to me if that’s reality or a ‘Saturday Night Live’ skit,” he said. By contrast, Ms. Pelosi praised Mr. Trump’s handpicked Fed chairman, Jerome H. Powell, and his independence in the face of repeated criticism from the president. He spoke to House Democrats later Thursday in a closed-door session on economic issues, a speech Ms. Pelosi said was not intended to be political. In the session, Mr. Powell emphasized that his role is apolitical and emphasized the Fed’s independence from political pressure, according to two people in the room. Asked by Representative Carolyn B. Maloney, Democrat of New York, if he believed either prospective nominee to the board would be independent, Mr. Powell declined to comment. Democrats at the retreat — which offered yoga sessions and a cooking class for lawmakers and their families — largely insisted their ideological divisions remained a strength. In one instance, Representative Jim Himes, Democrat of Connecticut, noted that moderates were responsible for the new majority, despite the emergence of a few progressive “rock stars.” But Representative Ben Ray Luján, Democrat of New Mexico and the deputy speaker, shrugged off any disagreements. “Make no mistake,” he said, “we get together to solve big problems.” Ms. Pelosi, who entered the dinner on Wednesday night with her caucus and the celebrity couple John Legend and Chrissy Teigen to “We Are Family,” rebuked news coverage that highlighted divisions in the wings of her new majority, telling reporters the next day, “You guys have it all wrong.” On Wednesday, Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the majority leader, had argued that the decision against voting on a budget caps deal this week was not a blow to the Democratic agenda. The delay came after objections from the Congressional Progressive Caucus and fiscally conservative Democrats. “Very frankly, we wouldn’t have lost any vote this week if we wanted to win,” Mr. Hoyer said.   

Supported by By Emily Cochrane LEESBURG, Va. — House Democrats insisted on Thursday that they remained optimistic about potential compromises with the Trump administration on infrastructure, prescription drugs prices and immigration, even as they criticized the president’s prospective Federal Reserve Board picks and his recent comments about migrants and asylum seekers. The balance that Speaker Nancy Pelosi, her deputies and new Democratic members sought to strike during an annual member retreat underscored the contradictions of their approach to divided government. Even as they have railed against the president in pushing to expand their agenda and diverse majority, the Democrats still have clung to the possibility of compromise with President Trump and Senate Republicans to deliver some of their campaign promises. Much of the agenda that Democrats worked to highlight at the three-day conference at the Lansdowne Resort and Spa in suburban Virginia — “putting check marks next to the to-do list,” as Representative Veronica Escobar, Democrat of Texas, put it — has yet to reach the Senate floor. And it is not likely to, with Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader, in control. The first 100 days of the Democrats’ majority in the House included a record-long government shutdown and involved partisan squabbling, including over tougher administration oversight and the scope of the party’s priorities. The retreat also offered a chance for lawmakers to regroup after multiple internal fissures that played out publicly, including a vote delay on a two-year budget deal and efforts by the House Democratic campaign wing to shut down party challengers. “This is bigger than us now,” said Representative Jahana Hayes, Democrat of Connecticut. “We’re a country built on compromise.” Several sessions at the conference aimed to address what lawmakers described as “kitchen table issues” — maintaining economic growth, lowering drug prices and working toward what Ms. Pelosi said could be at least a $1 trillion infrastructure package. “I’m not giving up on the president,” Ms. Pelosi said in reference to immigration overhaul, even as she bashed Mr. Trump’s recent comments that the country was “full” and could not accept any more migrants. But senior Democrats did not hold back from criticizing the president or the recent upheaval in his administration. Ms. Pelosi and Representative Hakeem Jeffries of New York, the No. 5 Democrat in the House, excoriated the two men Mr. Trump has singled out as potential nominees to the Fed: Stephen Moore, a conservative economic adviser to Mr. Trump, and Herman Cain, a former pizza executive whose 2012 bid for president ended over accusations of sexual misconduct. (Neither man has been formally nominated.) “With stiff competition, these two appointments to the Fed are the worst, ill-suited candidates the president could have come up with,” Ms. Pelosi told reporters at the retreat. Mr. Jeffries called the potential Fed picks an embarrassment. “It’s not clear to me if that’s reality or a ‘Saturday Night Live’ skit,” he said. By contrast, Ms. Pelosi praised Mr. Trump’s handpicked Fed chairman, Jerome H. Powell, and his independence in the face of repeated criticism from the president. He spoke to House Democrats later Thursday in a closed-door session on economic issues, a speech Ms. Pelosi said was not intended to be political. In the session, Mr. Powell emphasized that his role is apolitical and emphasized the Fed’s independence from political pressure, according to two people in the room. Asked by Representative Carolyn B. Maloney, Democrat of New York, if he believed either prospective nominee to the board would be independent, Mr. Powell declined to comment. Democrats at the retreat — which offered yoga sessions and a cooking class for lawmakers and their families — largely insisted their ideological divisions remained a strength. In one instance, Representative Jim Himes, Democrat of Connecticut, noted that moderates were responsible for the new majority, despite the emergence of a few progressive “rock stars.” But Representative Ben Ray Luján, Democrat of New Mexico and the deputy speaker, shrugged off any disagreements. “Make no mistake,” he said, “we get together to solve big problems.” Ms. Pelosi, who entered the dinner on Wednesday night with her caucus and the celebrity couple John Legend and Chrissy Teigen to “We Are Family,” rebuked news coverage that highlighted divisions in the wings of her new majority, telling reporters the next day, “You guys have it all wrong.” On Wednesday, Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the majority leader, had argued that the decision against voting on a budget caps deal this week was not a blow to the Democratic agenda. The delay came after objections from the Congressional Progressive Caucus and fiscally conservative Democrats. “Very frankly, we wouldn’t have lost any vote this week if we wanted to win,” Mr. Hoyer said.   Supported by The decision not to debate on Fox is shortsighted and could hurt the party and its candidates.  By Liz Mair Ms. Mair is a Republican strategist.  The Democratic National Committee’s decision to bar Fox News from hosting a 2020 Democratic presidential primary debate will undoubtedly, and understandably, prove to be a popular decision with the party’s core, primarily coastal base. But it’s also very shortsighted and could hurt the party and its candidates. In the minds of many progressive Democrats, Fox News may be synonymous with Sean Hannity. But in the minds of many other Americans, Fox News is synonymous with what they put on to watch Bret Baier, Shepard Smith or Chris Wallace. These Fox News anchors and personalities do not do the bidding of the Trump administration — go find Mr. Wallace’s recent grilling of the Trump anti-immigration White House policy adviser Stephen Miller if you’re unsure. It’s not a given that their viewers are entirely die-hard Trump fans, or even Republicans. Fox News — the actual news part — is indeed consumed by some Democrats and independents. And its viewership numbers are big enough that the D.N.C. is, in its way, cutting off its nose to spite its face by leaving those potential voters on the table and unspoken to. According to a 2017 Pew Research Center survey, 3 percent of 2016 Hillary Clinton voters cited Fox as their principal news source, exactly one percentage point behind the number who cited NBC and two points behind those who cited The New York Times as the “main source” of their news. Critically, Pew asked its question about “main sources” in an open-ended way; they were not pushing anyone to reply “Fox News.” Pew data from 2014 shows similar trends: 5 percent of people who called themselves “mostly liberal” cited Fox News as their “main source” of news about government and politics (the same number as cited MSNBC). So did 8 percent of those with “mixed” political views (MSNBC didn’t rate with them at all). According to New York Times reporting from 2012, a quarter of “Fox and Friends” viewers were Democrats or Democratic leaners; 9 percent were independents. It’s possible that in the era of Trump, those numbers have shifted a lot. It’s also possible that every Democrat or independent who watches Fox is a “hate viewer” or views it on mute just to see super-telegenic anchors smiling and looking friendly. But it’s more likely given that Fox has been the most-watched cable network for 17 years straight, some people who tune in are people Democrats actually want and need to vote for their candidates. That will be especially the case if the economy starts to sour — February’s job numbers offer a hint of that — and voters who were previously more favorable to Mr. Trump start to turn on him. That could easily happen in places where Fox is most likely consumed more by Democrats and independents — like Iowa, the first caucus state, where many farmers are reeling from the effect of Mr. Trump’s tariffs and where, in a packed primary field, 10 votes here or 10 votes there might make the difference between who emerges as a real contender for the nomination and who is culled straight out of the gate. This was presumably the logic behind Senator Kirsten Gillibrand’s decision to sit down for an interview with Mr. Wallace last month. Some Democrats criticized her for it, but according to a Washington Post media reporter, over two million people tuned in. Compare that with CNN’s town halls with Senator Bernie Sanders (1.35 million viewers), Senator Kamala Harris (1.95 million), Senator Amy Klobuchar (1.15 million) and Howard Schultz (1.02 million). Ms. Gillibrand may be on to something here, even if the Democratic Party as a whole is not. As a Republican who watches CNN and does not plan to vote in Virginia’s Democratic primary next year, I’d say Ms. Gillibrand probably is. I bet the conservative commentator and talk-radio host Erick Erickson, who “prefers” CNN to Fox but has pledged to vote for Mr. Trump, agrees. Apart from those numbers and facts, there’s another reason Democrats shouldn’t bar Fox News from hosting a debate. Ever heard the old political saying that you should never pick a fight with someone who buys ink by the barrel? It’s actually true. Diving into the “media bias” trough and attacking actual news organizations — and Fox News is one, as demonstrated by a roster of reporters that includes John Roberts and Ed Henry — is the last refuge of losing political organizations and candidates who will not triumph on the day. It’s an easy “base hit” that gins up existing supporters and makes them extra-motivated by feeling hard done by media elites. In some cases, it may even be 100 percent true. But think about it historically: Virtually every time you see a candidate or political group respond by explicitly screaming “media bias,” they end up losing the election they are fighting to win or whatever battle they find themselves in. It happened in 2008, it happened in 2012, and it happened in 2016. The D.N.C. people do not want to play that game, even if short-term they think it’s good for getting people who otherwise could not give a monkey’s uncle about the committee to pony up more $5 and $10 donations. (It probably will be, and very likely that’s a lot of what this is about.)  Smart political campaigns are about looking ahead to where things will most likely stand and what votes will be needed on Election Day — or the beginning of early voting — and not responding to whatever the drama of the day or the week is. Democrats hate Fox, and the pressure not to lend them credibility or “punish” it by allowing it to host a debate is immense.  But giving into it is ultimately more likely than not to prove shortsighted and pointless. The “no Fox debate” rabble rousers will vote Democratic anyway; those Democrats and independents watching Fox might not. Suck it up and do the debate. It’s the smarter move strategically. Liz Mair, who was a strategist for campaigns by Scott Walker, Roy Blunt, Rand Paul, Carly Fiorina and Rick Perry, is the founder and president of Mair Strategies. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported by The decision not to debate on Fox is shortsighted and could hurt the party and its candidates.  By Liz Mair Ms. Mair is a Republican strategist.  The Democratic National Committee’s decision to bar Fox News from hosting a 2020 Democratic presidential primary debate will undoubtedly, and understandably, prove to be a popular decision with the party’s core, primarily coastal base. But it’s also very shortsighted and could hurt the party and its candidates. In the minds of many progressive Democrats, Fox News may be synonymous with Sean Hannity. But in the minds of many other Americans, Fox News is synonymous with what they put on to watch Bret Baier, Shepard Smith or Chris Wallace. These Fox News anchors and personalities do not do the bidding of the Trump administration — go find Mr. Wallace’s recent grilling of the Trump anti-immigration White House policy adviser Stephen Miller if you’re unsure. It’s not a given that their viewers are entirely die-hard Trump fans, or even Republicans. Fox News — the actual news part — is indeed consumed by some Democrats and independents. And its viewership numbers are big enough that the D.N.C. is, in its way, cutting off its nose to spite its face by leaving those potential voters on the table and unspoken to. According to a 2017 Pew Research Center survey, 3 percent of 2016 Hillary Clinton voters cited Fox as their principal news source, exactly one percentage point behind the number who cited NBC and two points behind those who cited The New York Times as the “main source” of their news. Critically, Pew asked its question about “main sources” in an open-ended way; they were not pushing anyone to reply “Fox News.” Pew data from 2014 shows similar trends: 5 percent of people who called themselves “mostly liberal” cited Fox News as their “main source” of news about government and politics (the same number as cited MSNBC). So did 8 percent of those with “mixed” political views (MSNBC didn’t rate with them at all). According to New York Times reporting from 2012, a quarter of “Fox and Friends” viewers were Democrats or Democratic leaners; 9 percent were independents. It’s possible that in the era of Trump, those numbers have shifted a lot. It’s also possible that every Democrat or independent who watches Fox is a “hate viewer” or views it on mute just to see super-telegenic anchors smiling and looking friendly. But it’s more likely given that Fox has been the most-watched cable network for 17 years straight, some people who tune in are people Democrats actually want and need to vote for their candidates. That will be especially the case if the economy starts to sour — February’s job numbers offer a hint of that — and voters who were previously more favorable to Mr. Trump start to turn on him. That could easily happen in places where Fox is most likely consumed more by Democrats and independents — like Iowa, the first caucus state, where many farmers are reeling from the effect of Mr. Trump’s tariffs and where, in a packed primary field, 10 votes here or 10 votes there might make the difference between who emerges as a real contender for the nomination and who is culled straight out of the gate. This was presumably the logic behind Senator Kirsten Gillibrand’s decision to sit down for an interview with Mr. Wallace last month. Some Democrats criticized her for it, but according to a Washington Post media reporter, over two million people tuned in. Compare that with CNN’s town halls with Senator Bernie Sanders (1.35 million viewers), Senator Kamala Harris (1.95 million), Senator Amy Klobuchar (1.15 million) and Howard Schultz (1.02 million). Ms. Gillibrand may be on to something here, even if the Democratic Party as a whole is not. As a Republican who watches CNN and does not plan to vote in Virginia’s Democratic primary next year, I’d say Ms. Gillibrand probably is. I bet the conservative commentator and talk-radio host Erick Erickson, who “prefers” CNN to Fox but has pledged to vote for Mr. Trump, agrees. Apart from those numbers and facts, there’s another reason Democrats shouldn’t bar Fox News from hosting a debate. Ever heard the old political saying that you should never pick a fight with someone who buys ink by the barrel? It’s actually true. Diving into the “media bias” trough and attacking actual news organizations — and Fox News is one, as demonstrated by a roster of reporters that includes John Roberts and Ed Henry — is the last refuge of losing political organizations and candidates who will not triumph on the day. It’s an easy “base hit” that gins up existing supporters and makes them extra-motivated by feeling hard done by media elites. In some cases, it may even be 100 percent true. But think about it historically: Virtually every time you see a candidate or political group respond by explicitly screaming “media bias,” they end up losing the election they are fighting to win or whatever battle they find themselves in. It happened in 2008, it happened in 2012, and it happened in 2016. The D.N.C. people do not want to play that game, even if short-term they think it’s good for getting people who otherwise could not give a monkey’s uncle about the committee to pony up more $5 and $10 donations. (It probably will be, and very likely that’s a lot of what this is about.)  Smart political campaigns are about looking ahead to where things will most likely stand and what votes will be needed on Election Day — or the beginning of early voting — and not responding to whatever the drama of the day or the week is. Democrats hate Fox, and the pressure not to lend them credibility or “punish” it by allowing it to host a debate is immense.  But giving into it is ultimately more likely than not to prove shortsighted and pointless. The “no Fox debate” rabble rousers will vote Democratic anyway; those Democrats and independents watching Fox might not. Suck it up and do the debate. It’s the smarter move strategically. Liz Mair, who was a strategist for campaigns by Scott Walker, Roy Blunt, Rand Paul, Carly Fiorina and Rick Perry, is the founder and president of Mair Strategies. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Supported by On health care, this isn’t what Trump’s voters bargained for.  By Jamelle Bouie Opinion Columnist Cleared of “collusion” and flush with victory, President Trump is a man unleashed, ready to tackle everything that’s evaded him over the last two years. His first target is health care. “We’re going to get rid of Obamacare,” Trump said at a rally in Grand Rapids, Mich., on Thursday. “And I said the other day, the Republican Party will become the party of great health care. It’s good. It’s important.” To that end, Trump had directed the Justice Department on Monday to seek the invalidation of the entire law, backing a federal district judge in Texas who declared it unconstitutional late last year. Unraveling the Affordable Care Act would deal a catastrophic blow to the safety net. The health exchanges and new insurance regulations? Gone. Medicaid expansion, which even in its truncated form has reached people in 36 states? Gone. The host of protections for people who get health care through jobs and private insurers? Gone. Republican elites might cheer this destruction, but soon enough they would face millions of voters who pulled levers in 2016 believing that Trump and the Republican Party would protect them. Remember, Trump did not run for president as an orthodox conservative Republican. He embraced social programs and so-called entitlements, rejecting the party’s boilerplate on government and the economy. “I’m not going to cut Social Security like every other Republican, and I’m not going to cut Medicare or Medicaid,” he said during the campaign. Elaborating on health care, he told CBS News that “everybody’s got to be covered,” which he called an “un-Republican thing” to say. “I am going to take care of everybody,” he added. “I don’t care if it costs me votes or not.” This rhetoric mattered. Trump’s victory hinged on a group of voters supportive of programs like Social Security and Medicare but hostile toward Hispanic immigrants, Muslims and black Americans. These voters were cross-pressured: They were both opposed to conservative anti-government ideology and repelled by racial and cultural liberalism. Trump relieved that pressure. He embraced the welfare state and demonized racial and religious minorities, attracting the most racially resentful whites from across the political spectrum. The substantial minority of Democrats who believed that “discrimination against whites is as big a problem today as discrimination against blacks and other minorities” could back a Republican presidential candidate without sacrificing their support for signature Democratic programs. They could indulge their racial chauvinism without jeopardizing their other priorities. A disciplined Trump could have reshaped the Republican Party’s agenda to meet the economic concerns of its increasingly blue-collar base, sidelining the anti-government conservatism of figures like the former speaker of the House, Paul Ryan, or Senator Ted Cruz. There was a glimpse of this  at the start of his term, from an Inaugural Address devoted to “the forgotten men and women of our country” to the promise of “economic nationalism” from Steve Bannon, then the president’s “chief strategist.” Instead, Trump ceded most of his domestic agenda to the most conservative Republicans, with Ryan and the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, taking the lead in Congress and a cadre of ideologues shaping policy inside and outside the White House. Out was Trump’s health care for everyone; in was an aggressive effort to repeal the Affordable Care Act and unravel Medicaid. Out was a $1 trillion infrastructure project; in was a nearly $2 trillion tax cut weighted toward large corporations and wealthy individuals. Key officials have moved the administration even further to the right. As director of the Office of Management and Budget, Mick Mulvaney wrote proposals with deep, destructive cuts to the social safety net. Now working as White House chief of staff, he appears to be the driving force behind this new attempt to repeal the Affordable Care Act. He persuaded Trump to join a lawsuit by Republican attorneys general to invalidate the law, reportedly over the objections of Alex Azar, the health and human services secretary, and Attorney General William Barr, who will have to carry out the effort. But while Trump’s decision to govern for conservatives has netted him high approval ratings with Republicans who remain loyal to him, it has also undermined the coalition that put him in the White House, threatening his prospects for re-election. We saw some of this with the midterms. The drive to repeal Obamacare was a major reason Republicans lost their majority in the House of Representatives. The attempt  made Trump’s approval rating plunge to the mid-30s, lower than that of other presidents at that point in their first term. Large majorities opposed the bill to repeal and replace the health care law, and 60 percent said it was a “good thing” it failed to pass. Forty-two percent of voters named health care as their top issue in the midterms, and 77 percent of them backed Democrats. In 2016, Trump ran without the burden of a record. He could be everything to everyone — he could say what people wanted to hear. And he used that to reach out to working-class whites as a moderate on the economy and a hard-line conservative on race and immigration. Now, as president, Trump is a standard-issue Republican with an almost total commitment to conservative economic policy. Those policies are unpopular. And they have created an opening for Democrats to win back some of the voters they’ve lost. Speaking to The Washington Post, Chris Christie, the New Jersey governor who became an early Trump ally, summarized the conventional wisdom after Robert Mueller cleared the president of “collusion” and deferred on obstruction of justice. “It lifts a cloud that was over the White House for the entire time he was there,” Christie said. But if you accept that voters will evaluate Trump the way they would an ordinary president, then the greatest threat to his political future was never just scandal and investigation. Instead, it was the vast gap between what he promised on the trail and what he has delivered in the White House. If Americans reject him in 2020, it will be in part because he has lost many of the people he said he would help. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Jamelle Bouie became a New York Times Opinion columnist in 2019. Before that he was the chief political correspondent for Slate magazine. He is based in Charlottesville, Va., and Washington.  @jbouie 

Supported by On health care, this isn’t what Trump’s voters bargained for.  By Jamelle Bouie Opinion Columnist Cleared of “collusion” and flush with victory, President Trump is a man unleashed, ready to tackle everything that’s evaded him over the last two years. His first target is health care. “We’re going to get rid of Obamacare,” Trump said at a rally in Grand Rapids, Mich., on Thursday. “And I said the other day, the Republican Party will become the party of great health care. It’s good. It’s important.” To that end, Trump had directed the Justice Department on Monday to seek the invalidation of the entire law, backing a federal district judge in Texas who declared it unconstitutional late last year. Unraveling the Affordable Care Act would deal a catastrophic blow to the safety net. The health exchanges and new insurance regulations? Gone. Medicaid expansion, which even in its truncated form has reached people in 36 states? Gone. The host of protections for people who get health care through jobs and private insurers? Gone. Republican elites might cheer this destruction, but soon enough they would face millions of voters who pulled levers in 2016 believing that Trump and the Republican Party would protect them. Remember, Trump did not run for president as an orthodox conservative Republican. He embraced social programs and so-called entitlements, rejecting the party’s boilerplate on government and the economy. “I’m not going to cut Social Security like every other Republican, and I’m not going to cut Medicare or Medicaid,” he said during the campaign. Elaborating on health care, he told CBS News that “everybody’s got to be covered,” which he called an “un-Republican thing” to say. “I am going to take care of everybody,” he added. “I don’t care if it costs me votes or not.” This rhetoric mattered. Trump’s victory hinged on a group of voters supportive of programs like Social Security and Medicare but hostile toward Hispanic immigrants, Muslims and black Americans. These voters were cross-pressured: They were both opposed to conservative anti-government ideology and repelled by racial and cultural liberalism. Trump relieved that pressure. He embraced the welfare state and demonized racial and religious minorities, attracting the most racially resentful whites from across the political spectrum. The substantial minority of Democrats who believed that “discrimination against whites is as big a problem today as discrimination against blacks and other minorities” could back a Republican presidential candidate without sacrificing their support for signature Democratic programs. They could indulge their racial chauvinism without jeopardizing their other priorities. A disciplined Trump could have reshaped the Republican Party’s agenda to meet the economic concerns of its increasingly blue-collar base, sidelining the anti-government conservatism of figures like the former speaker of the House, Paul Ryan, or Senator Ted Cruz. There was a glimpse of this  at the start of his term, from an Inaugural Address devoted to “the forgotten men and women of our country” to the promise of “economic nationalism” from Steve Bannon, then the president’s “chief strategist.” Instead, Trump ceded most of his domestic agenda to the most conservative Republicans, with Ryan and the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, taking the lead in Congress and a cadre of ideologues shaping policy inside and outside the White House. Out was Trump’s health care for everyone; in was an aggressive effort to repeal the Affordable Care Act and unravel Medicaid. Out was a $1 trillion infrastructure project; in was a nearly $2 trillion tax cut weighted toward large corporations and wealthy individuals. Key officials have moved the administration even further to the right. As director of the Office of Management and Budget, Mick Mulvaney wrote proposals with deep, destructive cuts to the social safety net. Now working as White House chief of staff, he appears to be the driving force behind this new attempt to repeal the Affordable Care Act. He persuaded Trump to join a lawsuit by Republican attorneys general to invalidate the law, reportedly over the objections of Alex Azar, the health and human services secretary, and Attorney General William Barr, who will have to carry out the effort. But while Trump’s decision to govern for conservatives has netted him high approval ratings with Republicans who remain loyal to him, it has also undermined the coalition that put him in the White House, threatening his prospects for re-election. We saw some of this with the midterms. The drive to repeal Obamacare was a major reason Republicans lost their majority in the House of Representatives. The attempt  made Trump’s approval rating plunge to the mid-30s, lower than that of other presidents at that point in their first term. Large majorities opposed the bill to repeal and replace the health care law, and 60 percent said it was a “good thing” it failed to pass. Forty-two percent of voters named health care as their top issue in the midterms, and 77 percent of them backed Democrats. In 2016, Trump ran without the burden of a record. He could be everything to everyone — he could say what people wanted to hear. And he used that to reach out to working-class whites as a moderate on the economy and a hard-line conservative on race and immigration. Now, as president, Trump is a standard-issue Republican with an almost total commitment to conservative economic policy. Those policies are unpopular. And they have created an opening for Democrats to win back some of the voters they’ve lost. Speaking to The Washington Post, Chris Christie, the New Jersey governor who became an early Trump ally, summarized the conventional wisdom after Robert Mueller cleared the president of “collusion” and deferred on obstruction of justice. “It lifts a cloud that was over the White House for the entire time he was there,” Christie said. But if you accept that voters will evaluate Trump the way they would an ordinary president, then the greatest threat to his political future was never just scandal and investigation. Instead, it was the vast gap between what he promised on the trail and what he has delivered in the White House. If Americans reject him in 2020, it will be in part because he has lost many of the people he said he would help. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Jamelle Bouie became a New York Times Opinion columnist in 2019. Before that he was the chief political correspondent for Slate magazine. He is based in Charlottesville, Va., and Washington.  @jbouie Supported by Not so long ago, the party had a clear platform. It no longer does. By David Leonhardt Opinion Columnist This article is part of David Leonhardt’s newsletter. You can sign up here to receive it each weekday. The Democratic Party no longer has a clear policy on immigration. It used to, not so long ago. The party’s leaders knew what they favored and felt comfortable saying so. Their platform generally included: 1) a path to citizenship for immigrants who came to this country illegally but had since obeyed the law; 2) deportation of undocumented immigrants who had since broken the law in significant ways; 3) fairly robust border security and investigation of companies employing undocumented immigrants, to hold down current and future levels of illegal immigration. Besides favoring these policies, Democrats were also willing to talk about the benefits of limiting immigration and of assimilation.  [Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.] Consider this 2015 statement from Bernie Sanders: “What right-wing people in this country would love is an open-border policy … I don’t believe in that. I think we have to raise wages in this country.” Or this 2006 line from Barack Obama, in his book, “The Audacity of Hope”: “When I see Mexican flags waved at pro-immigration demonstrations, I sometimes feel a flush of patriotic resentment.” Or this comment last year from Hillary Clinton: “I think Europe needs to get a handle on migration.” It earned her immediate condemnation from progressives and a scathing story in The Times. I understand why the Democratic Party has moved to the left on immigration policy over the past few years. It is, in significant part, an honorable reaction to Donald Trump’s anti-immigrant racism and a desire to stand up for immigrants during his presidency. The Trump administration has separated immigrant children from their parents, and Democrats are trying to protect those families. What’s less clear to me is exactly what the Democratic Party’s new position on immigration is. Questions to answer Among the questions that I’d like Democrats to answer: What kind of border security do you believe in? Do you favor the policies Obama put in place to reduce illegal immigration — or a different approach? Do you believe that immigrants who enter this country illegally should be allowed to stay? If not, which categories of undocumented immigrants should be at risk of deportation? (In a 2016 debate, Clinton and Sanders didn’t offer clear answers when Univision’s Jorge Ramos asked similar questions.) What do you believe should happen to future levels of legal immigration? And what should happen to the mix of different categories of immigration? Should family connections play as large a role as they now do? Should workplace skills continue to play a small role? Do you believe, as Sanders suggested in 2015, that more immigration can reduce wages, especially for lower-income workers and recent immigrants themselves? My own view is that the country benefits from significant limits on immigration. As David Frum notes in a recent cover story for The Atlantic, immigration levels were quite low for much of the 20th century — from roughly the 1910s through the 1970s.  The slowdown helped many of the immigrants who arrived in the waves before 1910 (including parts of my family). They faced less competition in the labor market. Labor unions were more easily able to grow, because they were organizing an increasingly assimilated workforce. The immigration slowdown played a role in the great income surge of the post-World War II decades.  Today, I’d favor a policy with a lot of similarities to the Democrats’ platform of the Obama years, including humane treatment of immigrants already here plus tight border security. I’d change the mix of immigration, to let in fewer low-skills immigrants and more high-skills immigrants. Doing so has the potential to reduce inequality and lift economic growth. I recognize that this platform is probably too conservative for many Democrats. But high levels of immigration, stretching over many decades, is not an American tradition. It’s something new, and it brings both upsides and downsides. For anyone who wants to think through the subject, I recommend Frum’s article. (The politician quotations above come from it.) For critiques of Frum’s piece, see Nancy LeTourneau in Washington Monthly and Noah Smith of Bloomberg Opinion. If nothing else, I’d urge Democrats to look at public opinion on immigration with an open mind. The polling isn’t as favorable as some of the recent conversation on the left has suggested. In a recent Gallup poll, 47 percent of Americans called illegal immigration a critical threat and another 30 percent called it an important threat. I wouldn’t call it either of those. But I do think it’s folly — both substantively and politically — to pretend that more immigration is always better than less. And I think it’s a mistake for Democrats to be so unclear about what their party’s immigration agenda is. If you are not a subscriber to this newsletter, you can subscribe here. You can also join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt • Facebook 

Supported by Not so long ago, the party had a clear platform. It no longer does. By David Leonhardt Opinion Columnist This article is part of David Leonhardt’s newsletter. You can sign up here to receive it each weekday. The Democratic Party no longer has a clear policy on immigration. It used to, not so long ago. The party’s leaders knew what they favored and felt comfortable saying so. Their platform generally included: 1) a path to citizenship for immigrants who came to this country illegally but had since obeyed the law; 2) deportation of undocumented immigrants who had since broken the law in significant ways; 3) fairly robust border security and investigation of companies employing undocumented immigrants, to hold down current and future levels of illegal immigration. Besides favoring these policies, Democrats were also willing to talk about the benefits of limiting immigration and of assimilation.  [Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.] Consider this 2015 statement from Bernie Sanders: “What right-wing people in this country would love is an open-border policy … I don’t believe in that. I think we have to raise wages in this country.” Or this 2006 line from Barack Obama, in his book, “The Audacity of Hope”: “When I see Mexican flags waved at pro-immigration demonstrations, I sometimes feel a flush of patriotic resentment.” Or this comment last year from Hillary Clinton: “I think Europe needs to get a handle on migration.” It earned her immediate condemnation from progressives and a scathing story in The Times. I understand why the Democratic Party has moved to the left on immigration policy over the past few years. It is, in significant part, an honorable reaction to Donald Trump’s anti-immigrant racism and a desire to stand up for immigrants during his presidency. The Trump administration has separated immigrant children from their parents, and Democrats are trying to protect those families. What’s less clear to me is exactly what the Democratic Party’s new position on immigration is. Questions to answer Among the questions that I’d like Democrats to answer: What kind of border security do you believe in? Do you favor the policies Obama put in place to reduce illegal immigration — or a different approach? Do you believe that immigrants who enter this country illegally should be allowed to stay? If not, which categories of undocumented immigrants should be at risk of deportation? (In a 2016 debate, Clinton and Sanders didn’t offer clear answers when Univision’s Jorge Ramos asked similar questions.) What do you believe should happen to future levels of legal immigration? And what should happen to the mix of different categories of immigration? Should family connections play as large a role as they now do? Should workplace skills continue to play a small role? Do you believe, as Sanders suggested in 2015, that more immigration can reduce wages, especially for lower-income workers and recent immigrants themselves? My own view is that the country benefits from significant limits on immigration. As David Frum notes in a recent cover story for The Atlantic, immigration levels were quite low for much of the 20th century — from roughly the 1910s through the 1970s.  The slowdown helped many of the immigrants who arrived in the waves before 1910 (including parts of my family). They faced less competition in the labor market. Labor unions were more easily able to grow, because they were organizing an increasingly assimilated workforce. The immigration slowdown played a role in the great income surge of the post-World War II decades.  Today, I’d favor a policy with a lot of similarities to the Democrats’ platform of the Obama years, including humane treatment of immigrants already here plus tight border security. I’d change the mix of immigration, to let in fewer low-skills immigrants and more high-skills immigrants. Doing so has the potential to reduce inequality and lift economic growth. I recognize that this platform is probably too conservative for many Democrats. But high levels of immigration, stretching over many decades, is not an American tradition. It’s something new, and it brings both upsides and downsides. For anyone who wants to think through the subject, I recommend Frum’s article. (The politician quotations above come from it.) For critiques of Frum’s piece, see Nancy LeTourneau in Washington Monthly and Noah Smith of Bloomberg Opinion. If nothing else, I’d urge Democrats to look at public opinion on immigration with an open mind. The polling isn’t as favorable as some of the recent conversation on the left has suggested. In a recent Gallup poll, 47 percent of Americans called illegal immigration a critical threat and another 30 percent called it an important threat. I wouldn’t call it either of those. But I do think it’s folly — both substantively and politically — to pretend that more immigration is always better than less. And I think it’s a mistake for Democrats to be so unclear about what their party’s immigration agenda is. If you are not a subscriber to this newsletter, you can subscribe here. You can also join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt • Facebook Supported by By Nicholas Fandos WASHINGTON — Attorney General William P. Barr’s summary on Sunday of the special counsel investigation keeps the impeachment of President Trump off the table, at least for now, but Democrats vowed to push forward with investigations into every aspect of the presidency and for access to the full report of the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III. Although Democrats did not dispute Mr. Mueller’s conclusion that Mr. Trump and his campaign did not conspire with Russia to influence the 2016 election, they moved quickly to seize on less definitive statements made by Mr. Mueller and Mr. Barr on whether the president obstructed justice. Specifically, they said an apparent disagreement between the two men over how to judge evidence collected by the special counsel made it imperative for Congress to scrutinize every detail of the case to ensure impartiality. Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, which is investigating whether Mr. Trump obstructed justice or abused power, promptly said he would call Mr. Barr to explain “very concerning discrepancies” in a hearing before his committee. Mr. Barr quoted from Mr. Mueller’s report in his summary: “The special counsel states that ‘while this report does not conclude that the president committed a crime, it also does not exonerate him.’” But then added that he and Rod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general, had concluded the evidence developed by Mr. Mueller “is not sufficient to establish” that Mr. Trump obstructed justice. The top Democrats in the Senate and House also urged public release of Mr. Mueller’s full report to see that evidence. “The fact that special counsel Mueller’s report does not exonerate the president on a charge as serious as obstruction of justice demonstrates how urgent it is that the full report and underlying documentation be made public without any further delay,” Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California and Senator Chuck Schumer of New York said in a joint statement. “The American people have a right to know,” they added. With other congressional investigations of Mr. Trump swirling, the Democrats’ stance raised the prospect that they could undertake months, if not years, of scrutinizing federal prosecutors and top officials of the Justice Department — a prospect that echoes Republicans’ yearslong pursuit of the federal officials who handled the investigation of Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email server. Taken together, the investigations still threaten to damage Mr. Trump politically. But Republicans, including the president, are already demanding that Democrats accept Mr. Barr’s conclusions and move on. They moved swiftly to claim political victory and shift the onus to Democrats to justify their continued scrutiny of the president. “Good day for the rule of law,” said Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina and the Judiciary Committee chairman in his chamber. “The cloud hanging over President Trump has been removed by this report.” Representative Doug Collins of Georgia, the top Republican on the House Judiciary Committee, was more provocative to his Democratic counterparts. Mr. Nadler and the Democrats, he said, had “the chance to rethink his sprawling investigation, which retreads ground already covered by the special counsel and is already a matter of public record.” “I hope he recognizes that what may be political fodder for Democrats may not be good for our country,” he added. Mr. Trump, who has already denounced “presidential harassment,” is certain to amplify that message in the coming months as he shifts more of his attention to his 2020 re-election campaign. But for now, with their base behind them and views of Mr. Trump largely baked in across the electorate, Democrats said there was no chance the argument would work. They view Mr. Trump’s potential wrongdoing as consequential, and after two years of watching powerlessly from the House minority, will not be quick to give up on the oversight they deem essential. Democrats on the House Judiciary Committee, ground zero for the investigations and any potential impeachment, convened an emergency conference call for members Sunday afternoon to talk through next steps. Lawmakers were almost uniformly on the same page, one Democrat on the call said, and it only further resolved their intent to fight for Mr. Mueller’s underlying work. “We’re going to move forward with our investigation into obstruction of justice, abuses of power, corruption, to defend the rule of law, which is our job,” Mr. Nadler told reporters in New York afterward. “It’s a broader mandate than the special prosecutor has. His mandate is only for crimes.” Mr. Nadler said he rejected Mr. Trump’s claim of vindication, and zeroed in on Mr. Barr, whom he described as having prejudged the matter of obstruction. “He auditioned for his job by writing a 19-page memorandum giving a very extreme view of obstruction of justice in presidential power and saying basically no president can commit obstruction of justice,” Mr. Nadler said, referring to a memo Mr. Barr wrote in June 2018 about executive authority. Mr. Nadler pledged to use every tool at his disposal to gain access to the full report and evidence — the public release of which Mr. Barr said Sunday raised challenges given grand jury and other sensitive information. Mr. Nadler’s committee is not the only one scrutinizing the president and his administration. Since they took control of the House, Democrats have been investigating Mr. Trump’s businesses, his role in hush money payments during the campaign to a pornographic film actress who claimed to have had an affair with him, accusations of corruption in various federal agencies and other topics. “I don’t know that any of our investigations depended on the red herring concept of collusion between the Trump campaign and Putin’s forces,” Representative Jamie Raskin, a Maryland Democrat and former constitutional law professor, said in an interview, referring to a series of ongoing investigations into numerous aspects of the Trump White House and Mr. Trump’s businesses. The collusion theory is the basis, at least in part, for the House Intelligence Committee’s own investigation of Russian election interference, and it was less clear on Sunday how Democrats leading that panel would incorporate Mr. Mueller’s definitive conclusion that there had been no conspiracy between the Trump campaign and Russia to undermine the 2016 election. Then again, the committee’s chairman, Representative Adam B. Schiff of California, had in a sense already built in a response, framing his inquiry as not just about Russia, but any other foreign powers that could have financial or other leverage over Mr. Trump and his associates. At least on the question of impeachment — a constitutional remedy so grave it has been pursued seriously against a president only twice in modern American history — the outlook appeared to be clearer. Mr. Nadler and Ms. Pelosi, students of the failed Republican attempt to remove Bill Clinton from office in the 1990s, have warned repeatedly that they would not go down that path unaccompanied by Republicans. “Unless there’s something so compelling and overwhelming and bipartisan, I don’t think we should go down that path, because it divides the country,” Ms. Pelosi told The Washington Post two weeks ago. “And he’s just not worth it.” Though Ms. Pelosi did not address impeachment in her statement with Mr. Schumer, Republicans’ jubilant declaration of presidential innocence seemed to all but foreclose the kind of defection from his own party that she and Mr. Nadler had said would be necessary. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.

Supported by By Nicholas Fandos WASHINGTON — Attorney General William P. Barr’s summary on Sunday of the special counsel investigation keeps the impeachment of President Trump off the table, at least for now, but Democrats vowed to push forward with investigations into every aspect of the presidency and for access to the full report of the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III. Although Democrats did not dispute Mr. Mueller’s conclusion that Mr. Trump and his campaign did not conspire with Russia to influence the 2016 election, they moved quickly to seize on less definitive statements made by Mr. Mueller and Mr. Barr on whether the president obstructed justice. Specifically, they said an apparent disagreement between the two men over how to judge evidence collected by the special counsel made it imperative for Congress to scrutinize every detail of the case to ensure impartiality. Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, which is investigating whether Mr. Trump obstructed justice or abused power, promptly said he would call Mr. Barr to explain “very concerning discrepancies” in a hearing before his committee. Mr. Barr quoted from Mr. Mueller’s report in his summary: “The special counsel states that ‘while this report does not conclude that the president committed a crime, it also does not exonerate him.’” But then added that he and Rod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general, had concluded the evidence developed by Mr. Mueller “is not sufficient to establish” that Mr. Trump obstructed justice. The top Democrats in the Senate and House also urged public release of Mr. Mueller’s full report to see that evidence. “The fact that special counsel Mueller’s report does not exonerate the president on a charge as serious as obstruction of justice demonstrates how urgent it is that the full report and underlying documentation be made public without any further delay,” Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California and Senator Chuck Schumer of New York said in a joint statement. “The American people have a right to know,” they added. With other congressional investigations of Mr. Trump swirling, the Democrats’ stance raised the prospect that they could undertake months, if not years, of scrutinizing federal prosecutors and top officials of the Justice Department — a prospect that echoes Republicans’ yearslong pursuit of the federal officials who handled the investigation of Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email server. Taken together, the investigations still threaten to damage Mr. Trump politically. But Republicans, including the president, are already demanding that Democrats accept Mr. Barr’s conclusions and move on. They moved swiftly to claim political victory and shift the onus to Democrats to justify their continued scrutiny of the president. “Good day for the rule of law,” said Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina and the Judiciary Committee chairman in his chamber. “The cloud hanging over President Trump has been removed by this report.” Representative Doug Collins of Georgia, the top Republican on the House Judiciary Committee, was more provocative to his Democratic counterparts. Mr. Nadler and the Democrats, he said, had “the chance to rethink his sprawling investigation, which retreads ground already covered by the special counsel and is already a matter of public record.” “I hope he recognizes that what may be political fodder for Democrats may not be good for our country,” he added. Mr. Trump, who has already denounced “presidential harassment,” is certain to amplify that message in the coming months as he shifts more of his attention to his 2020 re-election campaign. But for now, with their base behind them and views of Mr. Trump largely baked in across the electorate, Democrats said there was no chance the argument would work. They view Mr. Trump’s potential wrongdoing as consequential, and after two years of watching powerlessly from the House minority, will not be quick to give up on the oversight they deem essential. Democrats on the House Judiciary Committee, ground zero for the investigations and any potential impeachment, convened an emergency conference call for members Sunday afternoon to talk through next steps. Lawmakers were almost uniformly on the same page, one Democrat on the call said, and it only further resolved their intent to fight for Mr. Mueller’s underlying work. “We’re going to move forward with our investigation into obstruction of justice, abuses of power, corruption, to defend the rule of law, which is our job,” Mr. Nadler told reporters in New York afterward. “It’s a broader mandate than the special prosecutor has. His mandate is only for crimes.” Mr. Nadler said he rejected Mr. Trump’s claim of vindication, and zeroed in on Mr. Barr, whom he described as having prejudged the matter of obstruction. “He auditioned for his job by writing a 19-page memorandum giving a very extreme view of obstruction of justice in presidential power and saying basically no president can commit obstruction of justice,” Mr. Nadler said, referring to a memo Mr. Barr wrote in June 2018 about executive authority. Mr. Nadler pledged to use every tool at his disposal to gain access to the full report and evidence — the public release of which Mr. Barr said Sunday raised challenges given grand jury and other sensitive information. Mr. Nadler’s committee is not the only one scrutinizing the president and his administration. Since they took control of the House, Democrats have been investigating Mr. Trump’s businesses, his role in hush money payments during the campaign to a pornographic film actress who claimed to have had an affair with him, accusations of corruption in various federal agencies and other topics. “I don’t know that any of our investigations depended on the red herring concept of collusion between the Trump campaign and Putin’s forces,” Representative Jamie Raskin, a Maryland Democrat and former constitutional law professor, said in an interview, referring to a series of ongoing investigations into numerous aspects of the Trump White House and Mr. Trump’s businesses. The collusion theory is the basis, at least in part, for the House Intelligence Committee’s own investigation of Russian election interference, and it was less clear on Sunday how Democrats leading that panel would incorporate Mr. Mueller’s definitive conclusion that there had been no conspiracy between the Trump campaign and Russia to undermine the 2016 election. Then again, the committee’s chairman, Representative Adam B. Schiff of California, had in a sense already built in a response, framing his inquiry as not just about Russia, but any other foreign powers that could have financial or other leverage over Mr. Trump and his associates. At least on the question of impeachment — a constitutional remedy so grave it has been pursued seriously against a president only twice in modern American history — the outlook appeared to be clearer. Mr. Nadler and Ms. Pelosi, students of the failed Republican attempt to remove Bill Clinton from office in the 1990s, have warned repeatedly that they would not go down that path unaccompanied by Republicans. “Unless there’s something so compelling and overwhelming and bipartisan, I don’t think we should go down that path, because it divides the country,” Ms. Pelosi told The Washington Post two weeks ago. “And he’s just not worth it.” Though Ms. Pelosi did not address impeachment in her statement with Mr. Schumer, Republicans’ jubilant declaration of presidential innocence seemed to all but foreclose the kind of defection from his own party that she and Mr. Nadler had said would be necessary. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.transcript Hosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Andy Mills, Jessica Cheung and Paige Cowett, and edited by Lisa Tobin The Democratic Party has a long history of staunchly supporting Israel, but some new lawmakers are raising questions about the future of this stance. Tuesday, February 19th, 2019 michael barbaro From The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today: In the weeks since they’ve taken office, two freshman Democrats, Ilhan Omar and Rashida Tlaib have been engulfed in controversy over their criticisms of Israel. My colleagues Sheryl Gay Stolberg and Jonathan Weisman on how, after decades of unwavering commitment to Israel, the Democratic Party is now dealing with charges of anti-Semitism. It’s Tuesday, February 19. archived recording New York, Friday, May 14, 1948. The United Nations General Assembly is in special session. sheryl gay stolberg To understand the long relationship between Democrats and Israel — archived recording A new nation is being born. sheryl gay stolberg You really have to go back to the founding of the Jewish state. archived recording Israel, they have named their state. This is what they have waited for. This is what they have prayed for. archived recording (harry truman) It is my attitude that the American government couldn’t stand idly by while the victims of Hitler’s madness are not allowed to build new lives. sheryl gay stolberg Harry Truman, who was a Democrat, was the president who recognized Israel. archived recording (harry truman) Hitler had been murdering Jews right and left. It’s estimated that he killed six million Jews, burned most of them up in furnaces. It was a horrible thing. I saw it. And I dream about it even to this day. And on that account, the Jews needed someplace where they could go. jonathan weisman So it was associated with a Democrat. And Democrats felt a real affinity for the state of Israel. archived recording The concept of the kibbutz is relatively simple to explain. Everyone shares everything they have, they work together, and they live together. The laborer and the manager have the same wages. sheryl gay stolberg The alliance was one of values. Israel was a very aspirational state. It was a state about social justice, about a socialist way of thinking — giving an oppressed people a homeland. So all of those things really appealed to Democrats, who envisioned themselves as the fighters for oppressed people. archived recording We are in the midst of a very critical situation. We should therefore carefully avoid approaching international problems on an emotional basis. jonathan weisman Whereas Republicans were much more pragmatic and realpolitik — sheryl gay stolberg Republicans’ social policy views and foreign policy views did not really align with the Jewish state. Republicans certainly did not espouse socialism. And on the foreign policy side, Israel’s establishment in the middle of the Arab world had foreign policy pragmatists within the Republican Party very concerned that support for Israel would undermine America’s ties with important oil-producing states like Saudi Arabia. jonathan weisman And they saw Israel and the backing of Israel as a real complication in that. michael barbaro And was skepticism of Israel at this moment seen as anti-Semitic? jonathan weisman Not really. And that is partly because American Jews were not absolutely sold on the notion of Zionism and an Israeli state. For the longest time, American Judaism really evolved as its own religion. American Jews decided that the United States, this pluralistic, open, accepting society, was the new Zion. They were going to put their roots down in America. Then the politics of Israel inside the United States really began to shift at the 1973 Yom Kippur War. archived recording At 2 p.m., the armies of Egypt and Syria crossed the border. jonathan weisman It was a truly surprise invasion by the Arab countries. archived recording While the nation of Israel observed Yom Kippur, the combined military forces of Egypt and Syria launched a simultaneous and surprise attack on Israel’s southern and northern borders. jonathan weisman In that war, Israel almost was wiped off the map. archived recording The Israelis are moving in force across the canal in the central sector. They’re having to run — jonathan weisman The Israelis were backed against the wall. But — archived recording This people, alone as it is, surrounded as it is by enemies, has decided to live. jonathan weisman They battled their way out. archived recording This is not a people that can give in. jonathan weisman Three years after the Yom Kippur War came another major moment for American politics in Israel, and that was the raid on Entebbe. archived recording Israel is keeping some of the details secret. But it’s known that three American made transports flew 2,500 miles to Uganda, carrying Israeli commandos armed and ready for combat. After an Air France plane carrying largely Jewish passengers was hijacked by a Palestinian group on its way from Tel Aviv to Paris. jonathan weisman This Israeli commando force lands in this airport in Uganda and rescues a hijacked airplane — archived recording In 36 minutes, they killed seven hijackers and 20 Ugandan soldiers. Then they helped the hostages to the waiting planes and took off for Nairobi in Kenya. jonathan weisman — with almost no loss of life, and takes these people, whisks them away. They suddenly seemed like, wow, they’ve got it together. sheryl gay stolberg So you had kind of this new narrative develop of Israeli as this sort of small but mighty power in the Middle East. And I think that was very attractive to members of both parties in the United States. jonathan weisman Republicans started seeing a country of real military strength and might, and a really smart force in a very dangerous part of the world. Democrats saw a country that was still beleaguered, but willing to fight back. archived recording Tonight, Jesus of Nazareth passes by. jonathan weisman And then — archived recording Tonight may be the last time that Jesus will ever pass your way again. jonathan weisman This moment also came along with the rise of evangelical Christianity. archived recording (SINGING) Born again, free from sin — If we could only come to the place of all-out commitment, we could turn the world upside down and start a counterrevolution, a spiritual revolution following the Christian flag. sheryl gay stolberg Who were very, very supportive of Israel. archived recording Now God has called this in the Bible the navel of the earth — now, a navel is sort of like the place where a child is attached to his mother. And God used this as the place where he entered into human history. sheryl gay stolberg They believed that the Jews were the rightful inheritors of the land. archived recording This has been the center of God’s activity and his revelation in the earth. And that’s why all the world, the United Nations and the nations of the earth, one day, are going to come and move against Israel. jonathan weisman This fits perfectly with the evangelical theology in which the Jews will once again gather in Zion, and that will herald the second coming of Jesus Christ, the rapture and the beginning of the end of the world. archived recording We have a Jewish religion, and therefore, we feel that the Jews are our brothers and sisters. We are one in the family of God. (SINGING) Makes me shout, there’s no doubt, I know I’m born again. jonathan weisman All of that fits so perfectly, and the Israeli government plays it to a hilt. archived recording [SPEAKING HEBREW] jonathan weisman In 1981, when the Israelis bombed a fledgling nuclear reactor in Baghdad — archived recording It was simple logic. We decided to act now before it is too late. jonathan weisman One of the very first calls that Menachem Begin made to get support was to Jerry Falwell. michael barbaro The prime minister of Israel, before launching an attack on an Israeli adversary, calls the leader of an evangelical movement in the U.S. jonathan weisman That is correct. michael barbaro Wow. archived recording (ronald reagan) I have personally followed and supported Israel’s heroic struggle for survival ever since the founding of the state of Israel 34 years ago. sheryl gay stolberg And then it was during the Reagan administration where we saw the cementing of the special relationship across party lines. archived recording (ronald reagan) America’s commitment to the security of Israel is ironclad. And I might add, so is mine. jonathan weisman And coinciding with the emergence of this bipartisan support for Israel, there’s the American Israel Public Affairs Committee. sheryl gay stolberg Aipac. archived recording There are very few lobbies working the corners of Capitol Hill with as much cloud as Aipac, the American Israel Public Affairs Committee. jonathan weisman Which exists by definition to support the positions of the state of Israel. archived recording They’re the people who tell the Congress which legislation affecting Israel they like and which they don’t. sheryl gay stolberg And it also runs these very well-known trips to Israel for members of Congress. archived recording These trips give new and returning legislators the opportunity to see firsthand Israel’s security challenges. One powerful aspect of these trips is that members from both parties spend time in Israel together. jonathan weisman And it’s almost like a rite of initiation. When you become a member of Congress, one of the first things that happens is Aipac reaches out to you and says, why don’t you come on this educational trip that we’re running to Israel. And so you can see this kind of multiplier effect, in a way, across the country. archived recording There are many who charge that Aipac, with its sights set only on Israel, is just too demanding of U.S. politicians. sheryl gay stolberg Candidates who don’t support that vision — archived recording (charles percy) Practically every congressman and senator says his prayers to the Aipac lobby. sheryl gay stolberg — risks seeing people who are committed to Aipac mobilize against them. A very good example came out of Illinois in the early 1980s, when the Senate Foreign Relations Committee chairman, Charles Percy, ran afoul of Aipac. archived recording (charles percy) The special relationship between our peoples should not be put at risk by unilateral Israeli actions taken without regard to the interests of the United States in strengthening regional security against external threats and advancing the peace process. sheryl gay stolberg Paul Simon — not the singer Paul Simon, but the former senator — revealed in his autobiography that he was approached by what he said was a nationally respected Jewish leader from Chicago, who had been a board member of Aipac, to run against Percy. And Aipac members mobilized on behalf of Paul Simon. And lo and behold — archived recording They’ve done an enormous job of corrupting the American democratic process. sheryl gay stolberg — Charles Percy was involuntarily retired, and Paul Simon was the next senator from Illinois. archived recording In recent years, Aipac and the pro-Israel PACs have helped defeat, among others, congressman Paul Findley and Pete McCloskey, senators Harrison Schmitt of New Mexico, Walter Huddleston of Kentucky and Chuck Percy of Illinois. jonathan weisman And whether they meant to or not, in their narrowing focus on Israel, these mainline Jewish organizations like Aipac and the American Jewish Committee spread the notion and really inculcated the notion in the American Jewish community that Israel is central to its identity. You start seeing banners in front of synagogues saying, we stand with Israel. Israel becomes much more powerful in the American Jewish consciousness than it had been for much of its existence. And as groups like Aipac become more powerful, it becomes much more difficult to criticize Israeli government policy, because its mission is to represent the views of the Israeli government. Therefore, criticism of Israeli government policy becomes criticism of Israel itself. michael barbaro And does that mean that criticism of Israeli government policy is criticism of Jews? jonathan weisman It’s like a mathematical formula, you know? A equals B equal C. So if criticism of Israeli government policy is criticism of Israel itself, and American Judaism is identified with Israel, ergo, criticism of American Israeli policy starts looking like criticism of Judaism. Then we’re in delicate territory. archived recording (bill clinton) Ever since Harry Truman first recognized Israel, every American president has worked for peace between Israel and her neighbors. Now, the efforts of all who have labored before us bring us to this moment. archived recording The Israeli and the Palestinian peoples who fought each other for almost a century have agreed to move decisively on the path of dialogue, understanding and cooperation. The protests evolved from boys throwing rocks and people marching to fighters attacking Israeli soldiers and military targets. The future of Israeli-P.L.O. peace talks has once again been thrown into question, this time by a suicide bombing that ripped through two buses crammed with rush-hour commuters and university students in Jerusalem. Hundreds of Israelis gathered at the site to express their outrage and demonstrate against the government’s peace policy. Tel Aviv residents were forced to run for cover as Palestinian militants fired rockets at the Israeli city for a second day running. This just one of 160 airstrikes by the Israeli military on Gaza overnight and into this morning. archived recording (ariel sharon) Palestinian terror led by the Palestinian Authority, they believe that they will break our nation, but they failed. sheryl gay stolberg Things start to change in the early- to mid-2000s because of something that happens in Israeli politics. archived recording (ariel sharon) Palestinian Authority leadership bring destruction to their own people. sheryl gay stolberg The rise of right-wing leaders like Ariel Sharon. archived recording (ariel sharon) Terror is terror, and there is no compromise with terror. And terror should be fought. sheryl gay stolberg And Benjamin Netanyahu. archived recording (benjamin netanyahu) Terrorism is a war crime. And when we say that there has to be a remedy, an understanding, an exculpation, a justification, understand these people, you are saying understand war criminals. We will never understand these war criminals. We will always fight them. sheryl gay stolberg Both adopted very expansionist policies, expanding settlements on the occupied West Bank. archived recording (ariel sharon) All those communities that we build, they are not the obstacle to peace. They’re an obstacle to war. archived recording (benjamin netanyahu) We are being told that our building of these flats is a declaration of war. What an inversion of language, what a perversion of the basic concepts that guide our civilization. sheryl gay stolberg And Israel started to look like the aggressor. Images of Palestinian youths throwing rocks and Israeli soldiers responding with bullets started to challenge the Democratic notion of Israel as this kind of aspiring state that was committed to social justice. archived recording (barack obama) Good afternoon. I am honored to be in the timeless city of Cairo. jonathan weisman And I would say that the real change came with the presidency of Barack Obama. archived recording (barack obama) We meet at a time of great tension between the United States and Muslims around the world. jonathan weisman Obama comes in idealistic. He’s been promising to be a great peacemaker, a great foreign policy advocate. He goes, gives his speech in Egypt. archived recording (barack obama) I’ve come here to Cairo to seek a new beginning between the United States and Muslims around the world. jonathan weisman To say that he wants a restart of American Muslim affairs. archived recording (barack obama) One based upon the truth that America and Islam are not exclusive, and need not be in competition. jonathan weisman And then he turns to Israel. archived recording (barack obama) America’s strong bonds with Israel are well-known. This bond is unbreakable. It is time for us to act on what everyone knows to be true. jonathan weisman And he says we have talked about a two-state solution for now more than a decade. It’s time to get real. archived recording (barack obama) Too many tears have been shed. Too much blood has been shed. All of us have a responsibility to work for the day when the mothers of Israelis and Palestinians can see their children grow up without fear. jonathan weisman And then he really steps in it when he says, the two-state solution must be predicated at least on the original 1948 borders with Israel. archived recording (barack obama) The United States does not accept the legitimacy of continued Israeli settlements. jonathan weisman It didn’t even seem like a radical thing to say, but there was a huge blowback from the Israeli political apparatus, Aipac, and its supporters — archived recording I was baffled by this statement, because it doesn’t reflect American values. jonathan weisman — who said that he had gone too far. archived recording (barack obama) Today, after two years of negotiations — jonathan weisman That really crescendoed with the Iran deal. archived recording (barack obama) A comprehensive long-term deal with Iran that will prevent it from obtaining a nuclear weapon. jonathan weisman Netanyahu decided this was an existential moment for Israel. He needed to stop it. archived recording (benjamin netanyahu) This deal doesn’t make peace more likely. It makes war more likely. jonathan weisman At that point, Netanyahu breaks with Obama, and he openly courts Republicans. archived recording (benjamin netanyahu) My friends, I’m deeply humbled by the opportunity to speak before the most important legislative body in the world, the U.S. Congress. jonathan weisman And he actually arranges with the Republican speaker of the House, John Boehner, to address a joint session of Congress on the Iran deal — archived recording (benjamin netanyahu) I feel a profound obligation to speak to you about an issue that could well threaten the survival of my country and the future of my people. jonathan weisman — without consulting Obama. archived recording (benjamin netanyahu) Listen to Hassan Nasrallah, the leader of Hezbollah, Iran’s chief terrorist proxy. He said, if all the Jews gather in Israel, it will save us the trouble of chasing them down around the world. jonathan weisman There was a real sense at that point where you had to choose — are you with Barack Obama, are you with Netanyahu? And boy, people were really torn. And it’s at this point where critics of Obama begin calling him an anti-Semite. archived recording This is an anti-Israel administration. It’s the first administration in American history that is obviously anti-Israel. It’s borderline a Jew-hating administration. jonathan weisman This begins to take root especially in the hard right of the United States, where suddenly, the epithet anti-Semite applies to a liberal Democrat. That is a very critical moment in the politics of anti-Semitism. michael barbaro And what is the Democratic response to this shifting dynamic that you’re describing? sheryl gay stolberg Democrats in Congress were still almost universally supportive of Israel. Uneasy, yes, but not with their votes. Not voting against military aid for Israel. The fracturing was occurring, I think, more at the grassroots than it was on Capitol Hill. archived recording Free, free Palestine! Free, free Palestine! Protesters called for an end to Israel’s violence in the occupied West Bank and the besieged Gaza Strip — jonathan weisman Remember, Barack Obama’s coalition, the umbrella that elected Obama, the first black president of the United States, includes many, many more immigrants. And many of those are sympathetic to the Palestinian cause. Many of those immigrants are Arab themselves. And this creates a real dilemma. sheryl gay stolberg And part of that progressive shift is really reflected by the emergence of J Street. archived recording J Street says it’s America’s new pro-Israel lobby. Pro-Israel, pro-peace. Pro-Israel, pro-peace. Pro-peace, pro-Israel. Our mantra is a pro-peace, pro-Israel — sheryl gay stolberg As opposed to Aipac, which has as its mission strengthening and promoting American-Israeli ties, J Street is dedicated to a two-state solution and a democratic Israel with equal rights and human rights for all people. michael barbaro And is there a politician who embodies the J Street approach to Israel? sheryl gay stolberg I would have to say the best known is Bernie Sanders. archived recording (bernie sanders) Overwhelmingly, the United States, time and time again, has looked aside when Israel has done some bad things. jonathan weisman Bernie Sanders, who was actually raised Jewish, becomes the first openly critical American politician to really be willing to challenge Israel on the campaign trail. archived recording (bernie sanders) Israel was subjected to terrorist attacks, has every right in the world to destroy terrorism. But we had in the Gaza area — not a very large area — some 10,000 civilians who were wounded, and some 1,500 who were killed. Was that a disproportionate attack? The answer is, I believe it was. And let me say something else — jonathan weisman So fast forward from 2016 to the very next election, 2018. archived recording Rashida Tlaib is a democratic socialist who supports the Palestinian right of return and a one-state solution. She also supports “Medicare for all,” a $15 minimum wage and abolishing ICE. jonathan weisman Now a group of Democrats — it’s not the dominant group of Democrats, but a very vocal group of Democrats — who are running on the Bernie Sanders platform. These people are willing to criticize Israel — archived recording And so when you get into Congress, will you vote against U.S. military aid for Israel? archived recording (rashida tlaib) Absolutely, if — jonathan weisman And they include the immigrants that had so powered the Obama umbrella. And those include Rashida Tlaib and Ilhan Omar, a Somali refugee running for Congress in Minneapolis. archived recording (rashida tlaib) I won! [CHEERING] archived recording Ra-shi-da! Ra-shi-da! sheryl gay stolberg Both Omar and Tlaib wind up getting elected. archived recording Elected Ilhan Omar, the nation’s first Somali-American lawmaker. archived recording (ilhan omar) I talked about what my win what have meant for that eight-year-old girl in that refugee camp. jonathan weisman And now, they have a microphone bigger than any microphone Israel critics have ever seen. sheryl gay stolberg So people were watching for their views on Israel. archived recording Joining us now is Congresswoman Ilhan Omar. To remind people what you tweeted about Israel in 2012 during the offensive in Gaza, you wrote, “Israel has hypnotized the world, may Allah awaken the people and help them see the evil doings of Israel.” jonathan weisman And suddenly, people are looking at past things that they had said about Israel. archived recording (ilhan omar) Oh, that’s really a regrettable way of expressing that. I don’t know how my comments would be offensive to Jewish Americans. My comments precisely are addressing what was happening during the Gaza war. sheryl gay stolberg That phrasing, that Israel had hypnotized the world, really kind of plays into these centuries-old anti-Semitic tropes of Jews trying to control the world, of the sort of manipulative, behind-the-scenes Jew working some kind of magic to influence events. jonathan weisman The Republicans are looking as well, and they want to exploit what could be these fledgling cracks between Jews and the Democratic Party. archived recording The 116th Congress gaveled in for its first session on Thursday with lawmakers from both congressional branches eager to set their party’s agenda. jonathan weisman And the very first bill, S.1, in the Senate — archived recording The first bill up for consideration isn’t to reopen the government — jonathan weisman — is a Middle East policy bill that allows the punishment of any company that goes along with the boycotting or sanctioning of Israel. archived recording For those who are not familiar with B.D.S., it’s boycott, divestment and sanction. It is an effort by and large to punish Israel. jonathan weisman It’s an anti-B.D.S. provision. archived recording By convincing companies, international companies and others to boycott doing business with Israel or Israeli entities, to divest of investments in Israel or Israeli entities — jonathan weisman They know that they are doing this to try to divide Democrats and Jews, and to try to provoke Ilhan Omar and Rashida Tlaib. archived recording (ilhan omar) I don’t want to be part of a vote that limits the ability for people to fight towards that justice and peace. sheryl gay stolberg They are the only two members of Congress who are openly supporting the boycott movement. archived recording (rashida tlaib) I cannot imagine our country not having the right to economic boycott. jonathan weisman And lo and behold, Rashida Tlaib falls right into it. archived recording Just a few days after her expletive-laden vow to impeach President Trump, Congresswoman Rashida Tlaib’s choice of words is making headlines again — this time, for what some are calling an anti-Semitic smear. jonathan weisman She actually sends out a tweet suggesting that supporters of this anti-B.D.S. provision don’t know what country they’re representing. sheryl gay stolberg Now even some Democrats are getting uneasy. archived recording (chuck schumer) We must continue to stand firm against the profoundly biased campaign to delegitimize the state of Israel through boycotts, divestment, and sanctions. [APPLAUSE] While Iran publicly executes its citizens, Turkey jails its journalists, scores of Arab nations punish homosexuality with imprisonment and torture, why does B.D.S. single Israel out alone for condemnation? When the world treats everybody one way and the Jew or the Jewish state another way, there is only one word for it: anti-Semitism. Let us call out the B.D.S. movement for what it is. sheryl gay stolberg And then, last week — archived recording A freshman lawmaker is taking heat for remarks that critics are calling anti-Semitic. Congresswoman Ilhan Omar, in just her seventh week in office, again enduring sharp backlash after challenging support for Israel. jonathan weisman Ilhan Omar tweets — archived recording In a tweet, Minnesota Democratic congresswoman Ilhan Omar suggested support for Israel is fueled by money. jonathan weisman Quote, “It’s all about the Benjamins baby.” archived recording There has been swift and fiery response. This cannot sustain itself. It’s unacceptable in this country. sheryl gay stolberg Now it’s like a crisis within the Democratic Party. archived recording They say that they condemn what she has said. sheryl gay stolberg Lawmakers are issuing statements. archived recording Congresswoman Omar’s use of anti-Semitic tropes and prejudicial accusations about Israel’s supporters is deeply offensive. We condemn these remarks, and we call upon Congresswoman Omar to immediately apologize. sheryl gay stolberg She needs to apologize. This is blatant anti-Semitism. archived recording A newly elected member of Congress is apologizing for criticizing supporters of Israel after a blast from her own party leadership. sheryl gay stolberg And that’s what she does. She apologizes. archived recording Representative Omar apologized today for the anti-Semitic tweet, saying she is, quote, “listening and learning.” Writing, quote, “My intention is never to offend my constituents or Jewish Americans as a whole. This is why I unequivocally apologize.” michael barbaro And Jonathan, what do you make of that? What is inside of these charges against these two Democrats of having trafficked in anti-Semitic tropes? jonathan weisman Well, on the one hand, the language itself sounds anti-Semitic. But when is anti-Israel sentiment or anti-Zionist sentiment simply anti-Semitic? And that is a very difficult, difficult line to draw. Some people think that anti-Zionism itself, opposing a Jewish state, is by definition anti-Semitic. But other people would say, no, you’re allowed to have foreign policy views, even foreign policy views that some people find reprehensible, without being accused of bigotry. And that, hey, you know, Ilhan Omar might really, really not like the Jewish state or what the Jewish state does in the Middle East, but that doesn’t mean that she hates the Jewish people. And an apparatus has existed in Washington now for decades that has pulled both parties into the view that Israel is sacrosanct, and that criticism of Israel is tantamount to criticism of Jews. michael barbaro Sheryl, what’s fascinating about this is that the Democratic Party, which, as you explained, championed Israel from the beginning, all the way back to 1948, is now the party fending off charges of anti-Semitism and the party struggling with questions around how deep its support for Israel goes, and how to handle this growing wing of its members who want a different approach, who are unhappy with Israel and its policies and very willing to publicly declare that. sheryl gay stolberg I think that’s right. I think that Tlaib and Omar are the edge of the next wave. So right now, most Democrats on Capitol Hill are still in lockstep with Israel. But their constituents are not. And that means that the Democratic Party is going to kind of have to have a reckoning about Israel. I asked the Democratic caucus chair, Hakeem Jeffries, whether or not Omar’s underlying point that we need to have a more open conversation about Israel is something that Democrats would entertain. And he was very strident in his answer to me that the Democratic Party stands with Israel. It was really the straight party line answer. But it’s easy to see down the road that there are going to be more Rashidas and Ilhans in the future. And progressives, who are a rising force within the party, are trying to force that discussion, and many young Jews are trying to force that discussion. So at a certain point, Democrats can’t avoid this conversation. And if you look at it over the long term, it really could herald the breaking of the longstanding bond between Democrats and Israel. We’re not there yet, but you can see it from here. Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device: Via Apple Podcasts | Via RadioPublic | Via Stitcher In the weeks since they’ve taken office, two freshman Democrats — Representatives Ilhan Omar and Rashida Tlaib — have been engulfed in controversy over their criticisms of Israel. We look at how, after decades of unwavering commitment to Israel, the Democratic Party is now dealing with charges of anti-Semitism. On today’s episode: Sheryl Gay Stolberg, who covers Congress for The New York Times. Jonathan Weisman, the deputy Washington editor of The Times. Background reading: The debate over recent comments by Ms. Omar and Ms. Tlaib has exposed a growing generational divide in views on Israel within the Democratic Party. Republicans have sought to exploit these divisions by painting the two freshman Democrats as anti-Semites, but Democrats say Republicans are being hypocritical. In an Op-Ed, Jonathan Weisman writes that American and Israeli Jews may be heading toward a breaking point. Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Follow Michael Barbaro on Twitter: @mikiebarb. And if you’re interested in advertising with “The Daily,” write to us at thedaily-ads@nytimes.com. Sheryl Gay Stolberg and Jonathan Weisman contributed reporting. “The Democrats and Israel” was produced by Andy Mills, Jessica Cheung and Paige Cowett, and edited by Lisa Tobin. “The Daily” is produced by Theo Balcomb, Annie Brown, Jessica Cheung, Lynsea Garrison, Michael Simon Johnson, Andy Mills, Neena Pathak, Rachel Quester, Ike Sriskandarajah, Clare Toeniskoetter, Jonathan Wolfe and Alexandra Leigh Young, and edited by Larissa Anderson, Paige Cowett and Wendy Dorr. Lisa Tobin is our executive producer. Samantha Henig is our editorial director. Brad Fisher is our technical manager. Chris Wood is our sound engineer. Our theme music is by Jim Brunberg and Ben Landsverk of Wonderly.

transcript Hosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Andy Mills, Jessica Cheung and Paige Cowett, and edited by Lisa Tobin The Democratic Party has a long history of staunchly supporting Israel, but some new lawmakers are raising questions about the future of this stance. Tuesday, February 19th, 2019 michael barbaro From The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today: In the weeks since they’ve taken office, two freshman Democrats, Ilhan Omar and Rashida Tlaib have been engulfed in controversy over their criticisms of Israel. My colleagues Sheryl Gay Stolberg and Jonathan Weisman on how, after decades of unwavering commitment to Israel, the Democratic Party is now dealing with charges of anti-Semitism. It’s Tuesday, February 19. archived recording New York, Friday, May 14, 1948. The United Nations General Assembly is in special session. sheryl gay stolberg To understand the long relationship between Democrats and Israel — archived recording A new nation is being born. sheryl gay stolberg You really have to go back to the founding of the Jewish state. archived recording Israel, they have named their state. This is what they have waited for. This is what they have prayed for. archived recording (harry truman) It is my attitude that the American government couldn’t stand idly by while the victims of Hitler’s madness are not allowed to build new lives. sheryl gay stolberg Harry Truman, who was a Democrat, was the president who recognized Israel. archived recording (harry truman) Hitler had been murdering Jews right and left. It’s estimated that he killed six million Jews, burned most of them up in furnaces. It was a horrible thing. I saw it. And I dream about it even to this day. And on that account, the Jews needed someplace where they could go. jonathan weisman So it was associated with a Democrat. And Democrats felt a real affinity for the state of Israel. archived recording The concept of the kibbutz is relatively simple to explain. Everyone shares everything they have, they work together, and they live together. The laborer and the manager have the same wages. sheryl gay stolberg The alliance was one of values. Israel was a very aspirational state. It was a state about social justice, about a socialist way of thinking — giving an oppressed people a homeland. So all of those things really appealed to Democrats, who envisioned themselves as the fighters for oppressed people. archived recording We are in the midst of a very critical situation. We should therefore carefully avoid approaching international problems on an emotional basis. jonathan weisman Whereas Republicans were much more pragmatic and realpolitik — sheryl gay stolberg Republicans’ social policy views and foreign policy views did not really align with the Jewish state. Republicans certainly did not espouse socialism. And on the foreign policy side, Israel’s establishment in the middle of the Arab world had foreign policy pragmatists within the Republican Party very concerned that support for Israel would undermine America’s ties with important oil-producing states like Saudi Arabia. jonathan weisman And they saw Israel and the backing of Israel as a real complication in that. michael barbaro And was skepticism of Israel at this moment seen as anti-Semitic? jonathan weisman Not really. And that is partly because American Jews were not absolutely sold on the notion of Zionism and an Israeli state. For the longest time, American Judaism really evolved as its own religion. American Jews decided that the United States, this pluralistic, open, accepting society, was the new Zion. They were going to put their roots down in America. Then the politics of Israel inside the United States really began to shift at the 1973 Yom Kippur War. archived recording At 2 p.m., the armies of Egypt and Syria crossed the border. jonathan weisman It was a truly surprise invasion by the Arab countries. archived recording While the nation of Israel observed Yom Kippur, the combined military forces of Egypt and Syria launched a simultaneous and surprise attack on Israel’s southern and northern borders. jonathan weisman In that war, Israel almost was wiped off the map. archived recording The Israelis are moving in force across the canal in the central sector. They’re having to run — jonathan weisman The Israelis were backed against the wall. But — archived recording This people, alone as it is, surrounded as it is by enemies, has decided to live. jonathan weisman They battled their way out. archived recording This is not a people that can give in. jonathan weisman Three years after the Yom Kippur War came another major moment for American politics in Israel, and that was the raid on Entebbe. archived recording Israel is keeping some of the details secret. But it’s known that three American made transports flew 2,500 miles to Uganda, carrying Israeli commandos armed and ready for combat. After an Air France plane carrying largely Jewish passengers was hijacked by a Palestinian group on its way from Tel Aviv to Paris. jonathan weisman This Israeli commando force lands in this airport in Uganda and rescues a hijacked airplane — archived recording In 36 minutes, they killed seven hijackers and 20 Ugandan soldiers. Then they helped the hostages to the waiting planes and took off for Nairobi in Kenya. jonathan weisman — with almost no loss of life, and takes these people, whisks them away. They suddenly seemed like, wow, they’ve got it together. sheryl gay stolberg So you had kind of this new narrative develop of Israeli as this sort of small but mighty power in the Middle East. And I think that was very attractive to members of both parties in the United States. jonathan weisman Republicans started seeing a country of real military strength and might, and a really smart force in a very dangerous part of the world. Democrats saw a country that was still beleaguered, but willing to fight back. archived recording Tonight, Jesus of Nazareth passes by. jonathan weisman And then — archived recording Tonight may be the last time that Jesus will ever pass your way again. jonathan weisman This moment also came along with the rise of evangelical Christianity. archived recording (SINGING) Born again, free from sin — If we could only come to the place of all-out commitment, we could turn the world upside down and start a counterrevolution, a spiritual revolution following the Christian flag. sheryl gay stolberg Who were very, very supportive of Israel. archived recording Now God has called this in the Bible the navel of the earth — now, a navel is sort of like the place where a child is attached to his mother. And God used this as the place where he entered into human history. sheryl gay stolberg They believed that the Jews were the rightful inheritors of the land. archived recording This has been the center of God’s activity and his revelation in the earth. And that’s why all the world, the United Nations and the nations of the earth, one day, are going to come and move against Israel. jonathan weisman This fits perfectly with the evangelical theology in which the Jews will once again gather in Zion, and that will herald the second coming of Jesus Christ, the rapture and the beginning of the end of the world. archived recording We have a Jewish religion, and therefore, we feel that the Jews are our brothers and sisters. We are one in the family of God. (SINGING) Makes me shout, there’s no doubt, I know I’m born again. jonathan weisman All of that fits so perfectly, and the Israeli government plays it to a hilt. archived recording [SPEAKING HEBREW] jonathan weisman In 1981, when the Israelis bombed a fledgling nuclear reactor in Baghdad — archived recording It was simple logic. We decided to act now before it is too late. jonathan weisman One of the very first calls that Menachem Begin made to get support was to Jerry Falwell. michael barbaro The prime minister of Israel, before launching an attack on an Israeli adversary, calls the leader of an evangelical movement in the U.S. jonathan weisman That is correct. michael barbaro Wow. archived recording (ronald reagan) I have personally followed and supported Israel’s heroic struggle for survival ever since the founding of the state of Israel 34 years ago. sheryl gay stolberg And then it was during the Reagan administration where we saw the cementing of the special relationship across party lines. archived recording (ronald reagan) America’s commitment to the security of Israel is ironclad. And I might add, so is mine. jonathan weisman And coinciding with the emergence of this bipartisan support for Israel, there’s the American Israel Public Affairs Committee. sheryl gay stolberg Aipac. archived recording There are very few lobbies working the corners of Capitol Hill with as much cloud as Aipac, the American Israel Public Affairs Committee. jonathan weisman Which exists by definition to support the positions of the state of Israel. archived recording They’re the people who tell the Congress which legislation affecting Israel they like and which they don’t. sheryl gay stolberg And it also runs these very well-known trips to Israel for members of Congress. archived recording These trips give new and returning legislators the opportunity to see firsthand Israel’s security challenges. One powerful aspect of these trips is that members from both parties spend time in Israel together. jonathan weisman And it’s almost like a rite of initiation. When you become a member of Congress, one of the first things that happens is Aipac reaches out to you and says, why don’t you come on this educational trip that we’re running to Israel. And so you can see this kind of multiplier effect, in a way, across the country. archived recording There are many who charge that Aipac, with its sights set only on Israel, is just too demanding of U.S. politicians. sheryl gay stolberg Candidates who don’t support that vision — archived recording (charles percy) Practically every congressman and senator says his prayers to the Aipac lobby. sheryl gay stolberg — risks seeing people who are committed to Aipac mobilize against them. A very good example came out of Illinois in the early 1980s, when the Senate Foreign Relations Committee chairman, Charles Percy, ran afoul of Aipac. archived recording (charles percy) The special relationship between our peoples should not be put at risk by unilateral Israeli actions taken without regard to the interests of the United States in strengthening regional security against external threats and advancing the peace process. sheryl gay stolberg Paul Simon — not the singer Paul Simon, but the former senator — revealed in his autobiography that he was approached by what he said was a nationally respected Jewish leader from Chicago, who had been a board member of Aipac, to run against Percy. And Aipac members mobilized on behalf of Paul Simon. And lo and behold — archived recording They’ve done an enormous job of corrupting the American democratic process. sheryl gay stolberg — Charles Percy was involuntarily retired, and Paul Simon was the next senator from Illinois. archived recording In recent years, Aipac and the pro-Israel PACs have helped defeat, among others, congressman Paul Findley and Pete McCloskey, senators Harrison Schmitt of New Mexico, Walter Huddleston of Kentucky and Chuck Percy of Illinois. jonathan weisman And whether they meant to or not, in their narrowing focus on Israel, these mainline Jewish organizations like Aipac and the American Jewish Committee spread the notion and really inculcated the notion in the American Jewish community that Israel is central to its identity. You start seeing banners in front of synagogues saying, we stand with Israel. Israel becomes much more powerful in the American Jewish consciousness than it had been for much of its existence. And as groups like Aipac become more powerful, it becomes much more difficult to criticize Israeli government policy, because its mission is to represent the views of the Israeli government. Therefore, criticism of Israeli government policy becomes criticism of Israel itself. michael barbaro And does that mean that criticism of Israeli government policy is criticism of Jews? jonathan weisman It’s like a mathematical formula, you know? A equals B equal C. So if criticism of Israeli government policy is criticism of Israel itself, and American Judaism is identified with Israel, ergo, criticism of American Israeli policy starts looking like criticism of Judaism. Then we’re in delicate territory. archived recording (bill clinton) Ever since Harry Truman first recognized Israel, every American president has worked for peace between Israel and her neighbors. Now, the efforts of all who have labored before us bring us to this moment. archived recording The Israeli and the Palestinian peoples who fought each other for almost a century have agreed to move decisively on the path of dialogue, understanding and cooperation. The protests evolved from boys throwing rocks and people marching to fighters attacking Israeli soldiers and military targets. The future of Israeli-P.L.O. peace talks has once again been thrown into question, this time by a suicide bombing that ripped through two buses crammed with rush-hour commuters and university students in Jerusalem. Hundreds of Israelis gathered at the site to express their outrage and demonstrate against the government’s peace policy. Tel Aviv residents were forced to run for cover as Palestinian militants fired rockets at the Israeli city for a second day running. This just one of 160 airstrikes by the Israeli military on Gaza overnight and into this morning. archived recording (ariel sharon) Palestinian terror led by the Palestinian Authority, they believe that they will break our nation, but they failed. sheryl gay stolberg Things start to change in the early- to mid-2000s because of something that happens in Israeli politics. archived recording (ariel sharon) Palestinian Authority leadership bring destruction to their own people. sheryl gay stolberg The rise of right-wing leaders like Ariel Sharon. archived recording (ariel sharon) Terror is terror, and there is no compromise with terror. And terror should be fought. sheryl gay stolberg And Benjamin Netanyahu. archived recording (benjamin netanyahu) Terrorism is a war crime. And when we say that there has to be a remedy, an understanding, an exculpation, a justification, understand these people, you are saying understand war criminals. We will never understand these war criminals. We will always fight them. sheryl gay stolberg Both adopted very expansionist policies, expanding settlements on the occupied West Bank. archived recording (ariel sharon) All those communities that we build, they are not the obstacle to peace. They’re an obstacle to war. archived recording (benjamin netanyahu) We are being told that our building of these flats is a declaration of war. What an inversion of language, what a perversion of the basic concepts that guide our civilization. sheryl gay stolberg And Israel started to look like the aggressor. Images of Palestinian youths throwing rocks and Israeli soldiers responding with bullets started to challenge the Democratic notion of Israel as this kind of aspiring state that was committed to social justice. archived recording (barack obama) Good afternoon. I am honored to be in the timeless city of Cairo. jonathan weisman And I would say that the real change came with the presidency of Barack Obama. archived recording (barack obama) We meet at a time of great tension between the United States and Muslims around the world. jonathan weisman Obama comes in idealistic. He’s been promising to be a great peacemaker, a great foreign policy advocate. He goes, gives his speech in Egypt. archived recording (barack obama) I’ve come here to Cairo to seek a new beginning between the United States and Muslims around the world. jonathan weisman To say that he wants a restart of American Muslim affairs. archived recording (barack obama) One based upon the truth that America and Islam are not exclusive, and need not be in competition. jonathan weisman And then he turns to Israel. archived recording (barack obama) America’s strong bonds with Israel are well-known. This bond is unbreakable. It is time for us to act on what everyone knows to be true. jonathan weisman And he says we have talked about a two-state solution for now more than a decade. It’s time to get real. archived recording (barack obama) Too many tears have been shed. Too much blood has been shed. All of us have a responsibility to work for the day when the mothers of Israelis and Palestinians can see their children grow up without fear. jonathan weisman And then he really steps in it when he says, the two-state solution must be predicated at least on the original 1948 borders with Israel. archived recording (barack obama) The United States does not accept the legitimacy of continued Israeli settlements. jonathan weisman It didn’t even seem like a radical thing to say, but there was a huge blowback from the Israeli political apparatus, Aipac, and its supporters — archived recording I was baffled by this statement, because it doesn’t reflect American values. jonathan weisman — who said that he had gone too far. archived recording (barack obama) Today, after two years of negotiations — jonathan weisman That really crescendoed with the Iran deal. archived recording (barack obama) A comprehensive long-term deal with Iran that will prevent it from obtaining a nuclear weapon. jonathan weisman Netanyahu decided this was an existential moment for Israel. He needed to stop it. archived recording (benjamin netanyahu) This deal doesn’t make peace more likely. It makes war more likely. jonathan weisman At that point, Netanyahu breaks with Obama, and he openly courts Republicans. archived recording (benjamin netanyahu) My friends, I’m deeply humbled by the opportunity to speak before the most important legislative body in the world, the U.S. Congress. jonathan weisman And he actually arranges with the Republican speaker of the House, John Boehner, to address a joint session of Congress on the Iran deal — archived recording (benjamin netanyahu) I feel a profound obligation to speak to you about an issue that could well threaten the survival of my country and the future of my people. jonathan weisman — without consulting Obama. archived recording (benjamin netanyahu) Listen to Hassan Nasrallah, the leader of Hezbollah, Iran’s chief terrorist proxy. He said, if all the Jews gather in Israel, it will save us the trouble of chasing them down around the world. jonathan weisman There was a real sense at that point where you had to choose — are you with Barack Obama, are you with Netanyahu? And boy, people were really torn. And it’s at this point where critics of Obama begin calling him an anti-Semite. archived recording This is an anti-Israel administration. It’s the first administration in American history that is obviously anti-Israel. It’s borderline a Jew-hating administration. jonathan weisman This begins to take root especially in the hard right of the United States, where suddenly, the epithet anti-Semite applies to a liberal Democrat. That is a very critical moment in the politics of anti-Semitism. michael barbaro And what is the Democratic response to this shifting dynamic that you’re describing? sheryl gay stolberg Democrats in Congress were still almost universally supportive of Israel. Uneasy, yes, but not with their votes. Not voting against military aid for Israel. The fracturing was occurring, I think, more at the grassroots than it was on Capitol Hill. archived recording Free, free Palestine! Free, free Palestine! Protesters called for an end to Israel’s violence in the occupied West Bank and the besieged Gaza Strip — jonathan weisman Remember, Barack Obama’s coalition, the umbrella that elected Obama, the first black president of the United States, includes many, many more immigrants. And many of those are sympathetic to the Palestinian cause. Many of those immigrants are Arab themselves. And this creates a real dilemma. sheryl gay stolberg And part of that progressive shift is really reflected by the emergence of J Street. archived recording J Street says it’s America’s new pro-Israel lobby. Pro-Israel, pro-peace. Pro-Israel, pro-peace. Pro-peace, pro-Israel. Our mantra is a pro-peace, pro-Israel — sheryl gay stolberg As opposed to Aipac, which has as its mission strengthening and promoting American-Israeli ties, J Street is dedicated to a two-state solution and a democratic Israel with equal rights and human rights for all people. michael barbaro And is there a politician who embodies the J Street approach to Israel? sheryl gay stolberg I would have to say the best known is Bernie Sanders. archived recording (bernie sanders) Overwhelmingly, the United States, time and time again, has looked aside when Israel has done some bad things. jonathan weisman Bernie Sanders, who was actually raised Jewish, becomes the first openly critical American politician to really be willing to challenge Israel on the campaign trail. archived recording (bernie sanders) Israel was subjected to terrorist attacks, has every right in the world to destroy terrorism. But we had in the Gaza area — not a very large area — some 10,000 civilians who were wounded, and some 1,500 who were killed. Was that a disproportionate attack? The answer is, I believe it was. And let me say something else — jonathan weisman So fast forward from 2016 to the very next election, 2018. archived recording Rashida Tlaib is a democratic socialist who supports the Palestinian right of return and a one-state solution. She also supports “Medicare for all,” a $15 minimum wage and abolishing ICE. jonathan weisman Now a group of Democrats — it’s not the dominant group of Democrats, but a very vocal group of Democrats — who are running on the Bernie Sanders platform. These people are willing to criticize Israel — archived recording And so when you get into Congress, will you vote against U.S. military aid for Israel? archived recording (rashida tlaib) Absolutely, if — jonathan weisman And they include the immigrants that had so powered the Obama umbrella. And those include Rashida Tlaib and Ilhan Omar, a Somali refugee running for Congress in Minneapolis. archived recording (rashida tlaib) I won! [CHEERING] archived recording Ra-shi-da! Ra-shi-da! sheryl gay stolberg Both Omar and Tlaib wind up getting elected. archived recording Elected Ilhan Omar, the nation’s first Somali-American lawmaker. archived recording (ilhan omar) I talked about what my win what have meant for that eight-year-old girl in that refugee camp. jonathan weisman And now, they have a microphone bigger than any microphone Israel critics have ever seen. sheryl gay stolberg So people were watching for their views on Israel. archived recording Joining us now is Congresswoman Ilhan Omar. To remind people what you tweeted about Israel in 2012 during the offensive in Gaza, you wrote, “Israel has hypnotized the world, may Allah awaken the people and help them see the evil doings of Israel.” jonathan weisman And suddenly, people are looking at past things that they had said about Israel. archived recording (ilhan omar) Oh, that’s really a regrettable way of expressing that. I don’t know how my comments would be offensive to Jewish Americans. My comments precisely are addressing what was happening during the Gaza war. sheryl gay stolberg That phrasing, that Israel had hypnotized the world, really kind of plays into these centuries-old anti-Semitic tropes of Jews trying to control the world, of the sort of manipulative, behind-the-scenes Jew working some kind of magic to influence events. jonathan weisman The Republicans are looking as well, and they want to exploit what could be these fledgling cracks between Jews and the Democratic Party. archived recording The 116th Congress gaveled in for its first session on Thursday with lawmakers from both congressional branches eager to set their party’s agenda. jonathan weisman And the very first bill, S.1, in the Senate — archived recording The first bill up for consideration isn’t to reopen the government — jonathan weisman — is a Middle East policy bill that allows the punishment of any company that goes along with the boycotting or sanctioning of Israel. archived recording For those who are not familiar with B.D.S., it’s boycott, divestment and sanction. It is an effort by and large to punish Israel. jonathan weisman It’s an anti-B.D.S. provision. archived recording By convincing companies, international companies and others to boycott doing business with Israel or Israeli entities, to divest of investments in Israel or Israeli entities — jonathan weisman They know that they are doing this to try to divide Democrats and Jews, and to try to provoke Ilhan Omar and Rashida Tlaib. archived recording (ilhan omar) I don’t want to be part of a vote that limits the ability for people to fight towards that justice and peace. sheryl gay stolberg They are the only two members of Congress who are openly supporting the boycott movement. archived recording (rashida tlaib) I cannot imagine our country not having the right to economic boycott. jonathan weisman And lo and behold, Rashida Tlaib falls right into it. archived recording Just a few days after her expletive-laden vow to impeach President Trump, Congresswoman Rashida Tlaib’s choice of words is making headlines again — this time, for what some are calling an anti-Semitic smear. jonathan weisman She actually sends out a tweet suggesting that supporters of this anti-B.D.S. provision don’t know what country they’re representing. sheryl gay stolberg Now even some Democrats are getting uneasy. archived recording (chuck schumer) We must continue to stand firm against the profoundly biased campaign to delegitimize the state of Israel through boycotts, divestment, and sanctions. [APPLAUSE] While Iran publicly executes its citizens, Turkey jails its journalists, scores of Arab nations punish homosexuality with imprisonment and torture, why does B.D.S. single Israel out alone for condemnation? When the world treats everybody one way and the Jew or the Jewish state another way, there is only one word for it: anti-Semitism. Let us call out the B.D.S. movement for what it is. sheryl gay stolberg And then, last week — archived recording A freshman lawmaker is taking heat for remarks that critics are calling anti-Semitic. Congresswoman Ilhan Omar, in just her seventh week in office, again enduring sharp backlash after challenging support for Israel. jonathan weisman Ilhan Omar tweets — archived recording In a tweet, Minnesota Democratic congresswoman Ilhan Omar suggested support for Israel is fueled by money. jonathan weisman Quote, “It’s all about the Benjamins baby.” archived recording There has been swift and fiery response. This cannot sustain itself. It’s unacceptable in this country. sheryl gay stolberg Now it’s like a crisis within the Democratic Party. archived recording They say that they condemn what she has said. sheryl gay stolberg Lawmakers are issuing statements. archived recording Congresswoman Omar’s use of anti-Semitic tropes and prejudicial accusations about Israel’s supporters is deeply offensive. We condemn these remarks, and we call upon Congresswoman Omar to immediately apologize. sheryl gay stolberg She needs to apologize. This is blatant anti-Semitism. archived recording A newly elected member of Congress is apologizing for criticizing supporters of Israel after a blast from her own party leadership. sheryl gay stolberg And that’s what she does. She apologizes. archived recording Representative Omar apologized today for the anti-Semitic tweet, saying she is, quote, “listening and learning.” Writing, quote, “My intention is never to offend my constituents or Jewish Americans as a whole. This is why I unequivocally apologize.” michael barbaro And Jonathan, what do you make of that? What is inside of these charges against these two Democrats of having trafficked in anti-Semitic tropes? jonathan weisman Well, on the one hand, the language itself sounds anti-Semitic. But when is anti-Israel sentiment or anti-Zionist sentiment simply anti-Semitic? And that is a very difficult, difficult line to draw. Some people think that anti-Zionism itself, opposing a Jewish state, is by definition anti-Semitic. But other people would say, no, you’re allowed to have foreign policy views, even foreign policy views that some people find reprehensible, without being accused of bigotry. And that, hey, you know, Ilhan Omar might really, really not like the Jewish state or what the Jewish state does in the Middle East, but that doesn’t mean that she hates the Jewish people. And an apparatus has existed in Washington now for decades that has pulled both parties into the view that Israel is sacrosanct, and that criticism of Israel is tantamount to criticism of Jews. michael barbaro Sheryl, what’s fascinating about this is that the Democratic Party, which, as you explained, championed Israel from the beginning, all the way back to 1948, is now the party fending off charges of anti-Semitism and the party struggling with questions around how deep its support for Israel goes, and how to handle this growing wing of its members who want a different approach, who are unhappy with Israel and its policies and very willing to publicly declare that. sheryl gay stolberg I think that’s right. I think that Tlaib and Omar are the edge of the next wave. So right now, most Democrats on Capitol Hill are still in lockstep with Israel. But their constituents are not. And that means that the Democratic Party is going to kind of have to have a reckoning about Israel. I asked the Democratic caucus chair, Hakeem Jeffries, whether or not Omar’s underlying point that we need to have a more open conversation about Israel is something that Democrats would entertain. And he was very strident in his answer to me that the Democratic Party stands with Israel. It was really the straight party line answer. But it’s easy to see down the road that there are going to be more Rashidas and Ilhans in the future. And progressives, who are a rising force within the party, are trying to force that discussion, and many young Jews are trying to force that discussion. So at a certain point, Democrats can’t avoid this conversation. And if you look at it over the long term, it really could herald the breaking of the longstanding bond between Democrats and Israel. We’re not there yet, but you can see it from here. Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device: Via Apple Podcasts | Via RadioPublic | Via Stitcher In the weeks since they’ve taken office, two freshman Democrats — Representatives Ilhan Omar and Rashida Tlaib — have been engulfed in controversy over their criticisms of Israel. We look at how, after decades of unwavering commitment to Israel, the Democratic Party is now dealing with charges of anti-Semitism. On today’s episode: Sheryl Gay Stolberg, who covers Congress for The New York Times. Jonathan Weisman, the deputy Washington editor of The Times. Background reading: The debate over recent comments by Ms. Omar and Ms. Tlaib has exposed a growing generational divide in views on Israel within the Democratic Party. Republicans have sought to exploit these divisions by painting the two freshman Democrats as anti-Semites, but Democrats say Republicans are being hypocritical. In an Op-Ed, Jonathan Weisman writes that American and Israeli Jews may be heading toward a breaking point. Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Follow Michael Barbaro on Twitter: @mikiebarb. And if you’re interested in advertising with “The Daily,” write to us at thedaily-ads@nytimes.com. Sheryl Gay Stolberg and Jonathan Weisman contributed reporting. “The Democrats and Israel” was produced by Andy Mills, Jessica Cheung and Paige Cowett, and edited by Lisa Tobin. “The Daily” is produced by Theo Balcomb, Annie Brown, Jessica Cheung, Lynsea Garrison, Michael Simon Johnson, Andy Mills, Neena Pathak, Rachel Quester, Ike Sriskandarajah, Clare Toeniskoetter, Jonathan Wolfe and Alexandra Leigh Young, and edited by Larissa Anderson, Paige Cowett and Wendy Dorr. Lisa Tobin is our executive producer. Samantha Henig is our editorial director. Brad Fisher is our technical manager. Chris Wood is our sound engineer. Our theme music is by Jim Brunberg and Ben Landsverk of Wonderly.Supported by By Michael M. Grynbaum and Sydney Ember There is an unlikely new hot spot for Democratic candidates: Fox News. President Trump’s favorite network is increasingly playing host to hopefuls from the Democratic presidential field, eager for exposure to the vast Fox News audience — even as they risk a backlash from others in the party who view the network as an ideological menace. The expedition into what many liberals consider enemy territory picked up this week after Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont appeared at a town hall on the network, drawing the biggest television audience of any 2020 Democratic candidate so far — more than 2.5 million people — while pitching himself to Trump-leaning viewers who may be willing to cross party lines next year. On Wednesday, Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota said she had agreed to a Fox News town hall-style event next month. Mayor Pete Buttigieg of South Bend, Ind., is in advanced talks with the network. Julián Castro, the former housing secretary, is close to signing on, and Senators Kirsten Gillibrand of New York and Cory Booker of New Jersey say they are open to the idea. The debate over whether to appear on Fox News reflects in some ways a larger divide in the party as it ponders how to retake the White House: Should Democrats focus on expanding and mobilizing the various coalitions that make up their base, or seek inroads with the millions of Americans who supported Mr. Trump in 2016? For Mr. Buttigieg’s ascendant campaign, the answer, in a saturated media age, was easy. “We are going to talk to voters everywhere and we are going to meet them where they are,” said Lis Smith, who oversees media strategy for Mr. Buttigieg, who in March became the first 2020 Democratic candidate to sit for an interview with Chris Wallace on “Fox News Sunday.” “The outdated approach of taking a calculated and risk-averse approach to the media needs to be put in the past.” “Voters are going to reward fearlessness,” Ms. Smith added, “even if that comes with a mistake here or there.” [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] Fox News town halls are moderated by news anchors like Bret Baier, not the network’s hard-right commentators. But the fealty that pundits like Sean Hannity show to Mr. Trump have many establishment Democrats apprehensive. Last month, the Democratic National Committee took the unusual step of barring Fox News from sponsoring any of its presidential primary debates, saying its “inappropriate relationship” with the administration made it unfit to stage a fair event. Critics say that Democrats who go on the network lend credibility to a platform that many liberal voters view as xenophobic, toxic and an incorrigible mouthpiece for the president. “I understand the short-term incentives for Bernie Sanders and Pete Buttigieg to appear on Fox News, but putting an imprimatur of legitimacy on one of the most destructive forces in American politics has long-term consequences,” Dan Pfeiffer, a former senior adviser to President Barack Obama and a host of the liberal podcast “Pod Save America,” wrote on Twitter on Tuesday. (Ms. Smith fired back, noting on Twitter that Mr. Obama had sat for interviews with the former Fox News star Bill O’Reilly.) Even Mr. Trump seemed mystified to see Mr. Sanders, one of his sharpest critics, granted Fox News airtime to call the president a “pathological liar,” among other epithets. “So weird to watch Crazy Bernie on @FoxNews,” Mr. Trump tweeted on Tuesday, as a loyal viewer displeased by an unexpected story arc. “What’s with @FoxNews?” the president wrote. Mr. Trump has been complaining about Fox News for many months. But the campaign’s strategy is to depict Democrats as too extreme for the country, and it fears that candidates will seem more presentable if Fox News introduces them in a friendly way. Mr. Trump and some of his advisers are also irked that Fox News is showcasing not just Mr. Sanders, but a moderate like Ms. Klobuchar of Minnesota, a Midwest state where the Trump campaign is looking to make headway, according to people familiar with their thinking. [Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.] Mr. Sanders received generally positive reviews for his appearance on Fox News, but other Democrats remain wary. Senator Kamala Harris of California, in an interview on “Pod Save America” on Wednesday, said she would “think about” appearing on Fox News, although she declined to commit. “I’m not excluding anyone in terms of trying to earn their vote and compete for their vote,” she said. “There’s a whole other conversation to be had about how Fox News does their work and the bias with which they do it.” Mr. Castro’s campaign, in its talks with the network, had questions about who the audience would be and whether the event would be conducted in a nonpartisan manner, according to Jennifer Fiore, a senior adviser. But it was satisfied with the responses it received, including that the audience would be made up of independents and Democrats. The appearance has not been scheduled, but the two sides appear close to setting a date. Mr. Castro “has always campaigned for every vote, Democrat and Republican,” Ms. Fiore said, noting that he had served as a mayor in a red state. Some Democratic strategists pointed out that an appearance on Fox News grants access to the top-rated cable news channel — the network routinely beats its rivals CNN and MSNBC in overall ratings — along with the favorable optics of wading into the lion’s den, essentially signaling to voters that a candidate is unafraid to engage with a challenging moderator and a potentially skeptical audience. Others note that in last year’s midterm elections, Democrats were able to wrest four Midwestern governorships from Republicans, including three in states Mr. Trump captured in 2016 — showing the value of trying to win back voters in that region who might be disenchanted with the president. “It’s just a smart place to be,” said Tad Devine, Mr. Sanders’s longtime strategist, who is not working for his campaign this year. “In politics, the downsides are inevitable. You have to weigh them against the upsides. And the upside is you get to talk to millions of people.” And maybe rally the faithful, too. After Mr. Sanders’s appearance Monday, he blasted out a fund-raising appeal about it to his supporters, embedding a Fox News clip in which audience members cheered his “Medicare for all” plans. “Last night Bernie showed why he is the best candidate to beat Trump,” the email declared. Other Democrats argue that the Fox News audience is unnecessary, pointing to the excitement surrounding candidates like former Representative Beto O’Rourke, whose unapologetically liberal run for the Senate in Texas last year galvanized voters and donors, pushing him to within three points of victory. Then there is a broader concern that the symbiosis between Fox News stars and the Trump administration means the network will not treat Democrats fairly. On Monday, hours before Mr. Sanders went on the network, the chairman of the D.N.C. told a Fox News interviewer that he had no plans to reconsider his decision to bar the network from sponsoring an official party debate. “I don’t have faith in your leadership at Fox News at the senior levels,” the chairman, Tom Perez, told the anchor Bill Hemmer. Mr. Hemmer, who works on the reporting side of the network, pushed back, comparing Fox News’s opinion programming to that of a newspaper’s editorial page. “We’ll give you a fair shake,” he said. That argument has been echoed by Fox News executives, who say that the Democrats’ debate decision was shortsighted and that the network’s reporters serve as neutral journalists. Mr. Wallace won praise in 2016 for his moderating of the third presidential debate. Fox News declined to comment for this article. Lesser-known candidates like Andrew Yang, a former tech executive, and Representative Tulsi Gabbard of Hawaii have made appearances in shorter segments on the network. But Mr. Sanders is currently a front-runner in the Democratic race, and his extended appearance Monday represented a bigger leap. The audience on Monday was significantly larger than the 1.95 million who watched Ms. Harris on CNN in January, the previous benchmark for televised town halls. Mr. Sanders attracted more viewers between the ages of 25 and 54, the key demographic in cable news, than the same night’s broadcast of Rachel Maddow, who is MSNBC’s top-rated star. Still, some candidates remain on the fence. And others seem ready to dodge the subject completely.  Asked on Tuesday if she would participate in a Fox News town hall, Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts told a reporter to speak to her communications director. “She’s the one figuring out where we’re going to go and who we’re talking to,” Ms. Warren said. Contacted on Wednesday, the communications director, Kristen Orthman, declined to comment. Maggie Haberman and Nick Corasaniti contributed reporting.   

Supported by By Michael M. Grynbaum and Sydney Ember There is an unlikely new hot spot for Democratic candidates: Fox News. President Trump’s favorite network is increasingly playing host to hopefuls from the Democratic presidential field, eager for exposure to the vast Fox News audience — even as they risk a backlash from others in the party who view the network as an ideological menace. The expedition into what many liberals consider enemy territory picked up this week after Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont appeared at a town hall on the network, drawing the biggest television audience of any 2020 Democratic candidate so far — more than 2.5 million people — while pitching himself to Trump-leaning viewers who may be willing to cross party lines next year. On Wednesday, Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota said she had agreed to a Fox News town hall-style event next month. Mayor Pete Buttigieg of South Bend, Ind., is in advanced talks with the network. Julián Castro, the former housing secretary, is close to signing on, and Senators Kirsten Gillibrand of New York and Cory Booker of New Jersey say they are open to the idea. The debate over whether to appear on Fox News reflects in some ways a larger divide in the party as it ponders how to retake the White House: Should Democrats focus on expanding and mobilizing the various coalitions that make up their base, or seek inroads with the millions of Americans who supported Mr. Trump in 2016? For Mr. Buttigieg’s ascendant campaign, the answer, in a saturated media age, was easy. “We are going to talk to voters everywhere and we are going to meet them where they are,” said Lis Smith, who oversees media strategy for Mr. Buttigieg, who in March became the first 2020 Democratic candidate to sit for an interview with Chris Wallace on “Fox News Sunday.” “The outdated approach of taking a calculated and risk-averse approach to the media needs to be put in the past.” “Voters are going to reward fearlessness,” Ms. Smith added, “even if that comes with a mistake here or there.” [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] Fox News town halls are moderated by news anchors like Bret Baier, not the network’s hard-right commentators. But the fealty that pundits like Sean Hannity show to Mr. Trump have many establishment Democrats apprehensive. Last month, the Democratic National Committee took the unusual step of barring Fox News from sponsoring any of its presidential primary debates, saying its “inappropriate relationship” with the administration made it unfit to stage a fair event. Critics say that Democrats who go on the network lend credibility to a platform that many liberal voters view as xenophobic, toxic and an incorrigible mouthpiece for the president. “I understand the short-term incentives for Bernie Sanders and Pete Buttigieg to appear on Fox News, but putting an imprimatur of legitimacy on one of the most destructive forces in American politics has long-term consequences,” Dan Pfeiffer, a former senior adviser to President Barack Obama and a host of the liberal podcast “Pod Save America,” wrote on Twitter on Tuesday. (Ms. Smith fired back, noting on Twitter that Mr. Obama had sat for interviews with the former Fox News star Bill O’Reilly.) Even Mr. Trump seemed mystified to see Mr. Sanders, one of his sharpest critics, granted Fox News airtime to call the president a “pathological liar,” among other epithets. “So weird to watch Crazy Bernie on @FoxNews,” Mr. Trump tweeted on Tuesday, as a loyal viewer displeased by an unexpected story arc. “What’s with @FoxNews?” the president wrote. Mr. Trump has been complaining about Fox News for many months. But the campaign’s strategy is to depict Democrats as too extreme for the country, and it fears that candidates will seem more presentable if Fox News introduces them in a friendly way. Mr. Trump and some of his advisers are also irked that Fox News is showcasing not just Mr. Sanders, but a moderate like Ms. Klobuchar of Minnesota, a Midwest state where the Trump campaign is looking to make headway, according to people familiar with their thinking. [Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.] Mr. Sanders received generally positive reviews for his appearance on Fox News, but other Democrats remain wary. Senator Kamala Harris of California, in an interview on “Pod Save America” on Wednesday, said she would “think about” appearing on Fox News, although she declined to commit. “I’m not excluding anyone in terms of trying to earn their vote and compete for their vote,” she said. “There’s a whole other conversation to be had about how Fox News does their work and the bias with which they do it.” Mr. Castro’s campaign, in its talks with the network, had questions about who the audience would be and whether the event would be conducted in a nonpartisan manner, according to Jennifer Fiore, a senior adviser. But it was satisfied with the responses it received, including that the audience would be made up of independents and Democrats. The appearance has not been scheduled, but the two sides appear close to setting a date. Mr. Castro “has always campaigned for every vote, Democrat and Republican,” Ms. Fiore said, noting that he had served as a mayor in a red state. Some Democratic strategists pointed out that an appearance on Fox News grants access to the top-rated cable news channel — the network routinely beats its rivals CNN and MSNBC in overall ratings — along with the favorable optics of wading into the lion’s den, essentially signaling to voters that a candidate is unafraid to engage with a challenging moderator and a potentially skeptical audience. Others note that in last year’s midterm elections, Democrats were able to wrest four Midwestern governorships from Republicans, including three in states Mr. Trump captured in 2016 — showing the value of trying to win back voters in that region who might be disenchanted with the president. “It’s just a smart place to be,” said Tad Devine, Mr. Sanders’s longtime strategist, who is not working for his campaign this year. “In politics, the downsides are inevitable. You have to weigh them against the upsides. And the upside is you get to talk to millions of people.” And maybe rally the faithful, too. After Mr. Sanders’s appearance Monday, he blasted out a fund-raising appeal about it to his supporters, embedding a Fox News clip in which audience members cheered his “Medicare for all” plans. “Last night Bernie showed why he is the best candidate to beat Trump,” the email declared. Other Democrats argue that the Fox News audience is unnecessary, pointing to the excitement surrounding candidates like former Representative Beto O’Rourke, whose unapologetically liberal run for the Senate in Texas last year galvanized voters and donors, pushing him to within three points of victory. Then there is a broader concern that the symbiosis between Fox News stars and the Trump administration means the network will not treat Democrats fairly. On Monday, hours before Mr. Sanders went on the network, the chairman of the D.N.C. told a Fox News interviewer that he had no plans to reconsider his decision to bar the network from sponsoring an official party debate. “I don’t have faith in your leadership at Fox News at the senior levels,” the chairman, Tom Perez, told the anchor Bill Hemmer. Mr. Hemmer, who works on the reporting side of the network, pushed back, comparing Fox News’s opinion programming to that of a newspaper’s editorial page. “We’ll give you a fair shake,” he said. That argument has been echoed by Fox News executives, who say that the Democrats’ debate decision was shortsighted and that the network’s reporters serve as neutral journalists. Mr. Wallace won praise in 2016 for his moderating of the third presidential debate. Fox News declined to comment for this article. Lesser-known candidates like Andrew Yang, a former tech executive, and Representative Tulsi Gabbard of Hawaii have made appearances in shorter segments on the network. But Mr. Sanders is currently a front-runner in the Democratic race, and his extended appearance Monday represented a bigger leap. The audience on Monday was significantly larger than the 1.95 million who watched Ms. Harris on CNN in January, the previous benchmark for televised town halls. Mr. Sanders attracted more viewers between the ages of 25 and 54, the key demographic in cable news, than the same night’s broadcast of Rachel Maddow, who is MSNBC’s top-rated star. Still, some candidates remain on the fence. And others seem ready to dodge the subject completely.  Asked on Tuesday if she would participate in a Fox News town hall, Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts told a reporter to speak to her communications director. “She’s the one figuring out where we’re going to go and who we’re talking to,” Ms. Warren said. Contacted on Wednesday, the communications director, Kristen Orthman, declined to comment. Maggie Haberman and Nick Corasaniti contributed reporting.   Supported by By Jeremy W. Peters WASHINGTON — Republican leaders are sharpening and poll-testing lines of attack that portray Democratic policies on health care, the environment and abortion as far outside the norm, in hopes of arming President Trump with hyperbolic sound bites — some of them false — asserting that Democrats would cause long waits for doctors or make killing babies after birth legal. The blunt messaging underscores one of the biggest challenges facing Democrats as they try to defeat the incumbent president: the need to define themselves and their ideas before Mr. Trump and his conservative allies do it for them. The Republican National Committee has already begun polling in 16 states to assess ways to discredit ideas like “Medicare for all,” which Senator Bernie Sanders proposed in a bill this week, and build on the party’s broader argument that Democratic candidates like Mr. Sanders are promoting an extreme socialist agenda. Social conservative leaders have met with White House officials to discuss calling attention to Democratic-sponsored legislation to loosen restrictions on abortion in the second and third trimesters, like one that passed recently in New York. [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] The recent focus on health care and abortion follows well-coordinated attacks on policies like the Green New Deal, which reduced the far-reaching climate change proposal to a punch line with jokes about cow flatulence and putting farms out of business. Some Democratic strategists said they have been taken aback recently by how successful Mr. Trump and Republicans have been at setting the terms of the debate around liberal policy ideas. And they are encouraging their party to be more nimble and deliver a more concise and accessible message. In a fight with Mr. Trump, they say, nuance is not usually the Democrats’ best weapon. “What our side has to understand is that to fight Trump it’s a battle for definition,” said Celinda Lake, a top Democratic pollster who has been working with left-of-center groups on a strategy to counter the messaging campaign from the right. “The Democrats will issue a 61-page white paper that nobody in their right mind will pass on to their friends,” she added. “He uses a one-sentence slogan, and his voters feel emboldened to share it, pass it on.” Democrats say they expect an asymmetrical battle against an opponent who makes his own rules and possesses a singular ability to saturate the national conversation. This can cut both ways, especially on issues like immigration where his fitful threats to close the southern border may cast him as more of a crisis instigator than mitigator. In 2018, Mr. Trump’s alarmist warnings about the Central American migrant caravan and his exaggerated claims about immigrants and crime were divisive with many suburban voters and contributed to Democratic victories that helped the party win the House. Still, the president’s purge of the Homeland Security Department this week signals his belief that strict immigration enforcement is a winning issue for him. And while the wall he promised in 2016 remains unbuilt, he will continue to look for new ways to hold a hard line on border security. It is not clear whether any of the Republican messaging is having an impact on voters outside of the president’s so far unmovable base. But Ms. Lake said that as she surveyed likely 2020 swing voters, she was surprised to hear people in focus groups repeat false assertions made by the president and his allies — that Democrats would end air travel in the United States and shut down dairy farms and beef production because of greenhouse gas emissions from cows. “It’s amazing the number of people who would volunteer that,” she said. The actual language in the proposal calls for cleaner transportation and agriculture “as much as is technologically feasible.” The misperception about cows and airplanes originated with a now-retracted fact sheet published by Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez’s office that contained an ironic aside about getting rid of “farting cows and airplanes.” Republicans said they also saw “Medicare for all”-type proposals as a way to give their rallying cries on socialism more substance and potency. Some plans, like the one put forward by Mr. Sanders, would largely eliminate private insurance plans, which Republicans have found is overwhelmingly unpopular with the kinds of voters they need to win back. [Who’s running for president in 2020? Keep up with who’s in and who’s out with our candidate tracker.] “The debate that’s going to play out in suburbs across the country is a choice between capitalism versus socialism,” said Ronna McDaniel, the chairwoman of the Republican National Committee. “When Democrats talk about abolishing private health insurance, for example, most of my friends are on private insurance plans through their jobs or their husbands’ jobs. They don’t want to lose that. They don’t want to wait in line to get to the pediatrician.” “Whichever Democrat wins the nomination will have to own their party’s socialist agenda,” she added. “That’s a debate that President Trump is eager to have and knows he can win.” The Republicans’ data on voters from the 2018 midterms showed that coverage of pre-existing medical conditions was the top issue of concern. But here they face a serious disadvantage: They have no health care plan of their own. But they have been testing messaging on health care with likely voters in the 16 states they believe will be the most competitive in 2020. These include ones Mr. Trump narrowly won like Michigan, Wisconsin and Florida, as well as those he won by larger margins but have tilted more Democratic lately, like Arizona and North Carolina. The R.N.C. found that when voters were told that “Medicare for all” would eliminate private insurance and create a government-run system paid for by higher taxes, independents, married women and union members disliked the idea by wide margins. Among married women alone, nearly 60 percent disapproved. Mr. Trump’s own approach at labeling Democrats has been inconsistent. He has yet to come up with the kind of indelible rhetorical device that he used repeatedly to brand his opponents in 2016. So far he has nothing like “Crooked Hillary,” “Little Marco’’ and “Low-energy Jeb,” which delighted many of his supporters two years ago. But he has occasionally made graphic and false claims that Democrats support legislation that would allow “executing babies AFTER birth,” as he said in a recent tweet. During a meeting at the White House before his State of the Union address that included some conservative activists, Mr. Trump expressed amazement at comments by the governor of Virginia, Ralph Northam, who had to clarify his defense of abortion in later stages of pregnancy after activists accused him of saying doctors should be able to kill a baby born alive during the procedure. “Can you believe this governor?’’ the president said, according to two people at the meeting, who said that he was surprisingly animated about the subject and vowed to keep mentioning it. The Centers for Disease Control says such late-term abortions are extremely rare. Only about 1.3 percent of abortions in the United States in 2015 were performed in or after the 21st week of pregnancy, the agency reported. But anti-abortion activists said the efforts in some states like New York and Virginia to remove certain barriers to second- and third-trimester abortions allowed them to present the issue to voters in a new and graphic light. Democrats have struggled to defend the new legislation; privately some say they are not being persuasive in explaining the health situations the bills address while the other side accuses them of condoning infanticide. While polls show that Americans support allowing abortion in the first three months by wide margins, that support drops sharply when people are asked in general about the second and third trimesters. (They overwhelmingly support exceptions if the mother’s life is endangered.) “We’re in a totally different environment,” said Mallory Quigley, vice president of communications for the Susan B. Anthony List, a group that opposes abortion rights and that plans to test messages on the issue with voters in the months ahead. Democrats say they cannot let Mr. Trump and other Republicans go unanswered as they try to link the party to socialism — a term that Americans view negatively over all — and to extremism in a broader sense. That has been the motivation behind Republicans’ intense focus on two young, freshman members of Congress: Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, the congresswoman from Queens who calls herself a democratic socialist; and Ilhan Omar of Minnesota, whose criticism of Israel led the president and others to condemn her as an anti-Semite. Some of Ms. Omar’s most vocal defenders have been self-described democratic socialists. Even if Americans say they like policies that are derivative of socialism, like Social Security, the term “connotes very clear imagery to people in a very dog whistle kind of way,” said Jefrey Pollock, president of the Global Strategy group, which advises Democrats on messaging. “Then they attach faces to it,” he added, “and I think it can have resonance, and it has had resonance.” The effort on the right to elevate Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, 29, as the most prominent socialist foil is something Democrats are watching, Mr. Pollock said. “She is, of course, six years away from being able to run for president. But they are still trying to make her the face of the party.” Conservatives have extended this line of attack beyond candidates like Mr. Sanders, who identifies as a democratic socialist. They are using it on other 2020 contenders like Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Ind. Laura Ingraham, the Fox News host, last week accused Mr. Buttigieg’s father, who died recently, and who had taught at the University of Notre Dame, of being “a committed Marxist, who affectionately embraced the Communist Manifesto.” She cited a Washington Examiner report as evidence. Democrats’ own research has found this approach to be effective with the Republican base, which can be more aware of liberal policies like the Green New Deal than liberals are. When Global Strategy Group and GBA Strategies surveyed Fox News viewers last month, they found that Republicans who watch Fox are more than twice as likely as all other groups to have heard about the plan than Democrats. Their verdict? Seventy-seven percent of them are very concerned about the influence of socialism in the Democratic Party.   OpinionMichelle Goldberg

Supported by By Jeremy W. Peters WASHINGTON — Republican leaders are sharpening and poll-testing lines of attack that portray Democratic policies on health care, the environment and abortion as far outside the norm, in hopes of arming President Trump with hyperbolic sound bites — some of them false — asserting that Democrats would cause long waits for doctors or make killing babies after birth legal. The blunt messaging underscores one of the biggest challenges facing Democrats as they try to defeat the incumbent president: the need to define themselves and their ideas before Mr. Trump and his conservative allies do it for them. The Republican National Committee has already begun polling in 16 states to assess ways to discredit ideas like “Medicare for all,” which Senator Bernie Sanders proposed in a bill this week, and build on the party’s broader argument that Democratic candidates like Mr. Sanders are promoting an extreme socialist agenda. Social conservative leaders have met with White House officials to discuss calling attention to Democratic-sponsored legislation to loosen restrictions on abortion in the second and third trimesters, like one that passed recently in New York. [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] The recent focus on health care and abortion follows well-coordinated attacks on policies like the Green New Deal, which reduced the far-reaching climate change proposal to a punch line with jokes about cow flatulence and putting farms out of business. Some Democratic strategists said they have been taken aback recently by how successful Mr. Trump and Republicans have been at setting the terms of the debate around liberal policy ideas. And they are encouraging their party to be more nimble and deliver a more concise and accessible message. In a fight with Mr. Trump, they say, nuance is not usually the Democrats’ best weapon. “What our side has to understand is that to fight Trump it’s a battle for definition,” said Celinda Lake, a top Democratic pollster who has been working with left-of-center groups on a strategy to counter the messaging campaign from the right. “The Democrats will issue a 61-page white paper that nobody in their right mind will pass on to their friends,” she added. “He uses a one-sentence slogan, and his voters feel emboldened to share it, pass it on.” Democrats say they expect an asymmetrical battle against an opponent who makes his own rules and possesses a singular ability to saturate the national conversation. This can cut both ways, especially on issues like immigration where his fitful threats to close the southern border may cast him as more of a crisis instigator than mitigator. In 2018, Mr. Trump’s alarmist warnings about the Central American migrant caravan and his exaggerated claims about immigrants and crime were divisive with many suburban voters and contributed to Democratic victories that helped the party win the House. Still, the president’s purge of the Homeland Security Department this week signals his belief that strict immigration enforcement is a winning issue for him. And while the wall he promised in 2016 remains unbuilt, he will continue to look for new ways to hold a hard line on border security. It is not clear whether any of the Republican messaging is having an impact on voters outside of the president’s so far unmovable base. But Ms. Lake said that as she surveyed likely 2020 swing voters, she was surprised to hear people in focus groups repeat false assertions made by the president and his allies — that Democrats would end air travel in the United States and shut down dairy farms and beef production because of greenhouse gas emissions from cows. “It’s amazing the number of people who would volunteer that,” she said. The actual language in the proposal calls for cleaner transportation and agriculture “as much as is technologically feasible.” The misperception about cows and airplanes originated with a now-retracted fact sheet published by Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez’s office that contained an ironic aside about getting rid of “farting cows and airplanes.” Republicans said they also saw “Medicare for all”-type proposals as a way to give their rallying cries on socialism more substance and potency. Some plans, like the one put forward by Mr. Sanders, would largely eliminate private insurance plans, which Republicans have found is overwhelmingly unpopular with the kinds of voters they need to win back. [Who’s running for president in 2020? Keep up with who’s in and who’s out with our candidate tracker.] “The debate that’s going to play out in suburbs across the country is a choice between capitalism versus socialism,” said Ronna McDaniel, the chairwoman of the Republican National Committee. “When Democrats talk about abolishing private health insurance, for example, most of my friends are on private insurance plans through their jobs or their husbands’ jobs. They don’t want to lose that. They don’t want to wait in line to get to the pediatrician.” “Whichever Democrat wins the nomination will have to own their party’s socialist agenda,” she added. “That’s a debate that President Trump is eager to have and knows he can win.” The Republicans’ data on voters from the 2018 midterms showed that coverage of pre-existing medical conditions was the top issue of concern. But here they face a serious disadvantage: They have no health care plan of their own. But they have been testing messaging on health care with likely voters in the 16 states they believe will be the most competitive in 2020. These include ones Mr. Trump narrowly won like Michigan, Wisconsin and Florida, as well as those he won by larger margins but have tilted more Democratic lately, like Arizona and North Carolina. The R.N.C. found that when voters were told that “Medicare for all” would eliminate private insurance and create a government-run system paid for by higher taxes, independents, married women and union members disliked the idea by wide margins. Among married women alone, nearly 60 percent disapproved. Mr. Trump’s own approach at labeling Democrats has been inconsistent. He has yet to come up with the kind of indelible rhetorical device that he used repeatedly to brand his opponents in 2016. So far he has nothing like “Crooked Hillary,” “Little Marco’’ and “Low-energy Jeb,” which delighted many of his supporters two years ago. But he has occasionally made graphic and false claims that Democrats support legislation that would allow “executing babies AFTER birth,” as he said in a recent tweet. During a meeting at the White House before his State of the Union address that included some conservative activists, Mr. Trump expressed amazement at comments by the governor of Virginia, Ralph Northam, who had to clarify his defense of abortion in later stages of pregnancy after activists accused him of saying doctors should be able to kill a baby born alive during the procedure. “Can you believe this governor?’’ the president said, according to two people at the meeting, who said that he was surprisingly animated about the subject and vowed to keep mentioning it. The Centers for Disease Control says such late-term abortions are extremely rare. Only about 1.3 percent of abortions in the United States in 2015 were performed in or after the 21st week of pregnancy, the agency reported. But anti-abortion activists said the efforts in some states like New York and Virginia to remove certain barriers to second- and third-trimester abortions allowed them to present the issue to voters in a new and graphic light. Democrats have struggled to defend the new legislation; privately some say they are not being persuasive in explaining the health situations the bills address while the other side accuses them of condoning infanticide. While polls show that Americans support allowing abortion in the first three months by wide margins, that support drops sharply when people are asked in general about the second and third trimesters. (They overwhelmingly support exceptions if the mother’s life is endangered.) “We’re in a totally different environment,” said Mallory Quigley, vice president of communications for the Susan B. Anthony List, a group that opposes abortion rights and that plans to test messages on the issue with voters in the months ahead. Democrats say they cannot let Mr. Trump and other Republicans go unanswered as they try to link the party to socialism — a term that Americans view negatively over all — and to extremism in a broader sense. That has been the motivation behind Republicans’ intense focus on two young, freshman members of Congress: Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, the congresswoman from Queens who calls herself a democratic socialist; and Ilhan Omar of Minnesota, whose criticism of Israel led the president and others to condemn her as an anti-Semite. Some of Ms. Omar’s most vocal defenders have been self-described democratic socialists. Even if Americans say they like policies that are derivative of socialism, like Social Security, the term “connotes very clear imagery to people in a very dog whistle kind of way,” said Jefrey Pollock, president of the Global Strategy group, which advises Democrats on messaging. “Then they attach faces to it,” he added, “and I think it can have resonance, and it has had resonance.” The effort on the right to elevate Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, 29, as the most prominent socialist foil is something Democrats are watching, Mr. Pollock said. “She is, of course, six years away from being able to run for president. But they are still trying to make her the face of the party.” Conservatives have extended this line of attack beyond candidates like Mr. Sanders, who identifies as a democratic socialist. They are using it on other 2020 contenders like Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Ind. Laura Ingraham, the Fox News host, last week accused Mr. Buttigieg’s father, who died recently, and who had taught at the University of Notre Dame, of being “a committed Marxist, who affectionately embraced the Communist Manifesto.” She cited a Washington Examiner report as evidence. Democrats’ own research has found this approach to be effective with the Republican base, which can be more aware of liberal policies like the Green New Deal than liberals are. When Global Strategy Group and GBA Strategies surveyed Fox News viewers last month, they found that Republicans who watch Fox are more than twice as likely as all other groups to have heard about the plan than Democrats. Their verdict? Seventy-seven percent of them are very concerned about the influence of socialism in the Democratic Party.   OpinionMichelle GoldbergSupported by Readers respond to three columns about increasing divisions within the party.  By Rachel L. Harris and Lisa Tarchak Ms. Harris and Ms. Tarchak are senior editorial assistants. What — or who — will it take to unite the Democratic Party? Last week, three columnists wrote about the growing rivalry between the party’s progressives and moderates, and speculated as to which contingent could produce a candidate strong enough to take the presidency in 2020.  Responses to each column (David Leonhardt’s “A Dose of Moderation Would Help Democrats,” Ross Douthat’s “The Democrats Have a Culture Problem” and Thomas B. Edsall’s “‘We Are Either a Team or We’re Not’”) reflected a common divide among our readers. While many touted the virtues of democratic socialists like Senator Bernie Sanders as being able to galvanize younger voters, many others called for someone like Senator Sherrod Brown of Ohio (who has since decided not to run), saying more centrist policies helped him hold an important swing state in the midterms. A selection from these debates is below. Comments have been edited for length and clarity.  What I’d like to see is not a combination of progressives and moderates, but a combination within individual Democrats of progressive policy aims and moderate temperament. Turning those policy aims into reality will require long-term Democratic control of Congress and the White House. Forging such a durable majority will take patience, prudence, and consensus building. It won’t be accomplished with an intolerant, purist mind set that isn’t shared by most Americans. The progressive agenda is too important to be entrusted to the progressive personality type. — Longestaffe, Pickering Most self-described socialists are young. They have seen what their moderate parents have gotten us: income inequality, a deteriorating environment and college graduates driving Uber because that’s the best work they can get. You can say that socialism is a bad electoral strategy but young people don’t care. Instead of lecturing them about why they’re wrong, try listening to them. — Cal. Prof., Berkeley, Calif. A more reasonable label would be “Ineffective Flabby Reformism” versus attempts to actually stand up and accomplish some needed goals. The terms “left” and “socialism” really refer to being good to our neighbors, being less selfish, seeing the harm of extreme inequality, opening one’s eyes to historical racism and sexism in our lives and trying to save our planet from ecological catastrophes. — Just Thinkin’, Texas We need to move this country forward after being thrown back on our heels by the incompetent G.W. Bush, immoral Trump and ineffective Obama. We need Franklin D. Roosevelt’s economic policies, John F. Kennedy’s and Lyndon B. Johnson’s social activism and rigorous environmental policies. Far more Republicans will support the candidacy of Senator Bernie Sanders than that of a moderate Democrat. Sanders would take all the disenchanted Trump voters, and they are growing by the day. — Rich D., Tucson The Democratic Party doesn’t recognize that it is an elitist organization; that the progressive ideals it claims to represent are akin to political gentrification at the expense of solving the underlying problems threatening America’s working class. And when someone like Sen. Sherrod Brown does speak for this great mass of individuals, he is labeled with the pejorative term “populist,” as though it is unfair to appeal to what most of the country really wants. — Jerry Meadows, Cincinnati  I’ve heard moderate Democrats dismissed as “unicorns,” not worthy of pursuit. I can tell you there are plenty of us in this party, and if it swings too far to the fringe left, not only will the party lose independents in 2020, they will lose us. I don’t consider anyone using the tag “Democratic Socialist” to be an actual Democrat and I won’t support a single one of them. — Cordelia, New York I have the misfortune of living in northwest Pennsylvania, the gateway to the Rust Belt. “Democratic Socialism” is not going to work in this part of the country. The right will continue to use Representatives Ocasio-Cortez and Omar as cudgels to paint the left as unhinged. I just wish there was some way to play down the coverage of these new members who are representative of their districts, but not necessarily the rest of the party. I might support them, but my neighbors won’t. — Marylouise, The Rust Belt A call for Democrats to move to the center, when in fact the positions of the progressive candidates are strongly supported by the public, seems foolish and dangerous. Americans want fairer taxes, universal health care, a livable wage and an environmental future that controls global warming. These are meat and potato issues that the electorate will support. — Kevin Cummins, Denver The fact is, our left represents mainstream social and political policy in intelligent, forward-thinking nations. We’re proud of our beliefs. Democrats: walk away from moderate Trump voters. They will never vote for you. It’s time to tack hard left. The only way for Democrats to win is to answer to us, your base. And we’re tired of wasting our votes on centrists who have given us nothing. — Nicholas Rush, Colorado Springs If the right moves further to the right, then, in order for the Democrats to be moderate, they also have to move right. The spectrum needs balance. Personally, I’m looking at a presidential candidate that is to the right of Bernie Sanders and to the left of Amy Klobuchar. Someone who can get both coastal liberals and Midwest blue dogs to vote with excitement. Someone who is to the left of moderation. — Aimee Pollack-Baker, Massachusetts Don’t write off us baby boomer centrist Democrats just yet. Millennials may be marching to the left, but I’m not and neither is anyone in my social circle. And there are still plenty of us remaining.  I see the policies of Senators Bernie Sanders, Elizabeth Warren and Cory Booker as arrogant and ludicrous. From a simple mathematics point of view, they can’t win a national election with the Electoral College. Representatives Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Rashida Tlaib and Ilhan Omar will be the final straw to alienate the majority of white and Latino Americans who are trending right. Trump will win again. And if Trump goes down and a reasonable Republican like Mitt Romney steps in, I’ll vote for him. — David G., Monroe, N.Y. Successful candidates know the nuanced nature of their specific locales. Nancy Pelosi’s challenge is how to stretch her rhetorical practice and analytical toolbox to understand and empower newly elected representatives who clearly bring sorely needed skills and values to the House. If she is to succeed, she must temper the old guard’s outrage at the presence of the new. — Wis. Gal, Colorado Springs We were told to go along to get along and vote for Hillary Clinton. Where did that get us? This time, no way. — Cal Page, New Hampshire  What’s the point of electing moderates or centrists? They’ve done little or nothing to address gross inequality, gun violence, drug prices, wars of choice, corporate tax evasion, trade deals that offshore jobs, abuse of tech sector visas, data privacy, access to primary care, failing infrastructure, regulatory capture and the corrupt swinging doors to the private sector. The new wave of progressives reject special interest financing, taking only small individual donations, and want to deliver change. The stakes are too high to revert to business as usual. — Xoxarle, Tampa, Fla.  America is a big country and there is plenty of room to allow a variety of different cultures to coexist within it. Liberal secular communities do and should exist alongside conservative religious ones. Democrats running for federal office should not focus on cultural issues that devolve easily but on issues like foreign policy that must be resolved at the federal level. — Aoy, Pennsylvania  I may agree with many of the very progressive ideas of Rep. Ocasio-Cortez and the new cadre of lefties in the House, but I also dread the notion of a Trump re-election, losing the House again and never taking back the Senate. That is exactly what will happen if idealism — and, in some cases, narcissism — clouds judgment. I still haven’t forgiven Ralph Nader, who had been a hero of mine, and all his high-minded rhetoric for giving us George H.W. Bush. — Steve, Corvallis Democrats cannot win simply by taking California, New York, New England and New Jersey. If you look at the electoral map from 2016, although Hillary Clinton won the majority of the popular vote, the congressional districts went by and large to the Republicans. Ignoring the Midwest and the South will prove fatal to the chances of regaining the presidency, controlling who sits on the U.S. Supreme Court, enacting laws that benefit the poor and middle class and protecting a woman’s right to choose. America is not a left leaning country, despite what some new members of Congress want us to believe. — Mark Jeffery Koch, Mount Laurel, N.J. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported by Readers respond to three columns about increasing divisions within the party.  By Rachel L. Harris and Lisa Tarchak Ms. Harris and Ms. Tarchak are senior editorial assistants. What — or who — will it take to unite the Democratic Party? Last week, three columnists wrote about the growing rivalry between the party’s progressives and moderates, and speculated as to which contingent could produce a candidate strong enough to take the presidency in 2020.  Responses to each column (David Leonhardt’s “A Dose of Moderation Would Help Democrats,” Ross Douthat’s “The Democrats Have a Culture Problem” and Thomas B. Edsall’s “‘We Are Either a Team or We’re Not’”) reflected a common divide among our readers. While many touted the virtues of democratic socialists like Senator Bernie Sanders as being able to galvanize younger voters, many others called for someone like Senator Sherrod Brown of Ohio (who has since decided not to run), saying more centrist policies helped him hold an important swing state in the midterms. A selection from these debates is below. Comments have been edited for length and clarity.  What I’d like to see is not a combination of progressives and moderates, but a combination within individual Democrats of progressive policy aims and moderate temperament. Turning those policy aims into reality will require long-term Democratic control of Congress and the White House. Forging such a durable majority will take patience, prudence, and consensus building. It won’t be accomplished with an intolerant, purist mind set that isn’t shared by most Americans. The progressive agenda is too important to be entrusted to the progressive personality type. — Longestaffe, Pickering Most self-described socialists are young. They have seen what their moderate parents have gotten us: income inequality, a deteriorating environment and college graduates driving Uber because that’s the best work they can get. You can say that socialism is a bad electoral strategy but young people don’t care. Instead of lecturing them about why they’re wrong, try listening to them. — Cal. Prof., Berkeley, Calif. A more reasonable label would be “Ineffective Flabby Reformism” versus attempts to actually stand up and accomplish some needed goals. The terms “left” and “socialism” really refer to being good to our neighbors, being less selfish, seeing the harm of extreme inequality, opening one’s eyes to historical racism and sexism in our lives and trying to save our planet from ecological catastrophes. — Just Thinkin’, Texas We need to move this country forward after being thrown back on our heels by the incompetent G.W. Bush, immoral Trump and ineffective Obama. We need Franklin D. Roosevelt’s economic policies, John F. Kennedy’s and Lyndon B. Johnson’s social activism and rigorous environmental policies. Far more Republicans will support the candidacy of Senator Bernie Sanders than that of a moderate Democrat. Sanders would take all the disenchanted Trump voters, and they are growing by the day. — Rich D., Tucson The Democratic Party doesn’t recognize that it is an elitist organization; that the progressive ideals it claims to represent are akin to political gentrification at the expense of solving the underlying problems threatening America’s working class. And when someone like Sen. Sherrod Brown does speak for this great mass of individuals, he is labeled with the pejorative term “populist,” as though it is unfair to appeal to what most of the country really wants. — Jerry Meadows, Cincinnati  I’ve heard moderate Democrats dismissed as “unicorns,” not worthy of pursuit. I can tell you there are plenty of us in this party, and if it swings too far to the fringe left, not only will the party lose independents in 2020, they will lose us. I don’t consider anyone using the tag “Democratic Socialist” to be an actual Democrat and I won’t support a single one of them. — Cordelia, New York I have the misfortune of living in northwest Pennsylvania, the gateway to the Rust Belt. “Democratic Socialism” is not going to work in this part of the country. The right will continue to use Representatives Ocasio-Cortez and Omar as cudgels to paint the left as unhinged. I just wish there was some way to play down the coverage of these new members who are representative of their districts, but not necessarily the rest of the party. I might support them, but my neighbors won’t. — Marylouise, The Rust Belt A call for Democrats to move to the center, when in fact the positions of the progressive candidates are strongly supported by the public, seems foolish and dangerous. Americans want fairer taxes, universal health care, a livable wage and an environmental future that controls global warming. These are meat and potato issues that the electorate will support. — Kevin Cummins, Denver The fact is, our left represents mainstream social and political policy in intelligent, forward-thinking nations. We’re proud of our beliefs. Democrats: walk away from moderate Trump voters. They will never vote for you. It’s time to tack hard left. The only way for Democrats to win is to answer to us, your base. And we’re tired of wasting our votes on centrists who have given us nothing. — Nicholas Rush, Colorado Springs If the right moves further to the right, then, in order for the Democrats to be moderate, they also have to move right. The spectrum needs balance. Personally, I’m looking at a presidential candidate that is to the right of Bernie Sanders and to the left of Amy Klobuchar. Someone who can get both coastal liberals and Midwest blue dogs to vote with excitement. Someone who is to the left of moderation. — Aimee Pollack-Baker, Massachusetts Don’t write off us baby boomer centrist Democrats just yet. Millennials may be marching to the left, but I’m not and neither is anyone in my social circle. And there are still plenty of us remaining.  I see the policies of Senators Bernie Sanders, Elizabeth Warren and Cory Booker as arrogant and ludicrous. From a simple mathematics point of view, they can’t win a national election with the Electoral College. Representatives Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Rashida Tlaib and Ilhan Omar will be the final straw to alienate the majority of white and Latino Americans who are trending right. Trump will win again. And if Trump goes down and a reasonable Republican like Mitt Romney steps in, I’ll vote for him. — David G., Monroe, N.Y. Successful candidates know the nuanced nature of their specific locales. Nancy Pelosi’s challenge is how to stretch her rhetorical practice and analytical toolbox to understand and empower newly elected representatives who clearly bring sorely needed skills and values to the House. If she is to succeed, she must temper the old guard’s outrage at the presence of the new. — Wis. Gal, Colorado Springs We were told to go along to get along and vote for Hillary Clinton. Where did that get us? This time, no way. — Cal Page, New Hampshire  What’s the point of electing moderates or centrists? They’ve done little or nothing to address gross inequality, gun violence, drug prices, wars of choice, corporate tax evasion, trade deals that offshore jobs, abuse of tech sector visas, data privacy, access to primary care, failing infrastructure, regulatory capture and the corrupt swinging doors to the private sector. The new wave of progressives reject special interest financing, taking only small individual donations, and want to deliver change. The stakes are too high to revert to business as usual. — Xoxarle, Tampa, Fla.  America is a big country and there is plenty of room to allow a variety of different cultures to coexist within it. Liberal secular communities do and should exist alongside conservative religious ones. Democrats running for federal office should not focus on cultural issues that devolve easily but on issues like foreign policy that must be resolved at the federal level. — Aoy, Pennsylvania  I may agree with many of the very progressive ideas of Rep. Ocasio-Cortez and the new cadre of lefties in the House, but I also dread the notion of a Trump re-election, losing the House again and never taking back the Senate. That is exactly what will happen if idealism — and, in some cases, narcissism — clouds judgment. I still haven’t forgiven Ralph Nader, who had been a hero of mine, and all his high-minded rhetoric for giving us George H.W. Bush. — Steve, Corvallis Democrats cannot win simply by taking California, New York, New England and New Jersey. If you look at the electoral map from 2016, although Hillary Clinton won the majority of the popular vote, the congressional districts went by and large to the Republicans. Ignoring the Midwest and the South will prove fatal to the chances of regaining the presidency, controlling who sits on the U.S. Supreme Court, enacting laws that benefit the poor and middle class and protecting a woman’s right to choose. America is not a left leaning country, despite what some new members of Congress want us to believe. — Mark Jeffery Koch, Mount Laurel, N.J. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Supported by letters Readers disagree about whether this is a principled reaction to a “full-time propaganda channel” or a missed opportunity to address the Fox audience. To the Editor: Re “Democrats, Debate on Fox,” by Liz Mair (Op-Ed, March 9): This Op-Ed seems to make sense: Why should the Democrats spurn those who watch Fox News, many of whom are moderates and, indeed, Democrats themselves? Why abandon any substantial audience? Someone has to call Fox out, that’s why. Fox News is a full-time propaganda channel. It is not just the hours of preaching to the right-wing choir in the evenings. The news menu during the day is, itself, carefully and cleverly designed to incite fear and set up the audience for the evening-long bashing of moderates, liberals and Democrats.  All of America should reject this arm of the Republican Party. As for me, I don’t want any deliberately slanted news from any source. I want facts, and Fox does an excellent job of obscuring them. Doug TerryOlney, Md.The writer is a former journalist and currently produces documentaries. To the Editor: The Democratic National Committee’s decision to bar Fox News from hosting a presidential debate is indeed, as Liz Mair writes, “shortsighted and pointless.” What better way to counter the right’s worldview and present an alternative. Go into the belly of the beast. Yes, a Democrat may not garner many votes from this exercise, but at least he or she will be able to present an unvarnished point of view free of Fox spin.  Theresa MannixSeattle To the Editor: Fox viewers have access to all of the same channels as everyone else and therefore should be no more aggrieved than viewers of ESPN, MTV or whichever other channels don’t host a debate.  Jane Mayer’s exhaustive piece “The Making of the Fox News White House” in The New Yorker chronicled the corrupting connection between Fox and the G.O.P. Fox News is a mouthpiece of the G.O.P. and vice versa. Hosting a debate is a privilege, and Fox hasn’t earned it.  Josh WilsonKobe, Japan To the Editor: When Bret Stephens joined The New York Times there were cries of protest from liberal readers. Although as a lifelong Democrat I don’t agree with everything he espouses, his articles have proven to be extremely astute as he presents sides of the political argument that challenge left-wing policies. This is important. Now the Democrats, having made the decision to bar Fox News from hosting a 2020 presidential primary debate, are once again closing their ears and minds to opposing views. Liz Mair is right in stating that this is very shortsighted. She rightly points out that many Democrats and independents watch Fox News. Not only is there a danger of shutting those potential voters out, but one also has to ask: What are the Democrats afraid of?  Ellen ShireNew York

Supported by letters Readers disagree about whether this is a principled reaction to a “full-time propaganda channel” or a missed opportunity to address the Fox audience. To the Editor: Re “Democrats, Debate on Fox,” by Liz Mair (Op-Ed, March 9): This Op-Ed seems to make sense: Why should the Democrats spurn those who watch Fox News, many of whom are moderates and, indeed, Democrats themselves? Why abandon any substantial audience? Someone has to call Fox out, that’s why. Fox News is a full-time propaganda channel. It is not just the hours of preaching to the right-wing choir in the evenings. The news menu during the day is, itself, carefully and cleverly designed to incite fear and set up the audience for the evening-long bashing of moderates, liberals and Democrats.  All of America should reject this arm of the Republican Party. As for me, I don’t want any deliberately slanted news from any source. I want facts, and Fox does an excellent job of obscuring them. Doug TerryOlney, Md.The writer is a former journalist and currently produces documentaries. To the Editor: The Democratic National Committee’s decision to bar Fox News from hosting a presidential debate is indeed, as Liz Mair writes, “shortsighted and pointless.” What better way to counter the right’s worldview and present an alternative. Go into the belly of the beast. Yes, a Democrat may not garner many votes from this exercise, but at least he or she will be able to present an unvarnished point of view free of Fox spin.  Theresa MannixSeattle To the Editor: Fox viewers have access to all of the same channels as everyone else and therefore should be no more aggrieved than viewers of ESPN, MTV or whichever other channels don’t host a debate.  Jane Mayer’s exhaustive piece “The Making of the Fox News White House” in The New Yorker chronicled the corrupting connection between Fox and the G.O.P. Fox News is a mouthpiece of the G.O.P. and vice versa. Hosting a debate is a privilege, and Fox hasn’t earned it.  Josh WilsonKobe, Japan To the Editor: When Bret Stephens joined The New York Times there were cries of protest from liberal readers. Although as a lifelong Democrat I don’t agree with everything he espouses, his articles have proven to be extremely astute as he presents sides of the political argument that challenge left-wing policies. This is important. Now the Democrats, having made the decision to bar Fox News from hosting a 2020 presidential primary debate, are once again closing their ears and minds to opposing views. Liz Mair is right in stating that this is very shortsighted. She rightly points out that many Democrats and independents watch Fox News. Not only is there a danger of shutting those potential voters out, but one also has to ask: What are the Democrats afraid of?  Ellen ShireNew YorkSupported by By Cecilia Kang WASHINGTON — The House passed legislation on Wednesday that would guarantee broadband internet users equal access to online content, in a crucial step toward bringing back so-called net neutrality regulations overturned at the start of the Trump administration. In a 232-to-190 vote, divided along party lines, the Democratic majority made good on a promise that became a rallying cry in many progressive circles during the 2018 election. It is also expected to be held up as an issue by Democrats in 2020. But the legislation, the Save the Internet Act, faces long odds in the Republican-led Senate. The Senate leader, Mitch McConnell, said this week that the legislation would be “dead on arrival.” Earlier this week, the Office of Management and Budget advised the White House to veto the law if it reached the president’s desk. The office said in a letter that since the law had been overturned, the broadband industry had thrived, a good sign of how deregulation helped the economy. The legislation would prohibit blocking and throttling web traffic and would categorize broadband as a service open to heavy regulation. Supporters say the regulation would prevent companies from blocking or slowing the delivery of content like videos. Opponents say it would strap broadband providers like Verizon and Comcast with heavy-handed restrictions, and could lead to price controls. “We need a law that puts a cop on the beat who will enforce the laws, because we can’t just rely on internet providers to say this will be a free and open internet,” Representative Frank Pallone, Democrat of New Jersey, said in an interview. “No one believes them.” The Federal Communications Commission rolled back the country’s net neutrality rules in November 2017. Shortly after, internet companies and public interest groups sued to overturn the action, which was led by Ajit Pai, the agency’s chairman. In addition, more than two dozen states have raced to create their own net neutrality laws. The Justice Department and telecommunications companies have, in turn, sued to block the state efforts. Net neutrality, a regulatory idea hatched by academics, has been a decade-long battle pitting Silicon Valley and consumer groups against the telecommunications sector. Companies like Google, Mozilla and Facebook have argued that without rules, telecommunications companies can become gatekeepers of online content by choosing the quality of the delivery of web services in a way that could hurt rivals and consumers. The Obama administration sided with their argument, with the F.C.C. approving new regulations in 2015. Now, the companies are pushing for a law on the issue. A group of 120 start-ups, including Stripe, Medium, and GitHub, wrote a letter to Democratic and Republican leaders in support of the bill. “Net neutrality is fundamental to guaranteeing that every American has unencumbered access to the internet,” the companies wrote. “This access is also essential to a competitive, free market for the technology economy to thrive as well as entrepreneurship in this country.” The biggest disagreement between Republicans and Democrats is whether broadband should be considered a utility like phone service. Republicans say that doing so could lead to the possible regulation of broadband rates. Democrats say the categorization is an important update that recognizes the importance of broadband to the economy, culture and education. “Some in Congress are trying to give the government more control again, applying utility-style regulations that would threaten the internet as we know it. We should reject these efforts,” Senator Roger Wicker, Republican of Mississippi, said on the Senate floor last week.

Supported by By Cecilia Kang WASHINGTON — The House passed legislation on Wednesday that would guarantee broadband internet users equal access to online content, in a crucial step toward bringing back so-called net neutrality regulations overturned at the start of the Trump administration. In a 232-to-190 vote, divided along party lines, the Democratic majority made good on a promise that became a rallying cry in many progressive circles during the 2018 election. It is also expected to be held up as an issue by Democrats in 2020. But the legislation, the Save the Internet Act, faces long odds in the Republican-led Senate. The Senate leader, Mitch McConnell, said this week that the legislation would be “dead on arrival.” Earlier this week, the Office of Management and Budget advised the White House to veto the law if it reached the president’s desk. The office said in a letter that since the law had been overturned, the broadband industry had thrived, a good sign of how deregulation helped the economy. The legislation would prohibit blocking and throttling web traffic and would categorize broadband as a service open to heavy regulation. Supporters say the regulation would prevent companies from blocking or slowing the delivery of content like videos. Opponents say it would strap broadband providers like Verizon and Comcast with heavy-handed restrictions, and could lead to price controls. “We need a law that puts a cop on the beat who will enforce the laws, because we can’t just rely on internet providers to say this will be a free and open internet,” Representative Frank Pallone, Democrat of New Jersey, said in an interview. “No one believes them.” The Federal Communications Commission rolled back the country’s net neutrality rules in November 2017. Shortly after, internet companies and public interest groups sued to overturn the action, which was led by Ajit Pai, the agency’s chairman. In addition, more than two dozen states have raced to create their own net neutrality laws. The Justice Department and telecommunications companies have, in turn, sued to block the state efforts. Net neutrality, a regulatory idea hatched by academics, has been a decade-long battle pitting Silicon Valley and consumer groups against the telecommunications sector. Companies like Google, Mozilla and Facebook have argued that without rules, telecommunications companies can become gatekeepers of online content by choosing the quality of the delivery of web services in a way that could hurt rivals and consumers. The Obama administration sided with their argument, with the F.C.C. approving new regulations in 2015. Now, the companies are pushing for a law on the issue. A group of 120 start-ups, including Stripe, Medium, and GitHub, wrote a letter to Democratic and Republican leaders in support of the bill. “Net neutrality is fundamental to guaranteeing that every American has unencumbered access to the internet,” the companies wrote. “This access is also essential to a competitive, free market for the technology economy to thrive as well as entrepreneurship in this country.” The biggest disagreement between Republicans and Democrats is whether broadband should be considered a utility like phone service. Republicans say that doing so could lead to the possible regulation of broadband rates. Democrats say the categorization is an important update that recognizes the importance of broadband to the economy, culture and education. “Some in Congress are trying to give the government more control again, applying utility-style regulations that would threaten the internet as we know it. We should reject these efforts,” Senator Roger Wicker, Republican of Mississippi, said on the Senate floor last week.Supported by By Catie Edmondson and Sheryl Gay Stolberg WASHINGTON — House Republicans are expected as soon as Thursday to try to add an amendment on anti-Semitism to a Yemen war resolution, giving Democrats a wrenching choice: Vote down the amendment amid charges that their party is coddling anti-Semites, or approve it and kill a hard-fought resolution aimed at ending American involvement in Saudi Arabia’s war. While Republicans are keeping a close hold over their plans, Democrats and Jewish groups are convinced that the minority will try the maneuver to derail the Yemen resolution and embarrass Democrats in one maneuver. In February, a similar last-minute procedural motion to condemn anti-Semitism caught Democrats off guard, and knocked the Yemen resolution off its fast track to President Trump’s desk. But this time, Democrats are prepared — and are already laying the groundwork to accuse Republicans of a cynical attempt to weaponize anti-Semitism. In a closed-door meeting this week, Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the No. 2 Democrat and a vocal supporter of Israel, implored members to oppose any Republican motion. “If anybody thinks that I’m not supportive of an anti-Semitism resolution, you don’t know much about my history, and I’m going to tell that to the members on the floor,” Mr. Hoyer later told reporters. “This is about Yemen. This is not about some extraneous, maybe very important, but extraneous and undermining” amendment. The last-minute push by Democrats illustrates the lingering unease in the caucus as Republicans seek to divide them on support for Israel. And it demonstrates a renewed resolve among leadership to take a hard line against allowing members to derail major pieces of legislation by signing on to Republicans’ politically freighted procedural motions. Republicans have twice successfully used the tactic to divide Democrats and put them on the spot over hot-button issues, once on immigration and a second time on anti-Semitism. Both amounted to embarrassing setbacks for Democrats, and both emboldened Republicans, who see an opening to woo Jewish voters, a core component of the Democratic base. “I don’t see the issue going away,” said Representative Lee Zeldin of New York, one of two Jewish Republicans in the House. “Silence isn’t an option.” Debate over anti-Semitism and Israel has been roiling Democrats for months after comments by one of their freshmen, Representative Ilhan Omar of Minnesota, that many construed as anti-Semitic. Republicans have seized on the issue; Mr. Trump has tried to brand Democrats as “anti-Jewish,” despite his own history of trafficking in anti-Semitic tropes. Republicans used the conference last week of the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, the nation’s largest pro-Israel lobby, to attack Democrats over Israel and anti-Semitism. Speaking to the group’s 18,000 delegates, Vice President Mike Pence asserted that the Democratic Party “has been co-opted by people who promote rank anti-Semitic rhetoric.” The recent controversy spurred Representative Ro Khanna, Democrat of California and the lead sponsor of the Yemen resolution, to conduct private meetings with his Democratic colleagues to prepare for a possible Republican effort to derail the resolution. “This is a bill about preventing a famine for 14 million Yemenis,” Mr. Khanna said in an interview. “It’s about saving lives and liberty of women and children, and I find it offensive that the Republicans would use a divisive tactic of anti-Semitism to block an effort to save lives in Yemen.” Even as Democrats rebuke the tactic, it is not going away. Some veteran Jewish lawmakers, notably Representative Eliot L. Engel of New York, the chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, and freshmen in swing districts, privately worried that it would be difficult to vote against a resolution supporting Jews or the Jewish state, according to people familiar with the discussions. And at least two House Democrats, Representatives Elaine Luria of Virginia and Josh Gottheimer of New Jersey, suggested they would have difficulty doing so. Ms. Luria said she would vote in accordance with her values. And Mr. Gottheimer said: “This is a matter of principle for me. I have always stood strong against anti-Semitism and always will.” Democrats have already voted twice to condemn anti-Semitism: once when the Yemen resolution first came up for a vote, and a second time as part of a broader resolution condemning all forms of bigotry after the uproar over Ms. Omar. If they had not approved the first anti-Semitism amendment, the Yemen resolution would have reached Mr. Trump’s desk weeks ago. Because the amendment was attached, the Senate had to start from scratch on a new Yemen resolution. Jewish House Democrats, led by Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, responded to the Republican efforts by introducing their own resolution condemning the boycott Israel movement. Mr. Khanna said Democrats needed to do more, by going on offense against Republicans. Last week, for instance, Representative Mo Brooks, Republican of Alabama, read from Hitler’s manifesto, “Mein Kampf,” on the House floor to compare Democrats and the news media to Nazis who pushed political propaganda. And Representative Louie Gohmert, Republican of Texas, invoked Hitler during a Judiciary Committee hearing in which he compared socialists to Nazis in an effort to tar the Democratic left. “Where are the voices calling for censure” of Mr. Brooks and Mr. Gohmert, Mr. Khanna asked on Twitter. Representative Max Rose, Democrat of New York and the first Jewish lawmaker to represent his district, which has a large Yemeni population, has strongly urged his colleagues to turn back any attempts to weaponize anti-Semitism to derail the legislation. “The ongoing war in Yemen is a humanitarian disaster that has taken thousands and thousands of innocent lives, devastating families in my community back home,” Mr. Rose said. “I don’t play politics when it comes to national security or rising anti-Semitism. Republicans should be ashamed of themselves for using my faith and this issue as a political wedge.” The resolution, which condemns a nearly four-year conflict in Yemen that has inflicted a devastating famine, has faced a long and difficult road in getting to Mr. Trump’s desk. The House easily passed it in February. But by attaching the unrelated Republican resolution over anti-Semitism, Democrats stripped the bill of its so-called privileged status, which would have allowed the Senate to take it up quickly and send it to Mr. Trump. The Senate eventually did pass the measure, and now it is back to the House for what is essentially a do-over. If it passes the House cleanly, the president has promised to veto it, the second veto of his term. Follow Catie Edmondson and Sheryl Gay Stolberg on Twitter: @catieedmondson @SherylNYT

Supported by By Catie Edmondson and Sheryl Gay Stolberg WASHINGTON — House Republicans are expected as soon as Thursday to try to add an amendment on anti-Semitism to a Yemen war resolution, giving Democrats a wrenching choice: Vote down the amendment amid charges that their party is coddling anti-Semites, or approve it and kill a hard-fought resolution aimed at ending American involvement in Saudi Arabia’s war. While Republicans are keeping a close hold over their plans, Democrats and Jewish groups are convinced that the minority will try the maneuver to derail the Yemen resolution and embarrass Democrats in one maneuver. In February, a similar last-minute procedural motion to condemn anti-Semitism caught Democrats off guard, and knocked the Yemen resolution off its fast track to President Trump’s desk. But this time, Democrats are prepared — and are already laying the groundwork to accuse Republicans of a cynical attempt to weaponize anti-Semitism. In a closed-door meeting this week, Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the No. 2 Democrat and a vocal supporter of Israel, implored members to oppose any Republican motion. “If anybody thinks that I’m not supportive of an anti-Semitism resolution, you don’t know much about my history, and I’m going to tell that to the members on the floor,” Mr. Hoyer later told reporters. “This is about Yemen. This is not about some extraneous, maybe very important, but extraneous and undermining” amendment. The last-minute push by Democrats illustrates the lingering unease in the caucus as Republicans seek to divide them on support for Israel. And it demonstrates a renewed resolve among leadership to take a hard line against allowing members to derail major pieces of legislation by signing on to Republicans’ politically freighted procedural motions. Republicans have twice successfully used the tactic to divide Democrats and put them on the spot over hot-button issues, once on immigration and a second time on anti-Semitism. Both amounted to embarrassing setbacks for Democrats, and both emboldened Republicans, who see an opening to woo Jewish voters, a core component of the Democratic base. “I don’t see the issue going away,” said Representative Lee Zeldin of New York, one of two Jewish Republicans in the House. “Silence isn’t an option.” Debate over anti-Semitism and Israel has been roiling Democrats for months after comments by one of their freshmen, Representative Ilhan Omar of Minnesota, that many construed as anti-Semitic. Republicans have seized on the issue; Mr. Trump has tried to brand Democrats as “anti-Jewish,” despite his own history of trafficking in anti-Semitic tropes. Republicans used the conference last week of the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, the nation’s largest pro-Israel lobby, to attack Democrats over Israel and anti-Semitism. Speaking to the group’s 18,000 delegates, Vice President Mike Pence asserted that the Democratic Party “has been co-opted by people who promote rank anti-Semitic rhetoric.” The recent controversy spurred Representative Ro Khanna, Democrat of California and the lead sponsor of the Yemen resolution, to conduct private meetings with his Democratic colleagues to prepare for a possible Republican effort to derail the resolution. “This is a bill about preventing a famine for 14 million Yemenis,” Mr. Khanna said in an interview. “It’s about saving lives and liberty of women and children, and I find it offensive that the Republicans would use a divisive tactic of anti-Semitism to block an effort to save lives in Yemen.” Even as Democrats rebuke the tactic, it is not going away. Some veteran Jewish lawmakers, notably Representative Eliot L. Engel of New York, the chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, and freshmen in swing districts, privately worried that it would be difficult to vote against a resolution supporting Jews or the Jewish state, according to people familiar with the discussions. And at least two House Democrats, Representatives Elaine Luria of Virginia and Josh Gottheimer of New Jersey, suggested they would have difficulty doing so. Ms. Luria said she would vote in accordance with her values. And Mr. Gottheimer said: “This is a matter of principle for me. I have always stood strong against anti-Semitism and always will.” Democrats have already voted twice to condemn anti-Semitism: once when the Yemen resolution first came up for a vote, and a second time as part of a broader resolution condemning all forms of bigotry after the uproar over Ms. Omar. If they had not approved the first anti-Semitism amendment, the Yemen resolution would have reached Mr. Trump’s desk weeks ago. Because the amendment was attached, the Senate had to start from scratch on a new Yemen resolution. Jewish House Democrats, led by Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, responded to the Republican efforts by introducing their own resolution condemning the boycott Israel movement. Mr. Khanna said Democrats needed to do more, by going on offense against Republicans. Last week, for instance, Representative Mo Brooks, Republican of Alabama, read from Hitler’s manifesto, “Mein Kampf,” on the House floor to compare Democrats and the news media to Nazis who pushed political propaganda. And Representative Louie Gohmert, Republican of Texas, invoked Hitler during a Judiciary Committee hearing in which he compared socialists to Nazis in an effort to tar the Democratic left. “Where are the voices calling for censure” of Mr. Brooks and Mr. Gohmert, Mr. Khanna asked on Twitter. Representative Max Rose, Democrat of New York and the first Jewish lawmaker to represent his district, which has a large Yemeni population, has strongly urged his colleagues to turn back any attempts to weaponize anti-Semitism to derail the legislation. “The ongoing war in Yemen is a humanitarian disaster that has taken thousands and thousands of innocent lives, devastating families in my community back home,” Mr. Rose said. “I don’t play politics when it comes to national security or rising anti-Semitism. Republicans should be ashamed of themselves for using my faith and this issue as a political wedge.” The resolution, which condemns a nearly four-year conflict in Yemen that has inflicted a devastating famine, has faced a long and difficult road in getting to Mr. Trump’s desk. The House easily passed it in February. But by attaching the unrelated Republican resolution over anti-Semitism, Democrats stripped the bill of its so-called privileged status, which would have allowed the Senate to take it up quickly and send it to Mr. Trump. The Senate eventually did pass the measure, and now it is back to the House for what is essentially a do-over. If it passes the House cleanly, the president has promised to veto it, the second veto of his term. Follow Catie Edmondson and Sheryl Gay Stolberg on Twitter: @catieedmondson @SherylNYTSupported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — Two House committees subpoenaed Deutsche Bank and several other financial institutions Monday as part of investigations into President Donald Trump's finances. House Intelligence Committee Chairman Adam Schiff, D-Calif., said in a statement that the subpoenas are part of an investigation "into allegations of potential foreign influence on the U.S. political process." Schiff did not name the other financial institutions or describe the subpoenas. House Financial Services Committee Chairwoman Maxine Waters, D-Calif., said in a separate statement that "the potential use of the U.S. financial system for illicit purposes is a very serious concern." She said her committee is looking into those matters, including whether they pertain to Trump. It was unclear exactly what the committees asked for. The investigations are among several House Democrats are conducting into aspects of the president's personal and political life, and Schiff has said he is investigating whether foreign actors, including Russia, have sought to hold leverage over Trump or his family and associates. Eric Trump, the president's son and executive vice president of The Trump Organization, said in a statement released Monday that the subpoenas were "an unprecedented abuse of power and simply the latest attempt by House Democrats to attack the President and our family for political gain." As part of his investigation, Schiff has said he wants to know whether Russians used laundered money for transactions with the Trump Organization. Trump's businesses have benefited from Russian investment over the years. Deutsche Bank is a German asset management firm that has lent Trump's real estate organization millions of dollars over time. The two committees have been working with the bank for several weeks, and both Waters and Schiff have said officials have been cooperative. Schiff said in his statement that the subpoena to Deutsche Bank is a "friendly" subpoena, meaning he expects them to continue working with the committees. The request comes as a third committee, the House Ways and Means Committee, is sparring with the White House over Trump's tax returns. House Ways and Means Chairman Richard Neal, D-Mass., has set a deadline of April 23 for six years of returns. But Trump's acting chief of staff, Mick Mulvaney, has said Democrats will "never" see the returns, "nor should they," and "they know it." __ Associated Press writer Chad Day contributed to this report.

Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — Two House committees subpoenaed Deutsche Bank and several other financial institutions Monday as part of investigations into President Donald Trump's finances. House Intelligence Committee Chairman Adam Schiff, D-Calif., said in a statement that the subpoenas are part of an investigation "into allegations of potential foreign influence on the U.S. political process." Schiff did not name the other financial institutions or describe the subpoenas. House Financial Services Committee Chairwoman Maxine Waters, D-Calif., said in a separate statement that "the potential use of the U.S. financial system for illicit purposes is a very serious concern." She said her committee is looking into those matters, including whether they pertain to Trump. It was unclear exactly what the committees asked for. The investigations are among several House Democrats are conducting into aspects of the president's personal and political life, and Schiff has said he is investigating whether foreign actors, including Russia, have sought to hold leverage over Trump or his family and associates. Eric Trump, the president's son and executive vice president of The Trump Organization, said in a statement released Monday that the subpoenas were "an unprecedented abuse of power and simply the latest attempt by House Democrats to attack the President and our family for political gain." As part of his investigation, Schiff has said he wants to know whether Russians used laundered money for transactions with the Trump Organization. Trump's businesses have benefited from Russian investment over the years. Deutsche Bank is a German asset management firm that has lent Trump's real estate organization millions of dollars over time. The two committees have been working with the bank for several weeks, and both Waters and Schiff have said officials have been cooperative. Schiff said in his statement that the subpoena to Deutsche Bank is a "friendly" subpoena, meaning he expects them to continue working with the committees. The request comes as a third committee, the House Ways and Means Committee, is sparring with the White House over Trump's tax returns. House Ways and Means Chairman Richard Neal, D-Mass., has set a deadline of April 23 for six years of returns. But Trump's acting chief of staff, Mick Mulvaney, has said Democrats will "never" see the returns, "nor should they," and "they know it." __ Associated Press writer Chad Day contributed to this report.Supported by Good Monday morning. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today. _____________________ • Like the proliferation of guns, capital punishment distinguishes the United States from other Western democracies, virtually all of which have banned it. Now, after decades of declining public support, a new generation of Democrats are declaring their opposition to the death penalty. • Kirstjen Nielsen is out as homeland security secretary. She was long expected to be fired — last May, The Times reported that Ms. Nielsen had drafted a resignation letter after being berated for what the president called her failure to help stop illegal immigration. • Kevin McAleenan, the commissioner of Customs and Border Protection, was named acting secretary of homeland security after Ms. Nielsen’s resignation. • As Democrats demand to see the full report by the special counsel, Attorney General William P. Barr is busy redacting parts of it. Here are the categories of information the attorney general says Congress cannot see, from current investigations to “peripheral” people. • It may take federal officials two years to identify what could be thousands of immigrant children who were separated from their families at the southern United States border. • Joe Biden delayed his entry into the Democratic field, hoping to avoid the fray. Now, a crisis he was unprepared for has left him as badly bruised as anyone in the race. • President Trump was met with raucous cheers at the Republican Jewish Coalition’s annual leadership meeting, underscoring how many conservative Jewish voters, alarmed by rising threats of anti-Semitism and energized by his pro-Israel policies, have embraced a president with a history of anti-Semitic tropes. • This weekend, Senator Cory Booker made a detailed case for one of his signature proposals: a government-run savings account for every child born in the United States, called “baby bonds.” • Mr. Booker also released his first-quarter fund-raising numbers this weekend. He raised $5 million, among the smallest totals to be disclosed so far. • Among the new Democrats in Congress, 10 served in the military or intelligence agencies, which has shaped a tight bond. And in a party moving to the left, their backgrounds have made them among the most moderate members. • The House Democratic campaign arm is on the verge of open warfare with the party’s rising liberal wing, as it tries to shut down the types of primary challenges that landed many of them in Congress last year. • Ernest F. Hollings, a South Carolina Democrat who served 38 years in the United States Senate, died on Saturday. He was 97. • For Mr. Trump, a threat is frequently his first impulse. Here’s a look at some of his biggest threats — to foreign countries, domestic corporations and one big state on the West Coast — and what came of them. _____________________ Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.

Supported by Good Monday morning. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today. _____________________ • Like the proliferation of guns, capital punishment distinguishes the United States from other Western democracies, virtually all of which have banned it. Now, after decades of declining public support, a new generation of Democrats are declaring their opposition to the death penalty. • Kirstjen Nielsen is out as homeland security secretary. She was long expected to be fired — last May, The Times reported that Ms. Nielsen had drafted a resignation letter after being berated for what the president called her failure to help stop illegal immigration. • Kevin McAleenan, the commissioner of Customs and Border Protection, was named acting secretary of homeland security after Ms. Nielsen’s resignation. • As Democrats demand to see the full report by the special counsel, Attorney General William P. Barr is busy redacting parts of it. Here are the categories of information the attorney general says Congress cannot see, from current investigations to “peripheral” people. • It may take federal officials two years to identify what could be thousands of immigrant children who were separated from their families at the southern United States border. • Joe Biden delayed his entry into the Democratic field, hoping to avoid the fray. Now, a crisis he was unprepared for has left him as badly bruised as anyone in the race. • President Trump was met with raucous cheers at the Republican Jewish Coalition’s annual leadership meeting, underscoring how many conservative Jewish voters, alarmed by rising threats of anti-Semitism and energized by his pro-Israel policies, have embraced a president with a history of anti-Semitic tropes. • This weekend, Senator Cory Booker made a detailed case for one of his signature proposals: a government-run savings account for every child born in the United States, called “baby bonds.” • Mr. Booker also released his first-quarter fund-raising numbers this weekend. He raised $5 million, among the smallest totals to be disclosed so far. • Among the new Democrats in Congress, 10 served in the military or intelligence agencies, which has shaped a tight bond. And in a party moving to the left, their backgrounds have made them among the most moderate members. • The House Democratic campaign arm is on the verge of open warfare with the party’s rising liberal wing, as it tries to shut down the types of primary challenges that landed many of them in Congress last year. • Ernest F. Hollings, a South Carolina Democrat who served 38 years in the United States Senate, died on Saturday. He was 97. • For Mr. Trump, a threat is frequently his first impulse. Here’s a look at some of his biggest threats — to foreign countries, domestic corporations and one big state on the West Coast — and what came of them. _____________________ Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.Supported by Congressional Memo By Nicholas Fandos WASHINGTON — Representative Hakeem Jeffries of New York, House Democrats’ self-styled message man, was blunt on Tuesday morning: No more impeachment talk. “We didn’t run on impeachment,” he said. “We didn’t win the House of Representatives on impeachment. We’re not focused on impeachment.” Mr. Jeffries had a provocation, and it was not the findings of the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III. It was a letter, circulated Monday evening by Representative Rashida Tlaib, the freshman firebrand from Michigan, asking fellow Democrats to support a formal inquiry into “whether President Trump committed impeachable offenses.” Impeachment has bedeviled the 116th Congress since it convened in January, its prospects fed by a drip, drip of damaging disclosures about the president’s actions, the swirling special counsel investigation into his campaign and explosive testimony of misdeeds. On Tuesday, responding to Ms. Tlaib and staring soberly at Mr. Mueller’s apparent conclusions, Democrats set out to drive a stake through the idea once and for all. “What’s tough is impeachment in principle is something that I openly support, but it’s also just the reality of having votes in the Senate to pursue that,” said Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York, the self-described democratic socialist from New York who has become a face of Mr. Trump’s resurgent opposition. “That’s something that we have to take into consideration.” Besieged by reporters, Representative Maxine Waters of California, the chairwoman of the Financial Services Committee and a vocal proponent of impeachment in the past, responded realistically. “Impeachment has never been a caucus agenda,” she said. Representative Debbie Dingell, who represents a Detroit-area district neighboring Ms. Tlaib’s, said she knew her colleague was not trying to “box anybody into a corner” but “feels strongly” that Mr. Trump is unworthy of his office. Ms. Dingell was, to put it mildly, not in agreement. “We’ve got real work to do,” she said, “and every week, we get off on some subject that doesn’t matter to the working people in my district or the Midwest.” Even Mr. Trump, who has sought to paint Democrats as rabidly pursuing his presidency, seemed to have gotten the message. “I don’t think they’re talking about impeachment,” he said on Tuesday as he walked into a Senate Republican luncheon on the other side of the Capitol. “We have the greatest economy we’ve ever had. Our country is in incredible shape. They and others created a fraud on our country with this ridiculous witch hunt, where it was proven very strongly, no collusion, no obstruction, no nothing.” In fact, the special counsel pointedly said he did not exonerate Mr. Trump on the issue of obstruction of justice. It was Attorney General William P. Barr who stepped in to reject that charge. Nonetheless, Democratic leaders were eager not to make too much of the opening. They have tried for months to play down the possibility of impeachment. Too divisive, they said. Too dangerous. “Not worth it,” said Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California, who has urged her colleagues to beat Mr. Trump at the ballot box instead. Mr. Mueller’s report to Mr. Barr, summarized in a letter to Congress on Sunday, seems to have finally proved the point. Mr. Barr wrote that Mr. Mueller had not found evidence to prove that the Trump campaign had conspired with Russia to subvert the 2016 presidential election or to bring a case that the president obstructed justice. Ms. Pelosi met privately with members of her leadership team Monday night to discuss the path forward after the conclusion of Mr. Mueller’s investigation. On Tuesday, they emerged abuzz about a Trump administration’s legal motion to have the Affordable Care Act invalidated by the federal courts and intent on wrestling the narrative back to the party’s policy agenda. Democrats have not given up on the Mueller report entirely, with six committee leaders leading the fight for access to the full report. And they say they will push ahead energetically with their own investigations into other aspects of the Trump presidency. But it is clear that Ms. Pelosi and her team are trying to turn down the volume. Ms. Tlaib’s resolution outlines three areas of scrutiny for an impeachment inquiry: the president’s possible violations of the Constitution’s foreign emoluments clause, which bans gifts or payments from foreign governments; his role in a pre-Election Day scheme to silence a pornographic film actress and a Playboy model who claimed to have had affairs with him; and the lingering questions around whether Mr. Trump obstructed justice. “We all swore to protect our nation, and that begins with making sure that no one, including the president of the United States, is acting above the law,” wrote Ms. Tlaib, whose vulgar cry to impeach Mr. Trump crashed the Democrats’ swearing-in parties in January. “I urge your support in recommending that the House Committee on Judiciary begin hearings, take depositions and issue subpoenas to answer this question that is fundamental to the rule of law and the preservation of our democracy.” Ms. Tlaib made clear in the closed-door meeting of House Democrats on Tuesday that she was not introducing articles of impeachment, just a resolution that would approve an inquiry into whether such a drastic step was necessary, according to another person in the room. A spokesman for Ms. Tlaib declined to comment on Tuesday. All three issues outlined in Ms. Tlaib’s letter, a copy of which was obtained by The New York Times, are already a matter of investigation by the House Judiciary Committee, and in some cases by other panels. The difference is that those investigations are part of the committees’ regular oversight work. The full House would have to vote to open an impeachment inquiry. And Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, the Judiciary Committee’s chairman, has repeatedly dismissed the idea — presenting the inquiries that he has already opened as sufficient for the time being. Catie Edmondson contributed reporting. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.   

Supported by Congressional Memo By Nicholas Fandos WASHINGTON — Representative Hakeem Jeffries of New York, House Democrats’ self-styled message man, was blunt on Tuesday morning: No more impeachment talk. “We didn’t run on impeachment,” he said. “We didn’t win the House of Representatives on impeachment. We’re not focused on impeachment.” Mr. Jeffries had a provocation, and it was not the findings of the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III. It was a letter, circulated Monday evening by Representative Rashida Tlaib, the freshman firebrand from Michigan, asking fellow Democrats to support a formal inquiry into “whether President Trump committed impeachable offenses.” Impeachment has bedeviled the 116th Congress since it convened in January, its prospects fed by a drip, drip of damaging disclosures about the president’s actions, the swirling special counsel investigation into his campaign and explosive testimony of misdeeds. On Tuesday, responding to Ms. Tlaib and staring soberly at Mr. Mueller’s apparent conclusions, Democrats set out to drive a stake through the idea once and for all. “What’s tough is impeachment in principle is something that I openly support, but it’s also just the reality of having votes in the Senate to pursue that,” said Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York, the self-described democratic socialist from New York who has become a face of Mr. Trump’s resurgent opposition. “That’s something that we have to take into consideration.” Besieged by reporters, Representative Maxine Waters of California, the chairwoman of the Financial Services Committee and a vocal proponent of impeachment in the past, responded realistically. “Impeachment has never been a caucus agenda,” she said. Representative Debbie Dingell, who represents a Detroit-area district neighboring Ms. Tlaib’s, said she knew her colleague was not trying to “box anybody into a corner” but “feels strongly” that Mr. Trump is unworthy of his office. Ms. Dingell was, to put it mildly, not in agreement. “We’ve got real work to do,” she said, “and every week, we get off on some subject that doesn’t matter to the working people in my district or the Midwest.” Even Mr. Trump, who has sought to paint Democrats as rabidly pursuing his presidency, seemed to have gotten the message. “I don’t think they’re talking about impeachment,” he said on Tuesday as he walked into a Senate Republican luncheon on the other side of the Capitol. “We have the greatest economy we’ve ever had. Our country is in incredible shape. They and others created a fraud on our country with this ridiculous witch hunt, where it was proven very strongly, no collusion, no obstruction, no nothing.” In fact, the special counsel pointedly said he did not exonerate Mr. Trump on the issue of obstruction of justice. It was Attorney General William P. Barr who stepped in to reject that charge. Nonetheless, Democratic leaders were eager not to make too much of the opening. They have tried for months to play down the possibility of impeachment. Too divisive, they said. Too dangerous. “Not worth it,” said Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California, who has urged her colleagues to beat Mr. Trump at the ballot box instead. Mr. Mueller’s report to Mr. Barr, summarized in a letter to Congress on Sunday, seems to have finally proved the point. Mr. Barr wrote that Mr. Mueller had not found evidence to prove that the Trump campaign had conspired with Russia to subvert the 2016 presidential election or to bring a case that the president obstructed justice. Ms. Pelosi met privately with members of her leadership team Monday night to discuss the path forward after the conclusion of Mr. Mueller’s investigation. On Tuesday, they emerged abuzz about a Trump administration’s legal motion to have the Affordable Care Act invalidated by the federal courts and intent on wrestling the narrative back to the party’s policy agenda. Democrats have not given up on the Mueller report entirely, with six committee leaders leading the fight for access to the full report. And they say they will push ahead energetically with their own investigations into other aspects of the Trump presidency. But it is clear that Ms. Pelosi and her team are trying to turn down the volume. Ms. Tlaib’s resolution outlines three areas of scrutiny for an impeachment inquiry: the president’s possible violations of the Constitution’s foreign emoluments clause, which bans gifts or payments from foreign governments; his role in a pre-Election Day scheme to silence a pornographic film actress and a Playboy model who claimed to have had affairs with him; and the lingering questions around whether Mr. Trump obstructed justice. “We all swore to protect our nation, and that begins with making sure that no one, including the president of the United States, is acting above the law,” wrote Ms. Tlaib, whose vulgar cry to impeach Mr. Trump crashed the Democrats’ swearing-in parties in January. “I urge your support in recommending that the House Committee on Judiciary begin hearings, take depositions and issue subpoenas to answer this question that is fundamental to the rule of law and the preservation of our democracy.” Ms. Tlaib made clear in the closed-door meeting of House Democrats on Tuesday that she was not introducing articles of impeachment, just a resolution that would approve an inquiry into whether such a drastic step was necessary, according to another person in the room. A spokesman for Ms. Tlaib declined to comment on Tuesday. All three issues outlined in Ms. Tlaib’s letter, a copy of which was obtained by The New York Times, are already a matter of investigation by the House Judiciary Committee, and in some cases by other panels. The difference is that those investigations are part of the committees’ regular oversight work. The full House would have to vote to open an impeachment inquiry. And Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, the Judiciary Committee’s chairman, has repeatedly dismissed the idea — presenting the inquiries that he has already opened as sufficient for the time being. Catie Edmondson contributed reporting. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.   Supported by letters Readers differ on whether centrism or a more progressive agenda is the best course for the 2020 election. To the Editor: “Centrist Democrats Squirm as ’20 Rivals Tilt Left” (front page, March 10) warns that some Democrats fear that they could lose their chance to defeat President Trump by “careening over a liberal cliff.” But the article does not cite a single poll showing that voters will rebel against progressive policies. Instead, it simply recites the dire warnings of “moderates” without giving a shred of evidence to support their fears. The fact is that many policies dismissed as “liberal cliff” ideas by the Washington establishment are broadly popular. Recently, Elizabeth Warren and Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez drew charges of extremism when they proposed much higher taxes on the rich. Then people did polls and — guess what? — both proposals did very well. Not only are voters more supportive of progressive policies than “moderates” imagine, but as political data geeks could tell you, specific policy positions play a limited role in elections. In 1980, Ronald Reagan’s right-wing policy ideas were far out of the mainstream, but he won, because people were tired of Jimmy Carter. And if Bernie Sanders runs against Donald Trump, voters tired of Mr. Trump will make him president.  Steve NovickPortland, Ore. To the Editor: As a centrist Democrat, I believe that there is only one thing that Democrats ought to prioritize in 2020, and that is the removal of Donald Trump from office. Instead, they are busily crafting and polishing their dreamy policy positions, all of which Mr. Trump will use against them to great effect, particularly in my part of the country — which has already shown a dreary susceptibility to his wretched message. I don’t doubt that the new young Democrats are honest in their zeal to fix America’s problems, but I wish they would do less feeling and more thinking. For, to paraphrase Mark 8:36, “What doth it profit a party to gain its whole soul, only to lose Pennsylvania?” Brian GavinLakeport, Mich.

Supported by letters Readers differ on whether centrism or a more progressive agenda is the best course for the 2020 election. To the Editor: “Centrist Democrats Squirm as ’20 Rivals Tilt Left” (front page, March 10) warns that some Democrats fear that they could lose their chance to defeat President Trump by “careening over a liberal cliff.” But the article does not cite a single poll showing that voters will rebel against progressive policies. Instead, it simply recites the dire warnings of “moderates” without giving a shred of evidence to support their fears. The fact is that many policies dismissed as “liberal cliff” ideas by the Washington establishment are broadly popular. Recently, Elizabeth Warren and Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez drew charges of extremism when they proposed much higher taxes on the rich. Then people did polls and — guess what? — both proposals did very well. Not only are voters more supportive of progressive policies than “moderates” imagine, but as political data geeks could tell you, specific policy positions play a limited role in elections. In 1980, Ronald Reagan’s right-wing policy ideas were far out of the mainstream, but he won, because people were tired of Jimmy Carter. And if Bernie Sanders runs against Donald Trump, voters tired of Mr. Trump will make him president.  Steve NovickPortland, Ore. To the Editor: As a centrist Democrat, I believe that there is only one thing that Democrats ought to prioritize in 2020, and that is the removal of Donald Trump from office. Instead, they are busily crafting and polishing their dreamy policy positions, all of which Mr. Trump will use against them to great effect, particularly in my part of the country — which has already shown a dreary susceptibility to his wretched message. I don’t doubt that the new young Democrats are honest in their zeal to fix America’s problems, but I wish they would do less feeling and more thinking. For, to paraphrase Mark 8:36, “What doth it profit a party to gain its whole soul, only to lose Pennsylvania?” Brian GavinLakeport, Mich.Supported by letters Readers discuss comments by Representative Ilhan Omar, the influence of a pro-Israel lobbying group and divisions within the Democratic Party.  To the Editor: Re “Rift Over Israel Has Democrats Divided by Age” (front page, March 6): Of course Democrats are more aggressive in combating prejudice within their own party. It’s both human nature and good diplomacy to hold your own family to higher standards than outsiders or adversaries (otherwise, you’d just look partisan and hypocritical). As an older American Jewish Democrat, I am as aghast as younger American Jews at Israel’s inhumane treatment of Palestinians. I encourage speaking out against it and I applaud Jewish-Palestinian collaboration. But anti-Semitic tropes about the power of Jewish money and the dual allegiance of American Jews are inexcusable aspersions in the face of what might otherwise be valid concerns. Jewish Democrats are fairly defending themselves against such tropes; if other groups — people of color, Muslims, Palestinians — criticize Jewish Democrats for not speaking up more forcefully on their behalf as well, that is fair, too. But why aren’t those other groups equally concerned about anti-Semitism? James BerkmanBoston To the Editor: “Concerns Raised Over Power Wielded by a Pro-Israel Lobbying Giant” (news article, March 5) provides useful information about the tactics the pro-Israel lobby uses to pressure and intimidate members of Congress. Until now, these methods have largely accomplished their goal: an almost total and unconditional refusal in Congress to question Israel’s human rights violations against Palestinians or the $3.8 billion in military aid we give to Israel each year. When Representative Ilhan Omar, one of only two Muslim congresswomen, dares to question this, she is pilloried and falsely accused of anti-Semitism. This is a disgrace. I am one of thousands of American Jews who applaud Ms. Omar for her courage and honesty and stand with her in objecting to Israel’s brutal and worsening policies toward Palestinians.  Ms. Omar speaks simple truth. Isn’t unconditional support of another country no matter its actions a form of allegiance to that country? Rosalind PetcheskyNew YorkThe writer is professor emerita of political science at Hunter College and the Graduate Center, CUNY. To the Editor: Oh my, oh my! As a longtime resident of Minnesota’s Fifth Congressional District, and as someone who voted for Ilhan Omar, I now have some advice for her:  “Sit down, keep quiet for a while and learn your job. I don’t want to see your picture or any article about you in The New York Times again until the news is about something substantive like ... umm ... legislation. That’s why you were elected.” Judith Koll HealeyMinneapolis To the Editor: I am deeply shaken by the fault lines that have been exposed by the recent controversy around the influence wielded by the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, or Aipac. It is not anti-Semitic to hold Israel to the same standards as we do other nations. Many Jewish people, myself included, disagree with the current policies of the Israeli government, particularly with regard to the human rights of the Palestinian people, the occupied territories and the settlements.  Identity politics perpetuate stereotypes and prejudice and ultimately dehumanize us. We need to take a breath and have honest, good-faith discussions without throwing around accusations of anti-Semitism when we disagree. J. Sarah PosnerYork, Pa. To the Editor: Unless we Democrats stop squabbling over Israel and “the Benjamins” and proposing unaffordable “socialist” schemes, we will have another four years of a deeply conservative and erratic Trump administration. Democrats should instead concentrate on passing sensible legislation on issues that polls already show have the support of a majority of Americans. Don’t pontificate. Legislate! Peter FrostWilliamstown, Mass. To the Editor: I continue to applaud the election of two Muslim women to Congress, even though their presence and remarks have exacerbated tensions over Israel and anti-Semitism. They present us with a marvelous opportunity. As a rabbi on Long Island for many decades, I was very proud of my congregation’s establishment of an ongoing dialogue with a nearby mosque. The friendship that emerged enabled us to discuss many inflammatory subjects including Palestinian/Israeli crises, growing Islamophobia and the complicated distinction between criticism of Israel and anti-Semitism, which lies at the heart of the current controversy. Now is the time for synagogue and mosque leaders to reach out to each other, building trust and understanding. The Democrats can resolve their rift with patience and tolerance. American Jews and Muslims, natural allies facing a resurgence of racial and religious hatred, can do so, too.  Jerome K. DavidsonNew York

Supported by letters Readers discuss comments by Representative Ilhan Omar, the influence of a pro-Israel lobbying group and divisions within the Democratic Party.  To the Editor: Re “Rift Over Israel Has Democrats Divided by Age” (front page, March 6): Of course Democrats are more aggressive in combating prejudice within their own party. It’s both human nature and good diplomacy to hold your own family to higher standards than outsiders or adversaries (otherwise, you’d just look partisan and hypocritical). As an older American Jewish Democrat, I am as aghast as younger American Jews at Israel’s inhumane treatment of Palestinians. I encourage speaking out against it and I applaud Jewish-Palestinian collaboration. But anti-Semitic tropes about the power of Jewish money and the dual allegiance of American Jews are inexcusable aspersions in the face of what might otherwise be valid concerns. Jewish Democrats are fairly defending themselves against such tropes; if other groups — people of color, Muslims, Palestinians — criticize Jewish Democrats for not speaking up more forcefully on their behalf as well, that is fair, too. But why aren’t those other groups equally concerned about anti-Semitism? James BerkmanBoston To the Editor: “Concerns Raised Over Power Wielded by a Pro-Israel Lobbying Giant” (news article, March 5) provides useful information about the tactics the pro-Israel lobby uses to pressure and intimidate members of Congress. Until now, these methods have largely accomplished their goal: an almost total and unconditional refusal in Congress to question Israel’s human rights violations against Palestinians or the $3.8 billion in military aid we give to Israel each year. When Representative Ilhan Omar, one of only two Muslim congresswomen, dares to question this, she is pilloried and falsely accused of anti-Semitism. This is a disgrace. I am one of thousands of American Jews who applaud Ms. Omar for her courage and honesty and stand with her in objecting to Israel’s brutal and worsening policies toward Palestinians.  Ms. Omar speaks simple truth. Isn’t unconditional support of another country no matter its actions a form of allegiance to that country? Rosalind PetcheskyNew YorkThe writer is professor emerita of political science at Hunter College and the Graduate Center, CUNY. To the Editor: Oh my, oh my! As a longtime resident of Minnesota’s Fifth Congressional District, and as someone who voted for Ilhan Omar, I now have some advice for her:  “Sit down, keep quiet for a while and learn your job. I don’t want to see your picture or any article about you in The New York Times again until the news is about something substantive like ... umm ... legislation. That’s why you were elected.” Judith Koll HealeyMinneapolis To the Editor: I am deeply shaken by the fault lines that have been exposed by the recent controversy around the influence wielded by the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, or Aipac. It is not anti-Semitic to hold Israel to the same standards as we do other nations. Many Jewish people, myself included, disagree with the current policies of the Israeli government, particularly with regard to the human rights of the Palestinian people, the occupied territories and the settlements.  Identity politics perpetuate stereotypes and prejudice and ultimately dehumanize us. We need to take a breath and have honest, good-faith discussions without throwing around accusations of anti-Semitism when we disagree. J. Sarah PosnerYork, Pa. To the Editor: Unless we Democrats stop squabbling over Israel and “the Benjamins” and proposing unaffordable “socialist” schemes, we will have another four years of a deeply conservative and erratic Trump administration. Democrats should instead concentrate on passing sensible legislation on issues that polls already show have the support of a majority of Americans. Don’t pontificate. Legislate! Peter FrostWilliamstown, Mass. To the Editor: I continue to applaud the election of two Muslim women to Congress, even though their presence and remarks have exacerbated tensions over Israel and anti-Semitism. They present us with a marvelous opportunity. As a rabbi on Long Island for many decades, I was very proud of my congregation’s establishment of an ongoing dialogue with a nearby mosque. The friendship that emerged enabled us to discuss many inflammatory subjects including Palestinian/Israeli crises, growing Islamophobia and the complicated distinction between criticism of Israel and anti-Semitism, which lies at the heart of the current controversy. Now is the time for synagogue and mosque leaders to reach out to each other, building trust and understanding. The Democrats can resolve their rift with patience and tolerance. American Jews and Muslims, natural allies facing a resurgence of racial and religious hatred, can do so, too.  Jerome K. DavidsonNew YorkSupported by By Catie Edmondson WASHINGTON — The House passed the Democrats’ showcase anti-corruption and voting rights legislation on Friday, an expansive measure that aims to dismantle barriers to the ballot box, end big money in politics and impose stricter ethics rules on federal officials. The sweeping legislation, passed 234-193, makes good on the campaign pledge to clean up Washington that helped catapult Democrats into the majority. It also serves as a campaign platform for Democrats ahead of 2020. It has virtually no chance of passing the Senate. “It’s a power grab for the American people,” said Representative Zoe Lofgren of California, who leads the House administration committee that shepherded the legislation. The ambitious compendium, at nearly 700 pages, includes proposals designating Election Day as a federal holiday, automatically registering citizens to vote, and restoring voting rights to people who have served felony sentences. It also creates a six-to-one matching system for donations of up to $200 to congressional and presidential candidates who reject high-dollar contributions, funded by an additional fine on corporations found to have broken the law. Republicans arguably have spent more time trying to define the bill — called the For the People Act or H.R. 1, to underscore its primacy — and tear it down than Democrats have spent trying to promote it. Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, has branded it the “Democrat Politician Protection Act” in weekly speeches, and pledged not to take up the legislation. The House Republican leader, Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, also criticized the legislation. “This bill is a massive federal government takeover that would undermine the integrity of our elections,” Mr. McCarthy said in a speech on Friday, in an attack on “this new, Democrat, socialist majority.” Some of the most debated provisions are intended to reveal who funds online political ads and finances so-called dark-money groups. The Disclose Act, part of the bill, would require super PACs and nonprofit organizations that spend money in elections to disclose the names of donors who contribute more than $10,000. Democrats say such disclosure is broadly popular with voters across the political spectrum. “Congress cannot meaningfully address the nation’s significant challenges without first recognizing and acknowledging the undue influence of special interests in our politics,” said Representative Abigail Spanberger, Democrat of Virginia. Some of those provisions, however, have drawn criticism from both conservative and liberal groups that argue the language is overly broad and would infringe on First Amendment rights. The American Civil Liberties Union urged members to vote against the bill. Democrats have also used the legislation to make clear that they believe that cleanup must start with the White House, and included several provisions jabbing at the president and homing in on a laundry list of his administration’s alleged ethical abuses. It would require presidents and vice presidents, as well as candidates for the nation’s highest offices, to release at least 10 years of federal tax returns — Mr. Trump has released none — and it stipulates that inaugural committees must disclose their expenditures. And an amendment sponsored by Representative Raul Ruiz of California would prohibit federal funds from being spent at businesses owned or controlled by the president, the vice president or any cabinet official. Federal agencies spent about $13 million on four of Mr. Trump’s trips to his Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida in early 2017, according to a report by a nonpartisan congressional watchdog agency issued last month. Two other measures also zero in on the costs of administration officials’ travel. One provision would require the Defense Department to regularly report to Congress details of the costs of presidential travel; the other would prohibit political appointees from using federal funds to pay for travel on noncommercial or private flights for official business. “We must hold our government leaders to the highest standards, and with so many high-profile ethics violations in the past years, it is clear we have failed to do that,” Representative Tom O’Halleran, Democrat of Arizona and the sponsor of the amendments, said in a statement. Democrats also successfully put down an attempt by Republicans to divide the caucus and tar the legislation with a resolution expressing the sense that “allowing illegal immigrants the right to vote devalues the franchise and diminishes the voting power of United States citizens.” Republicans have repeatedly ambushed Democrats — twice successfully — with politically freighted procedural motions in a drive to divide Democrats and draw out vulnerable swing-district members. But determined not to let that taint their signature legislation and fired up by a rousing speech from freshman Representative Max Rose of New York, Democrats held steady.  

Supported by By Catie Edmondson WASHINGTON — The House passed the Democrats’ showcase anti-corruption and voting rights legislation on Friday, an expansive measure that aims to dismantle barriers to the ballot box, end big money in politics and impose stricter ethics rules on federal officials. The sweeping legislation, passed 234-193, makes good on the campaign pledge to clean up Washington that helped catapult Democrats into the majority. It also serves as a campaign platform for Democrats ahead of 2020. It has virtually no chance of passing the Senate. “It’s a power grab for the American people,” said Representative Zoe Lofgren of California, who leads the House administration committee that shepherded the legislation. The ambitious compendium, at nearly 700 pages, includes proposals designating Election Day as a federal holiday, automatically registering citizens to vote, and restoring voting rights to people who have served felony sentences. It also creates a six-to-one matching system for donations of up to $200 to congressional and presidential candidates who reject high-dollar contributions, funded by an additional fine on corporations found to have broken the law. Republicans arguably have spent more time trying to define the bill — called the For the People Act or H.R. 1, to underscore its primacy — and tear it down than Democrats have spent trying to promote it. Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, has branded it the “Democrat Politician Protection Act” in weekly speeches, and pledged not to take up the legislation. The House Republican leader, Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, also criticized the legislation. “This bill is a massive federal government takeover that would undermine the integrity of our elections,” Mr. McCarthy said in a speech on Friday, in an attack on “this new, Democrat, socialist majority.” Some of the most debated provisions are intended to reveal who funds online political ads and finances so-called dark-money groups. The Disclose Act, part of the bill, would require super PACs and nonprofit organizations that spend money in elections to disclose the names of donors who contribute more than $10,000. Democrats say such disclosure is broadly popular with voters across the political spectrum. “Congress cannot meaningfully address the nation’s significant challenges without first recognizing and acknowledging the undue influence of special interests in our politics,” said Representative Abigail Spanberger, Democrat of Virginia. Some of those provisions, however, have drawn criticism from both conservative and liberal groups that argue the language is overly broad and would infringe on First Amendment rights. The American Civil Liberties Union urged members to vote against the bill. Democrats have also used the legislation to make clear that they believe that cleanup must start with the White House, and included several provisions jabbing at the president and homing in on a laundry list of his administration’s alleged ethical abuses. It would require presidents and vice presidents, as well as candidates for the nation’s highest offices, to release at least 10 years of federal tax returns — Mr. Trump has released none — and it stipulates that inaugural committees must disclose their expenditures. And an amendment sponsored by Representative Raul Ruiz of California would prohibit federal funds from being spent at businesses owned or controlled by the president, the vice president or any cabinet official. Federal agencies spent about $13 million on four of Mr. Trump’s trips to his Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida in early 2017, according to a report by a nonpartisan congressional watchdog agency issued last month. Two other measures also zero in on the costs of administration officials’ travel. One provision would require the Defense Department to regularly report to Congress details of the costs of presidential travel; the other would prohibit political appointees from using federal funds to pay for travel on noncommercial or private flights for official business. “We must hold our government leaders to the highest standards, and with so many high-profile ethics violations in the past years, it is clear we have failed to do that,” Representative Tom O’Halleran, Democrat of Arizona and the sponsor of the amendments, said in a statement. Democrats also successfully put down an attempt by Republicans to divide the caucus and tar the legislation with a resolution expressing the sense that “allowing illegal immigrants the right to vote devalues the franchise and diminishes the voting power of United States citizens.” Republicans have repeatedly ambushed Democrats — twice successfully — with politically freighted procedural motions in a drive to divide Democrats and draw out vulnerable swing-district members. But determined not to let that taint their signature legislation and fired up by a rousing speech from freshman Representative Max Rose of New York, Democrats held steady.  Supported by By The Associated Press HARRISBURG, Pa. — To understand Pennsylvania's fast-changing political geography, look no further than Tom Killion. After Democrats recently flipped six state Senate seats in the suburbs of Philadelphia and Pittsburgh, Killion is one of the chamber's last Republicans standing in those areas — and target No. 1 for Democrats in 2020. That's when Pennsylvania will be a closely watched battleground in the presidential contest. Killion's Delaware County-based seat has been held by Republicans going back to the 1800s, but President Donald Trump may complicate things for him next year. "Have you been watching the elections?" Killion responded in an interview, when asked if his district was getting tougher to win. For now, Killion is a chief sponsor of legislation that sounds like a progressive Democrat's wish list: reducing gun violence, reaching 100% renewable energy by 2050 and imposing a tax on natural gas production to underwrite a multibillion-dollar infrastructure package. That last policy point is atop Democratic Gov. Tom Wolf's agenda. Located in Pennsylvania's southeastern corner, Killion's district is part of the heavily populated and politically moderate suburbs of Philadelphia. Once a bastion of Republican power, voter registration has shifted to favor Democrats over the past couple of decades, and Trump's election seemed to accelerate Republican losses and bolster Democrats' political activism there. Killion has served in the Legislature since 2003 and has stood with Republicans on some of Harrisburg's most partisan bills. He has attained a 69% lifetime rating from the American Conservative Union, in line with other suburban Republicans in Pennsylvania's Senate. Still, he said he has not shifted his legislative strategy to appear more liberal ahead of the 2020 election; he's always believed in working across party lines. He is also used to winning with ticket-splitting voters. But he acknowledged that Trump has changed voter views in Philadelphia's suburbs since 2016. "They're so angry at Trump that they're just pulling the straight D lever in the general election," Killion said. In 2017, Republicans hemorrhaged local government seats in Philadelphia's suburbs. Last year, the suburbs roared again , flipping three congressional seats outside Philadelphia and Pittsburgh to Democrats. Victories in state legislative races exceeded the expectations of Democratic strategists, and gave the party a majority of suburban Philadelphia's seats for the first time in modern history. In Pittsburgh's suburbs, Democrats picked up another state Senate seat in a special election two weeks ago , helping shrink last year's 34-16 Republican advantage in the Senate to 28-22. Those successes are raising Democrats' 2020 hopes of capturing the majority in a Senate controlled by Republicans for almost three decades. Pennsylvania's Senate and House are the last Republican-controlled legislative chambers in the northeastern United States. Killion is, perhaps, the most vulnerable. Last November, more than 60% of voters in his Republican-majority district backed Wolf and Democratic U.S. Sen. Bob Casey in their reelection bids . In 2016, 55% of voters there backed Democrat Hillary Clinton over Trump. Still, Killion won his election that year, despite Trump's poor showing in Philadelphia's suburbs on his way to winning the state. The state Senate's top Republican, President Pro Tempore Joe Scarnati of Jefferson County, dismisses Democrats' talk of winning a majority as just a fundraising strategy. The suburbs, he said, are not lost to Republicans. They have seen swings in momentum before, he said, and will swing back — possibly in 2020 when Democrats must defend three suburban seats with Trump on the ballot. "It's been real easy to beat up and criticize Donald Trump for a lot of reasons, because right now, Donald Trump has been running against himself," Scarnati said. "In 2020, there's going to be a Democratic candidate running against him and the people will have to decide: Do they want the extremism on the left or do they want Donald Trump back?" Democratic Party leaders in Delaware County said they won't take anything for granted in challenging Killion. But Democrats also say voters aren't simply angry — they are sophisticated and know Killion is a vote for Senate Republican leaders who will block a progressive agenda. "His first vote is for the Republican agenda and every vote after that is just for show," said David Marshall, executive director of the Senate Democrats' campaign arm. For Killion, his election strategy will, to some extent, be the same: rely on people who know him and what he's done for the area going back to his days on county council in the 1990s. But Killion suspects 2020 will also be different because of Trump. "I don't know if it'll affect me because I've been doing this for so long, people know me," Killion said. "But you've got to worry." ___ Follow Marc Levy on Twitter at www.twitter.com/timelywriter .

Supported by By The Associated Press HARRISBURG, Pa. — To understand Pennsylvania's fast-changing political geography, look no further than Tom Killion. After Democrats recently flipped six state Senate seats in the suburbs of Philadelphia and Pittsburgh, Killion is one of the chamber's last Republicans standing in those areas — and target No. 1 for Democrats in 2020. That's when Pennsylvania will be a closely watched battleground in the presidential contest. Killion's Delaware County-based seat has been held by Republicans going back to the 1800s, but President Donald Trump may complicate things for him next year. "Have you been watching the elections?" Killion responded in an interview, when asked if his district was getting tougher to win. For now, Killion is a chief sponsor of legislation that sounds like a progressive Democrat's wish list: reducing gun violence, reaching 100% renewable energy by 2050 and imposing a tax on natural gas production to underwrite a multibillion-dollar infrastructure package. That last policy point is atop Democratic Gov. Tom Wolf's agenda. Located in Pennsylvania's southeastern corner, Killion's district is part of the heavily populated and politically moderate suburbs of Philadelphia. Once a bastion of Republican power, voter registration has shifted to favor Democrats over the past couple of decades, and Trump's election seemed to accelerate Republican losses and bolster Democrats' political activism there. Killion has served in the Legislature since 2003 and has stood with Republicans on some of Harrisburg's most partisan bills. He has attained a 69% lifetime rating from the American Conservative Union, in line with other suburban Republicans in Pennsylvania's Senate. Still, he said he has not shifted his legislative strategy to appear more liberal ahead of the 2020 election; he's always believed in working across party lines. He is also used to winning with ticket-splitting voters. But he acknowledged that Trump has changed voter views in Philadelphia's suburbs since 2016. "They're so angry at Trump that they're just pulling the straight D lever in the general election," Killion said. In 2017, Republicans hemorrhaged local government seats in Philadelphia's suburbs. Last year, the suburbs roared again , flipping three congressional seats outside Philadelphia and Pittsburgh to Democrats. Victories in state legislative races exceeded the expectations of Democratic strategists, and gave the party a majority of suburban Philadelphia's seats for the first time in modern history. In Pittsburgh's suburbs, Democrats picked up another state Senate seat in a special election two weeks ago , helping shrink last year's 34-16 Republican advantage in the Senate to 28-22. Those successes are raising Democrats' 2020 hopes of capturing the majority in a Senate controlled by Republicans for almost three decades. Pennsylvania's Senate and House are the last Republican-controlled legislative chambers in the northeastern United States. Killion is, perhaps, the most vulnerable. Last November, more than 60% of voters in his Republican-majority district backed Wolf and Democratic U.S. Sen. Bob Casey in their reelection bids . In 2016, 55% of voters there backed Democrat Hillary Clinton over Trump. Still, Killion won his election that year, despite Trump's poor showing in Philadelphia's suburbs on his way to winning the state. The state Senate's top Republican, President Pro Tempore Joe Scarnati of Jefferson County, dismisses Democrats' talk of winning a majority as just a fundraising strategy. The suburbs, he said, are not lost to Republicans. They have seen swings in momentum before, he said, and will swing back — possibly in 2020 when Democrats must defend three suburban seats with Trump on the ballot. "It's been real easy to beat up and criticize Donald Trump for a lot of reasons, because right now, Donald Trump has been running against himself," Scarnati said. "In 2020, there's going to be a Democratic candidate running against him and the people will have to decide: Do they want the extremism on the left or do they want Donald Trump back?" Democratic Party leaders in Delaware County said they won't take anything for granted in challenging Killion. But Democrats also say voters aren't simply angry — they are sophisticated and know Killion is a vote for Senate Republican leaders who will block a progressive agenda. "His first vote is for the Republican agenda and every vote after that is just for show," said David Marshall, executive director of the Senate Democrats' campaign arm. For Killion, his election strategy will, to some extent, be the same: rely on people who know him and what he's done for the area going back to his days on county council in the 1990s. But Killion suspects 2020 will also be different because of Trump. "I don't know if it'll affect me because I've been doing this for so long, people know me," Killion said. "But you've got to worry." ___ Follow Marc Levy on Twitter at www.twitter.com/timelywriter .Supported by By The Associated Press LAS VEGAS — Ardently liberal, pro-labor and anti-corporate cash, the field of Democrats running for president may look like a union activist's dream. But some key labor leaders are starting to worry about the topics dominating the 2020 conversation. The candidates are spending too much time talking about esoteric issues like the Senate filibuster and the composition of the Supreme Court and not enough time speaking the language of workers, several union officials said. Those ideas may excite progressive activists, they said, but they risk alienating working-class voters. "They've got to pay attention to kitchen table economics," said Ted Pappageorge, president of the Las Vegas Culinary Union that represents 60,000 hotel and casino workers. "We don't quite see that." Terry McGowan, president of the International Union of Operating Engineers Local 139, in Wisconsin, said many of the issues driving the 2020 primary so far are distractions. "The people that are into politics, the people who like sideshows, they're into that," he said, citing the debates over reparations for slavery and immigration as examples. "The masses just want to feed their families." The unease may be an early warning sign for Democrats, who watched as many white, working-class voters, including many union members in key Rust Belt states, chose Trump three years ago. Democrats are hoping to win back some of those voters next year, a challenge that is made harder, some argue, by labor's struggle to build its membership and influence its rank and file. Democrats' early messages may not help, some said. "You see where some of the party's being driven. It's no secret," said Rusty McAllister, executive secretary of the Nevada AFL-CIO. McAllister pointed to "Medicare for all" — the health care proposal of choice for several candidates — as an example of Democrats' not seizing on labor's top priorities. Many unions already organized and fought for private health insurance for their members. "That's not something that I think that labor is as much focused on as some of the progressives are," McAllister said. Such concerns — which stretched from the progressive-minded organizing halls of Nevada to the Rust Belt precincts — were typically focused on the conversation, not the candidates. The early 2020 primary has included detours into debates over the Senate filibuster, the composition of the Supreme Court and breaking up technology companies. Ken Broadbent, business manager of the Pittsburgh-based Steamfitters Local 449, worried that Democrats are too focused on environmental plans like the Green New Deal, a blueprint for shifting the U.S. economy away from fossil fuels, and will neglect the importance of swing state Pennsylvania's rich natural gas deposits in creating jobs. "Jobs is where we've got to keep things focused," Broadbent said. To be sure, many unionists are excited about the presidential field. Contenders include liberal stalwarts like Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders, whose campaign became the first in U.S. history with a unionized workforce, and Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren, who joined striking Stop & Shop workers on a picket line in New Hampshire on Friday. California Sen. Kamala Harris hired a top Service Employees International Union executive for her campaign and made her first proposal one to raise teacher's pay. Former Vice President Joe Biden made clear that he plans to appeal to union workers, if he gets in the race. "You are coming back," he told the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers last week. "We need you back." Randi Weingarten, president of the American Federation of Teachers, said the competition in the crowded field has amplified workers voices and issues. She noted that prominent presidential candidates quickly supported Los Angeles public school teachers when they struck in January. Warren, Sanders, Harris and New Jersey Sen. Cory Booker have all proposed various taxes on higher-earning families, a departure from most past Democratic hopefuls who have treaded carefully on the issue. "It feels different than at other times," Weingarten said. "There is far more attention and focus on working people's economic needs." Major endorsements are likely several months away, especially because the labor movement is treading carefully after complaints that its leadership was too quick to back Hillary Clinton in the 2016 primary over Sanders. For labor, much is at stake. Despite Republican gains, particularly with trade union members, labor remains an essential part of the Democrats' coalition. Unions spent $169 million in 2018 on federal elections, largely on Democrats' behalf, according to the Center for Responsive Politics. Democrats won union workers by a strong 59%-39% margin in 2018, according to AP VoteCast, a national survey of the electorate. But other big donors and — small, online ones, too — increasingly compete with labor's organizing muscle as key to Democratic victories. Activists on a broad array of issues, from gay rights to criminal justice, compete with unions for candidates' attention. And the labor movement itself is split on its priorities, with some pushing for a focus on trade while other who represent more diverse workforces want to zoom in on immigration. All this comes as Republicans have pushed several state laws weakening organized labor. And, last year, the Supreme Court ruled that government workers can't be forced to contribute to the unions that represent them in collective bargaining, dealing a blow to public service union's pocketbooks. As candidates court unions for endorsements, labor leaders say they are listening for a comeback plan. Any proposal aimed at workers "must include ensuring the opportunity to join a union, no matter where you work, since that's the best way to raise wages, improve working conditions, create family-sustaining jobs and begin to fix our rigged economy and democracy," said SEIU president Mary Kay Henry. At a conference of North America's Building Trades Unions in Washington on Wednesday, several Democratic contenders talked about outlawing so-called "right to work" laws that prevent unions from automatically deducting dues from members, said the group's president, Sean McGarvey. But, he added, he heard "very little about the actual structural changes to the National Labor Relations Act, or things they could put in place to give people a real free choice to join a union." ___ This story has been corrected to provide the correct name of the group North America's Building Trades Unions.

Supported by By The Associated Press LAS VEGAS — Ardently liberal, pro-labor and anti-corporate cash, the field of Democrats running for president may look like a union activist's dream. But some key labor leaders are starting to worry about the topics dominating the 2020 conversation. The candidates are spending too much time talking about esoteric issues like the Senate filibuster and the composition of the Supreme Court and not enough time speaking the language of workers, several union officials said. Those ideas may excite progressive activists, they said, but they risk alienating working-class voters. "They've got to pay attention to kitchen table economics," said Ted Pappageorge, president of the Las Vegas Culinary Union that represents 60,000 hotel and casino workers. "We don't quite see that." Terry McGowan, president of the International Union of Operating Engineers Local 139, in Wisconsin, said many of the issues driving the 2020 primary so far are distractions. "The people that are into politics, the people who like sideshows, they're into that," he said, citing the debates over reparations for slavery and immigration as examples. "The masses just want to feed their families." The unease may be an early warning sign for Democrats, who watched as many white, working-class voters, including many union members in key Rust Belt states, chose Trump three years ago. Democrats are hoping to win back some of those voters next year, a challenge that is made harder, some argue, by labor's struggle to build its membership and influence its rank and file. Democrats' early messages may not help, some said. "You see where some of the party's being driven. It's no secret," said Rusty McAllister, executive secretary of the Nevada AFL-CIO. McAllister pointed to "Medicare for all" — the health care proposal of choice for several candidates — as an example of Democrats' not seizing on labor's top priorities. Many unions already organized and fought for private health insurance for their members. "That's not something that I think that labor is as much focused on as some of the progressives are," McAllister said. Such concerns — which stretched from the progressive-minded organizing halls of Nevada to the Rust Belt precincts — were typically focused on the conversation, not the candidates. The early 2020 primary has included detours into debates over the Senate filibuster, the composition of the Supreme Court and breaking up technology companies. Ken Broadbent, business manager of the Pittsburgh-based Steamfitters Local 449, worried that Democrats are too focused on environmental plans like the Green New Deal, a blueprint for shifting the U.S. economy away from fossil fuels, and will neglect the importance of swing state Pennsylvania's rich natural gas deposits in creating jobs. "Jobs is where we've got to keep things focused," Broadbent said. To be sure, many unionists are excited about the presidential field. Contenders include liberal stalwarts like Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders, whose campaign became the first in U.S. history with a unionized workforce, and Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren, who joined striking Stop & Shop workers on a picket line in New Hampshire on Friday. California Sen. Kamala Harris hired a top Service Employees International Union executive for her campaign and made her first proposal one to raise teacher's pay. Former Vice President Joe Biden made clear that he plans to appeal to union workers, if he gets in the race. "You are coming back," he told the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers last week. "We need you back." Randi Weingarten, president of the American Federation of Teachers, said the competition in the crowded field has amplified workers voices and issues. She noted that prominent presidential candidates quickly supported Los Angeles public school teachers when they struck in January. Warren, Sanders, Harris and New Jersey Sen. Cory Booker have all proposed various taxes on higher-earning families, a departure from most past Democratic hopefuls who have treaded carefully on the issue. "It feels different than at other times," Weingarten said. "There is far more attention and focus on working people's economic needs." Major endorsements are likely several months away, especially because the labor movement is treading carefully after complaints that its leadership was too quick to back Hillary Clinton in the 2016 primary over Sanders. For labor, much is at stake. Despite Republican gains, particularly with trade union members, labor remains an essential part of the Democrats' coalition. Unions spent $169 million in 2018 on federal elections, largely on Democrats' behalf, according to the Center for Responsive Politics. Democrats won union workers by a strong 59%-39% margin in 2018, according to AP VoteCast, a national survey of the electorate. But other big donors and — small, online ones, too — increasingly compete with labor's organizing muscle as key to Democratic victories. Activists on a broad array of issues, from gay rights to criminal justice, compete with unions for candidates' attention. And the labor movement itself is split on its priorities, with some pushing for a focus on trade while other who represent more diverse workforces want to zoom in on immigration. All this comes as Republicans have pushed several state laws weakening organized labor. And, last year, the Supreme Court ruled that government workers can't be forced to contribute to the unions that represent them in collective bargaining, dealing a blow to public service union's pocketbooks. As candidates court unions for endorsements, labor leaders say they are listening for a comeback plan. Any proposal aimed at workers "must include ensuring the opportunity to join a union, no matter where you work, since that's the best way to raise wages, improve working conditions, create family-sustaining jobs and begin to fix our rigged economy and democracy," said SEIU president Mary Kay Henry. At a conference of North America's Building Trades Unions in Washington on Wednesday, several Democratic contenders talked about outlawing so-called "right to work" laws that prevent unions from automatically deducting dues from members, said the group's president, Sean McGarvey. But, he added, he heard "very little about the actual structural changes to the National Labor Relations Act, or things they could put in place to give people a real free choice to join a union." ___ This story has been corrected to provide the correct name of the group North America's Building Trades Unions.Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — The chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, Rep. Jerrold Nadler, has issued a subpoena for special counsel Robert Mueller's full report as Democrats intensified their investigation of President Donald Trump, but leaders stopped short of liberal demands for impeachment proceedings. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi has insisted on a methodical, step-by-step approach to the House's oversight of the Trump administration, and she refuses to consider impeachment without public support, including from Republicans, which seems unlikely. But in light of Mueller's findings , Democratic leaders are under mounting pressure from the party's rising stars, deep-pocketed donors and even a presidential contender to seize the moment as a jumping-off point for trying to remove Trump from office. Speaking Friday in Belfast as Pelosi wrapped up a congressional visit to Ireland, she declined to signal action beyond Congress' role as a check and balance for the White House. "Let me assure you that whatever the issue and challenge we face, the Congress of the United States will honor its oath of office to protect and defend the Constitution of the United States to protect our democracy," she told reporters. "We believe that the first article — Article 1, the legislative branch — has the responsibility of oversight of our democracy, and we will exercise that." That approach isn't enough for some liberals who see in Trump's actions not just a president unfit for office but evidence of obstruction serious enough that Mueller said he could not declare Trump exonerated. Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, D-N.Y., is now signed on to an impeachment resolution from fellow Democratic Rep. Rashida Tlaib of Michigan, bringing new energy to the effort. Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass., a presidential candidate, said Friday the House "should initiate impeachment proceedings against the president." And billionaire Tom Steyer, a leading advocate of impeachment, has grown impatient with the House's pace of investigations and wants televised hearings to focus Americans' attention on Trump. "Let's get the show on the road," Steyer said in an interview Friday. "The Mueller report very clearly outlined obstruction by the president and basically said, I can't do anything about it, it's up to Congress to hold the president accountable." Democrats, though, may see greater power in pursuing an investigative effort, leaving impeachment on the shelf as a break-glass option. The Judiciary chairman, Nadler, D-N.Y., says he expects the Justice Department to comply with the committee's subpoena for the full report by May 1. That's the same day Attorney General William Barr is to testify before a Senate committee and one day before Barr is to appear before Nadler's panel. Nadler also has summoned Mueller to testify by May 23. "It now falls to Congress to determine the full scope of that alleged misconduct and to decide what steps we must take going forward," Nadler said. A Justice Department spokeswoman, Kerri Kupac, called Nadler's move "premature and unnecessary." Barr sent Congress a redacted version of the Mueller report, blacking out several types of material, including classified information, material pertaining to ongoing investigations and grand jury evidence. Nadler said he was open to working with the department on accommodations, but he also said the committee "needs and is entitled to the full version of the report and the underlying evidence consistent with past practice." But the committee's top Republican, Rep. Doug Collins of Georgia, said the subpoena was "wildly overbroad" and that Trump already had declined to assert executive privilege over the Mueller report in a move of "unprecedented openness." "This is politically convenient," Collins said, allowing the chairman "to grandstand and rail against the attorney general for not cooperating on an impossible timeline." Mueller's report provides fresh evidence of Trump's interference in the Russia investigation and challenges lawmakers to respond. For Congress, though, organizing an immediate response been complicated by the spring recess that left leadership in both parties away from Washington and rank-and-file lawmakers. GOP Leader Kevin McCarthy has been on a delegation trip to South America, and GOP Sen. Lindsey Graham, the top Republican on the Senate Judiciary Committee, has been in Africa. One Republican, Sen. Mitt Romney of Utah was one of the few who spoke out Friday, saying he was "sickened" by the report's findings of dishonesty at the highest levels of the administration, "including the president," and appalled that some Americans were working with Russians during the 2016 election. Pelosi will convene House Democrats for a conference call Monday, after the holiday weekend when many lawmakers are celebrating Easter and Passover. With Barr, Democrats expect a long battle ahead. The attorney general has come under intense scrutiny over his handling of the Mueller report and subsequent comments that have left him exposed to criticism he is acting in Trump's interest. Late Friday Democrats rejected an offer from Barr for a limited number of congressional leaders to view some of the redacted materials in a confidential setting. They said it was inadequate. It's unlikely that the full Mueller report or the special counsel's public testimony will untangle the dilemma that Democrats face. Mueller laid out multiple episodes in which Trump directed others to influence or curtail the Russia investigation after the special counsel's appointment in May 2017, and Trump made clear that he viewed the probe as a potential mortal blow — "the end of my presidency." Democratic leaders are walking a delicate line on what to do with Mueller's findings. The No. 2 Democrat, Rep. Steny Hoyer of Maryland, drew criticism for refusing to consider impeachment, and quickly revised his comments to say "all options ought to remain on the table." And Pelosi, in an interview last week, before the report's release, reiterated her "high bar" for impeachment. But she also didn't close the door on the option. "The fact is the president has engaged in activities that are unethical, un-American. ... In every way he is unfit to be president of the United States. Does that make it — is that an impeachable offense? Well it depends on what we see in the report." ___ Associated Press reporters Mary Clare Jalonick and Padmananda Rama in Washington, Jennifer Peltz in New York and Dylan Lovan in LaGrange, Kentucky, contributed to this report. ___ For complete coverage of the Mueller report, go to https://www.apnews.com/TrumpInvestigations

Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — The chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, Rep. Jerrold Nadler, has issued a subpoena for special counsel Robert Mueller's full report as Democrats intensified their investigation of President Donald Trump, but leaders stopped short of liberal demands for impeachment proceedings. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi has insisted on a methodical, step-by-step approach to the House's oversight of the Trump administration, and she refuses to consider impeachment without public support, including from Republicans, which seems unlikely. But in light of Mueller's findings , Democratic leaders are under mounting pressure from the party's rising stars, deep-pocketed donors and even a presidential contender to seize the moment as a jumping-off point for trying to remove Trump from office. Speaking Friday in Belfast as Pelosi wrapped up a congressional visit to Ireland, she declined to signal action beyond Congress' role as a check and balance for the White House. "Let me assure you that whatever the issue and challenge we face, the Congress of the United States will honor its oath of office to protect and defend the Constitution of the United States to protect our democracy," she told reporters. "We believe that the first article — Article 1, the legislative branch — has the responsibility of oversight of our democracy, and we will exercise that." That approach isn't enough for some liberals who see in Trump's actions not just a president unfit for office but evidence of obstruction serious enough that Mueller said he could not declare Trump exonerated. Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, D-N.Y., is now signed on to an impeachment resolution from fellow Democratic Rep. Rashida Tlaib of Michigan, bringing new energy to the effort. Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass., a presidential candidate, said Friday the House "should initiate impeachment proceedings against the president." And billionaire Tom Steyer, a leading advocate of impeachment, has grown impatient with the House's pace of investigations and wants televised hearings to focus Americans' attention on Trump. "Let's get the show on the road," Steyer said in an interview Friday. "The Mueller report very clearly outlined obstruction by the president and basically said, I can't do anything about it, it's up to Congress to hold the president accountable." Democrats, though, may see greater power in pursuing an investigative effort, leaving impeachment on the shelf as a break-glass option. The Judiciary chairman, Nadler, D-N.Y., says he expects the Justice Department to comply with the committee's subpoena for the full report by May 1. That's the same day Attorney General William Barr is to testify before a Senate committee and one day before Barr is to appear before Nadler's panel. Nadler also has summoned Mueller to testify by May 23. "It now falls to Congress to determine the full scope of that alleged misconduct and to decide what steps we must take going forward," Nadler said. A Justice Department spokeswoman, Kerri Kupac, called Nadler's move "premature and unnecessary." Barr sent Congress a redacted version of the Mueller report, blacking out several types of material, including classified information, material pertaining to ongoing investigations and grand jury evidence. Nadler said he was open to working with the department on accommodations, but he also said the committee "needs and is entitled to the full version of the report and the underlying evidence consistent with past practice." But the committee's top Republican, Rep. Doug Collins of Georgia, said the subpoena was "wildly overbroad" and that Trump already had declined to assert executive privilege over the Mueller report in a move of "unprecedented openness." "This is politically convenient," Collins said, allowing the chairman "to grandstand and rail against the attorney general for not cooperating on an impossible timeline." Mueller's report provides fresh evidence of Trump's interference in the Russia investigation and challenges lawmakers to respond. For Congress, though, organizing an immediate response been complicated by the spring recess that left leadership in both parties away from Washington and rank-and-file lawmakers. GOP Leader Kevin McCarthy has been on a delegation trip to South America, and GOP Sen. Lindsey Graham, the top Republican on the Senate Judiciary Committee, has been in Africa. One Republican, Sen. Mitt Romney of Utah was one of the few who spoke out Friday, saying he was "sickened" by the report's findings of dishonesty at the highest levels of the administration, "including the president," and appalled that some Americans were working with Russians during the 2016 election. Pelosi will convene House Democrats for a conference call Monday, after the holiday weekend when many lawmakers are celebrating Easter and Passover. With Barr, Democrats expect a long battle ahead. The attorney general has come under intense scrutiny over his handling of the Mueller report and subsequent comments that have left him exposed to criticism he is acting in Trump's interest. Late Friday Democrats rejected an offer from Barr for a limited number of congressional leaders to view some of the redacted materials in a confidential setting. They said it was inadequate. It's unlikely that the full Mueller report or the special counsel's public testimony will untangle the dilemma that Democrats face. Mueller laid out multiple episodes in which Trump directed others to influence or curtail the Russia investigation after the special counsel's appointment in May 2017, and Trump made clear that he viewed the probe as a potential mortal blow — "the end of my presidency." Democratic leaders are walking a delicate line on what to do with Mueller's findings. The No. 2 Democrat, Rep. Steny Hoyer of Maryland, drew criticism for refusing to consider impeachment, and quickly revised his comments to say "all options ought to remain on the table." And Pelosi, in an interview last week, before the report's release, reiterated her "high bar" for impeachment. But she also didn't close the door on the option. "The fact is the president has engaged in activities that are unethical, un-American. ... In every way he is unfit to be president of the United States. Does that make it — is that an impeachable offense? Well it depends on what we see in the report." ___ Associated Press reporters Mary Clare Jalonick and Padmananda Rama in Washington, Jennifer Peltz in New York and Dylan Lovan in LaGrange, Kentucky, contributed to this report. ___ For complete coverage of the Mueller report, go to https://www.apnews.com/TrumpInvestigationsSupported by By Robert Pear WASHINGTON — Democrats won control of the House in large part on the strength of their argument that Congress needs to protect people with pre-existing medical conditions and to lower the cost of health care. On Tuesday, Democratic leaders, including Speaker Nancy Pelosi, will put aside, at least for now, the liberal quest for a government-run “Medicare for all” single-payer system and unveil a more incremental approach toward fulfilling those campaign promises. Building on the Affordable Care Act, they would offer more generous subsidies for the purchase of private health insurance offered through the health law’s insurance exchanges while financing new efforts to increase enrollment. They would also reverse actions by the Trump administration that allow insurance companies to circumvent protections in the Affordable Care Act for people with pre-existing conditions. Insurers could no longer sell short-term health plans with skimpy benefits or higher premiums for people with chronic illnesses. Ms. Pelosi said the legislation would “strengthen protections for pre-existing conditions, reverse the G.O.P.’s health care sabotage and lower Americans’ health costs.” The legislative package, put together by Ms. Pelosi and several House committee chairmen, builds on the health law that the speaker was instrumental in passing — and that was signed by President Barack Obama almost exactly nine years ago. And it seems to answer a question facing Democrats since they took control of the House: How would they balance the expansive demands of their most liberal members with the needs of more pragmatic Democrats elected in seats that were held by Republicans? Ms. Pelosi, the committee chairmen and many other House Democrats see the new legislative package as a more efficient way of achieving universal coverage, a goal shared by champions of “Medicare for all,” led by Representatives Pramila Jayapal of Washington and Debbie Dingell of Michigan. Democrats said they would probably try to pass the legislative package piece by piece, with the first votes on the House floor expected in May. Some elements could win support from Republican House members and from the Republican-controlled Senate. With their new proposal, House Democratic leaders hope to finesse the disagreements within their caucus and to focus public attention instead on the gulf that separates Democrats of all stripes from President Trump on health care. In his latest budget request, Mr. Trump urged Congress again to repeal the expansion of Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act, which has provided coverage to at least 12 million people newly eligible for the program. Mr. Trump attacked Senator John McCain last week, seven months after his death, for casting a decisive vote against repeal of the 2010 health law. And in the economic report of the president, the White House boasted last week about how Mr. Trump had allowed small businesses and individual consumers to buy insurance plans that skirt many requirements of the Affordable Care Act, offering lower costs but fewer benefits. Under a rule issued in August, Mr. Trump greatly expanded the market for sales of short-term insurance plans that do not have to cover prescription drugs, maternity care, drug abuse treatment or pre-existing conditions. The House Democrats’ bill would turn back the president’s action by stipulating that short-term plans are included in the definition of “individual health insurance coverage” under the Affordable Care Act and therefore must comply with coverage requirements of the health law. “These junk plans discriminate against people with pre-existing conditions,” said Representative Frank Pallone Jr., Democrat of New Jersey and an architect of the new legislation. “They deny access to basic benefits. They set arbitrary dollar limits for health care services, leading to huge surprise bills for consumers.” “We passed the Affordable Care Act to rein in exactly these types of abuses,” said Mr. Pallone, who is investigating the short-term plan as chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee. The Affordable Care Act provides two main types of financial assistance to people of modest means buying private insurance: tax credits to help them pay premiums, and cost-sharing reductions to lower their deductibles, co-payments and other out-of-pocket costs. The House Democrats’ bill would revise the law to provide more of both types of assistance. In addition, the bill would make subsidies available to some working families who are now ineligible. The law, as interpreted by the Internal Revenue Service, bars subsidies to workers who have access to affordable employer-sponsored coverage for themselves — even if the cost of coverage for the entire family is unaffordable. The House Democrats’ bill would eliminate this quirk in the law, sometimes called the family glitch. The bill would also provide money to publicize the insurance options and subsidies available under the Affordable Care Act and to help people enroll. Mr. Trump has cut the budget for such efforts by more than 80 percent, saying the funds were no longer needed because people were now well aware of the law. House Democrats would also block guidance issued by the Trump administration under which states can get waivers allowing them to use federal funds to subsidize insurance that does not comply with coverage requirements in the Affordable Care Act. The Democrats’ package includes several measures proposed by freshmen. One, by Representative Angie Craig, Democrat of Minnesota, seeks to lower premiums by setting up reinsurance programs, using a combination of federal and state funds to help pay the largest claims. Minnesota and several other states have established such programs and are pleased with the results. The package will also include a bipartisan bill offered by Representative Andy Kim, a freshman Democrat from New Jersey, that would provide federal money to states that want to set up their own insurance marketplaces but have yet to do so. “With skyrocketing premiums in the federal marketplace, state-based exchanges have proven to be more effective at increasing the rate of coverage and lowering costs,” said Representative Brian Fitzpatrick, Republican of Pennsylvania, who helped write this proposal with Mr. Kim.    

Supported by By Robert Pear WASHINGTON — Democrats won control of the House in large part on the strength of their argument that Congress needs to protect people with pre-existing medical conditions and to lower the cost of health care. On Tuesday, Democratic leaders, including Speaker Nancy Pelosi, will put aside, at least for now, the liberal quest for a government-run “Medicare for all” single-payer system and unveil a more incremental approach toward fulfilling those campaign promises. Building on the Affordable Care Act, they would offer more generous subsidies for the purchase of private health insurance offered through the health law’s insurance exchanges while financing new efforts to increase enrollment. They would also reverse actions by the Trump administration that allow insurance companies to circumvent protections in the Affordable Care Act for people with pre-existing conditions. Insurers could no longer sell short-term health plans with skimpy benefits or higher premiums for people with chronic illnesses. Ms. Pelosi said the legislation would “strengthen protections for pre-existing conditions, reverse the G.O.P.’s health care sabotage and lower Americans’ health costs.” The legislative package, put together by Ms. Pelosi and several House committee chairmen, builds on the health law that the speaker was instrumental in passing — and that was signed by President Barack Obama almost exactly nine years ago. And it seems to answer a question facing Democrats since they took control of the House: How would they balance the expansive demands of their most liberal members with the needs of more pragmatic Democrats elected in seats that were held by Republicans? Ms. Pelosi, the committee chairmen and many other House Democrats see the new legislative package as a more efficient way of achieving universal coverage, a goal shared by champions of “Medicare for all,” led by Representatives Pramila Jayapal of Washington and Debbie Dingell of Michigan. Democrats said they would probably try to pass the legislative package piece by piece, with the first votes on the House floor expected in May. Some elements could win support from Republican House members and from the Republican-controlled Senate. With their new proposal, House Democratic leaders hope to finesse the disagreements within their caucus and to focus public attention instead on the gulf that separates Democrats of all stripes from President Trump on health care. In his latest budget request, Mr. Trump urged Congress again to repeal the expansion of Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act, which has provided coverage to at least 12 million people newly eligible for the program. Mr. Trump attacked Senator John McCain last week, seven months after his death, for casting a decisive vote against repeal of the 2010 health law. And in the economic report of the president, the White House boasted last week about how Mr. Trump had allowed small businesses and individual consumers to buy insurance plans that skirt many requirements of the Affordable Care Act, offering lower costs but fewer benefits. Under a rule issued in August, Mr. Trump greatly expanded the market for sales of short-term insurance plans that do not have to cover prescription drugs, maternity care, drug abuse treatment or pre-existing conditions. The House Democrats’ bill would turn back the president’s action by stipulating that short-term plans are included in the definition of “individual health insurance coverage” under the Affordable Care Act and therefore must comply with coverage requirements of the health law. “These junk plans discriminate against people with pre-existing conditions,” said Representative Frank Pallone Jr., Democrat of New Jersey and an architect of the new legislation. “They deny access to basic benefits. They set arbitrary dollar limits for health care services, leading to huge surprise bills for consumers.” “We passed the Affordable Care Act to rein in exactly these types of abuses,” said Mr. Pallone, who is investigating the short-term plan as chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee. The Affordable Care Act provides two main types of financial assistance to people of modest means buying private insurance: tax credits to help them pay premiums, and cost-sharing reductions to lower their deductibles, co-payments and other out-of-pocket costs. The House Democrats’ bill would revise the law to provide more of both types of assistance. In addition, the bill would make subsidies available to some working families who are now ineligible. The law, as interpreted by the Internal Revenue Service, bars subsidies to workers who have access to affordable employer-sponsored coverage for themselves — even if the cost of coverage for the entire family is unaffordable. The House Democrats’ bill would eliminate this quirk in the law, sometimes called the family glitch. The bill would also provide money to publicize the insurance options and subsidies available under the Affordable Care Act and to help people enroll. Mr. Trump has cut the budget for such efforts by more than 80 percent, saying the funds were no longer needed because people were now well aware of the law. House Democrats would also block guidance issued by the Trump administration under which states can get waivers allowing them to use federal funds to subsidize insurance that does not comply with coverage requirements in the Affordable Care Act. The Democrats’ package includes several measures proposed by freshmen. One, by Representative Angie Craig, Democrat of Minnesota, seeks to lower premiums by setting up reinsurance programs, using a combination of federal and state funds to help pay the largest claims. Minnesota and several other states have established such programs and are pleased with the results. The package will also include a bipartisan bill offered by Representative Andy Kim, a freshman Democrat from New Jersey, that would provide federal money to states that want to set up their own insurance marketplaces but have yet to do so. “With skyrocketing premiums in the federal marketplace, state-based exchanges have proven to be more effective at increasing the rate of coverage and lowering costs,” said Representative Brian Fitzpatrick, Republican of Pennsylvania, who helped write this proposal with Mr. Kim.    Supported by By Reuters (Reuters) - Vulnerable House Democrats, mindful of President Donald Trump's continued strength among Republican voters, are using caution in how they respond to the special counsel's report, which detailed Trump's efforts to thwart the investigation into Russian efforts to help him win the White House. More than 30 Democratic representatives, many of whom are in their first term, represent districts that supported Trump in 2016. The party's chances of keeping control of the U.S. House of Representatives likely hinge its ability to defend those seats. In the report released on Thursday, Special Counsel Robert Mueller said Trump may have obstructed justice and portrayed a president bent on stopping the probe into Russian meddling. But Mueller stopped short of concluding that a crime was committed, leaving it to Congress to make its own determination. That is putting pressure on congressional Democrats to decide whether to pursue impeachment charges against Trump, whose continued popularity with his Republican base could weigh heavily on Democratic lawmakers in swing districts. Those incumbent Democrats may have to strike a delicate balance on the campaign trail next year. Too much bashing of the president could turn off voters more interested in kitchen-table issues and motivate Trump sympathizers to rally around him. Hours after Mueller's findings were released, Abby Spanberger, a Democratic congresswoman from Virginia, held a town hall that saw virtually no discussion of the report. She knocked off a Republican incumbent last year in a district that favored Trump by more than 6 percentage points in 2016. The 39-year-old representative told reporters before the event that she was more interested in preventing Russia from attacking the electoral process than in "re-litigating" the 2016 presidential contest. "Regardless of what actions the president did or didn't take ... understanding in far greater detail the aggression of a foreign adversary nation against our election's infrastructure should ideally help us avoid such circumstances in the future," she said. Other Democrats facing reelection in swing districts also reacted cautiously, saying they would reserve judgment until after reading the voluminous report, or emphasizing the threat of Russian interference rather than Trump's behavior. "If the conclusion remains that there is no further criminal wrongdoing, I think we should, as a country, move on and ensure that Russia cannot interfere again," said Ben McAdams, a freshman Utah Democrat in a Republican-leaning district.  INTERNAL DEBATE The 448-page report's release has sparked an internal debate within the Democratic Party on how to move forward. Party leaders played down talk of impeachment, even as they said they would pursue a full, unredacted copy of the report and bring Mueller himself to Capitol Hill to testify under oath. At the same time, some liberal members of the caucus, including Representative Alexandra Ocasio-Cortez of New York, expressed support for starting an impeachment inquiry.  U.S. Representative Cheri Bustos, the Illinois Democrat who chairs the party's House campaign arm, set the tone for her most endangered colleagues on Thursday. In a statement, she said she would read the report carefully, then pivoted to other issues.  "As we review this report, I also remain committed to continuing my efforts to bring down the cost of health care, invest in our infrastructure and clean up the mess in Washington," Bustos said. Haley Stevens, a Michigan Democrat who won her first term last fall in a district that voted for Trump in 2016, told Reuters many Democrats were elected because "voters want checks and balances and a return to good government and government we can trust." Still, speaking after a town hall on Thursday evening, the 35-year-old emphasized that most voters going into 2020 are more concerned about issues such as health care, education and infrastructure. One of her constituents, Joy Marie Zug, said she voted for Trump in 2016 after having supported Democratic President Barack Obama. Zug says she has since soured on Trump due to his "lies." The 46-year-old adult education administrator said Democrats should consider impeachment, based on the mountain of evidence in the Mueller report. But in a reflection of the difficulty of the strategic choice facing Democrats, she also said they should avoid making it a top campaign issue. "I don't think this is something they need to run on," she said. "I just wish this wasn't the end." WEIGHING PRIORITIES Democrats looking to 2020 must also weigh whether voters' views on the Russia probe are even susceptible to persuasion, given the country's deep partisan divides. A Reuters/Ipsos poll conducted on Thursday and Friday after the report came out found 50 percent of Americans agreed that Trump or someone from his campaign worked with Russia during the campaign, and 58 percent of respondents said they believed Trump tried to stop investigations into the campaign's conduct. Those figures, which split heavily along party lines, were fairly similar to previous polls. One senior Democratic strategist involved in shaping the campaign message for 2020 House candidates, who asked for anonymity when discussing the party's internal thinking, said the party's own research showed the Russia probe was not particularly resonant for voters. Still, he said Mueller's findings would create the background "mood music" when Democrats talk in broad terms about corruption and government accountability.  (Reporting by Joseph Ax in New York; Additional reporting by Steve Friess in Livonia, Michigan; Gary Robertson in Henrico, Virginia; Susan Cornwell in Washington; and Chris Kahn in New York; Editing by Frank McGurty and Marla Dickerson)

Supported by By Reuters (Reuters) - Vulnerable House Democrats, mindful of President Donald Trump's continued strength among Republican voters, are using caution in how they respond to the special counsel's report, which detailed Trump's efforts to thwart the investigation into Russian efforts to help him win the White House. More than 30 Democratic representatives, many of whom are in their first term, represent districts that supported Trump in 2016. The party's chances of keeping control of the U.S. House of Representatives likely hinge its ability to defend those seats. In the report released on Thursday, Special Counsel Robert Mueller said Trump may have obstructed justice and portrayed a president bent on stopping the probe into Russian meddling. But Mueller stopped short of concluding that a crime was committed, leaving it to Congress to make its own determination. That is putting pressure on congressional Democrats to decide whether to pursue impeachment charges against Trump, whose continued popularity with his Republican base could weigh heavily on Democratic lawmakers in swing districts. Those incumbent Democrats may have to strike a delicate balance on the campaign trail next year. Too much bashing of the president could turn off voters more interested in kitchen-table issues and motivate Trump sympathizers to rally around him. Hours after Mueller's findings were released, Abby Spanberger, a Democratic congresswoman from Virginia, held a town hall that saw virtually no discussion of the report. She knocked off a Republican incumbent last year in a district that favored Trump by more than 6 percentage points in 2016. The 39-year-old representative told reporters before the event that she was more interested in preventing Russia from attacking the electoral process than in "re-litigating" the 2016 presidential contest. "Regardless of what actions the president did or didn't take ... understanding in far greater detail the aggression of a foreign adversary nation against our election's infrastructure should ideally help us avoid such circumstances in the future," she said. Other Democrats facing reelection in swing districts also reacted cautiously, saying they would reserve judgment until after reading the voluminous report, or emphasizing the threat of Russian interference rather than Trump's behavior. "If the conclusion remains that there is no further criminal wrongdoing, I think we should, as a country, move on and ensure that Russia cannot interfere again," said Ben McAdams, a freshman Utah Democrat in a Republican-leaning district.  INTERNAL DEBATE The 448-page report's release has sparked an internal debate within the Democratic Party on how to move forward. Party leaders played down talk of impeachment, even as they said they would pursue a full, unredacted copy of the report and bring Mueller himself to Capitol Hill to testify under oath. At the same time, some liberal members of the caucus, including Representative Alexandra Ocasio-Cortez of New York, expressed support for starting an impeachment inquiry.  U.S. Representative Cheri Bustos, the Illinois Democrat who chairs the party's House campaign arm, set the tone for her most endangered colleagues on Thursday. In a statement, she said she would read the report carefully, then pivoted to other issues.  "As we review this report, I also remain committed to continuing my efforts to bring down the cost of health care, invest in our infrastructure and clean up the mess in Washington," Bustos said. Haley Stevens, a Michigan Democrat who won her first term last fall in a district that voted for Trump in 2016, told Reuters many Democrats were elected because "voters want checks and balances and a return to good government and government we can trust." Still, speaking after a town hall on Thursday evening, the 35-year-old emphasized that most voters going into 2020 are more concerned about issues such as health care, education and infrastructure. One of her constituents, Joy Marie Zug, said she voted for Trump in 2016 after having supported Democratic President Barack Obama. Zug says she has since soured on Trump due to his "lies." The 46-year-old adult education administrator said Democrats should consider impeachment, based on the mountain of evidence in the Mueller report. But in a reflection of the difficulty of the strategic choice facing Democrats, she also said they should avoid making it a top campaign issue. "I don't think this is something they need to run on," she said. "I just wish this wasn't the end." WEIGHING PRIORITIES Democrats looking to 2020 must also weigh whether voters' views on the Russia probe are even susceptible to persuasion, given the country's deep partisan divides. A Reuters/Ipsos poll conducted on Thursday and Friday after the report came out found 50 percent of Americans agreed that Trump or someone from his campaign worked with Russia during the campaign, and 58 percent of respondents said they believed Trump tried to stop investigations into the campaign's conduct. Those figures, which split heavily along party lines, were fairly similar to previous polls. One senior Democratic strategist involved in shaping the campaign message for 2020 House candidates, who asked for anonymity when discussing the party's internal thinking, said the party's own research showed the Russia probe was not particularly resonant for voters. Still, he said Mueller's findings would create the background "mood music" when Democrats talk in broad terms about corruption and government accountability.  (Reporting by Joseph Ax in New York; Additional reporting by Steve Friess in Livonia, Michigan; Gary Robertson in Henrico, Virginia; Susan Cornwell in Washington; and Chris Kahn in New York; Editing by Frank McGurty and Marla Dickerson)Supported by By Reuters (Reuters) - Vulnerable House Democrats, mindful of President Donald Trump's continued strength among Republican voters, are using caution in how they respond to the special counsel's report, which detailed Trump's efforts to thwart the investigation into Russian efforts to help him win the White House. More than 30 Democratic representatives, many of whom are in their first term, represent districts that supported Trump in 2016. The party's chances of keeping control of the U.S. House of Representatives likely hinge its ability to defend those seats. In the report released on Thursday, Special Counsel Robert Mueller said Trump may have obstructed justice and portrayed a president bent on stopping the probe into Russian meddling. But Mueller stopped short of concluding that a crime was committed, leaving it to Congress to make its own determination. That is putting pressure on congressional Democrats to decide whether to pursue impeachment charges against Trump, whose continued popularity with his Republican base could weigh heavily on Democratic lawmakers in swing districts. Those incumbent Democrats may have to strike a delicate balance on the campaign trail next year. Too much bashing of the president could turn off voters more interested in kitchen-table issues and motivate Trump sympathizers to rally around him. Hours after Mueller's findings were released, Abby Spanberger, a Democratic congresswoman from Virginia, held a town hall that saw virtually no discussion of the report. She knocked off a Republican incumbent last year in a district that favored Trump by more than 6 percentage points in 2016. The 39-year-old representative told reporters before the event that she was more interested in preventing Russia from attacking the electoral process than in "re-litigating" the 2016 presidential contest. "Regardless of what actions the president did or didn't take ... understanding in far greater detail the aggression of a foreign adversary nation against our election's infrastructure should ideally help us avoid such circumstances in the future," she said. Other Democrats facing reelection in swing districts also reacted cautiously, saying they would reserve judgment until after reading the voluminous report, or emphasizing the threat of Russian interference rather than Trump's behavior. "If the conclusion remains that there is no further criminal wrongdoing, I think we should, as a country, move on and ensure that Russia cannot interfere again," said Ben McAdams, a freshman Utah Democrat in a Republican-leaning district.  INTERNAL DEBATE The 448-page report's release has sparked an internal debate within the Democratic Party on how to move forward. Party leaders played down talk of impeachment, even as they said they would pursue a full, unredacted copy of the report and bring Mueller himself to Capitol Hill to testify under oath. At the same time, some liberal members of the caucus, including Representative Alexandra Ocasio-Cortez of New York, expressed support for starting an impeachment inquiry.  U.S. Representative Cheri Bustos, the Illinois Democrat who chairs the party's House campaign arm, set the tone for her most endangered colleagues on Thursday. In a statement, she said she would read the report carefully, then pivoted to other issues.  "As we review this report, I also remain committed to continuing my efforts to bring down the cost of health care, invest in our infrastructure and clean up the mess in Washington," Bustos said. Haley Stevens, a Michigan Democrat who won her first term last fall in a district that voted for Trump in 2016, told Reuters many Democrats were elected because "voters want checks and balances and a return to good government and government we can trust." Still, speaking after a town hall on Thursday evening, the 35-year-old emphasized that most voters going into 2020 are more concerned about issues such as health care, education and infrastructure. One of her constituents, Joy Marie Zug, said she voted for Trump in 2016 after having supported Democratic President Barack Obama. Zug says she has since soured on Trump due to his "lies." The 46-year-old adult education administrator said Democrats should consider impeachment, based on the mountain of evidence in the Mueller report. But in a reflection of the difficulty of the strategic choice facing Democrats, she also said they should avoid making it a top campaign issue. "I don't think this is something they need to run on," she said. "I just wish this wasn't the end." WEIGHING PRIORITIES Democrats looking to 2020 must also weigh whether voters' views on the Russia probe are even susceptible to persuasion, given the country's deep partisan divides. A Reuters/Ipsos poll conducted on Thursday and Friday after the report came out found 50 percent of Americans agreed that Trump or someone from his campaign worked with Russia during the campaign, and 58 percent of respondents said they believed Trump tried to stop investigations into the campaign's conduct. Those figures, which split heavily along party lines, were fairly similar to previous polls. One senior Democratic strategist involved in shaping the campaign message for 2020 House candidates, who asked for anonymity when discussing the party's internal thinking, said the party's own research showed the Russia probe was not particularly resonant for voters. Still, he said Mueller's findings would create the background "mood music" when Democrats talk in broad terms about corruption and government accountability.  (Reporting by Joseph Ax in New York; Additional reporting by Steve Friess in Livonia, Michigan; Gary Robertson in Henrico, Virginia; Susan Cornwell in Washington; and Chris Kahn in New York; Editing by Frank McGurty and Marla Dickerson)

Supported by By Reuters (Reuters) - Vulnerable House Democrats, mindful of President Donald Trump's continued strength among Republican voters, are using caution in how they respond to the special counsel's report, which detailed Trump's efforts to thwart the investigation into Russian efforts to help him win the White House. More than 30 Democratic representatives, many of whom are in their first term, represent districts that supported Trump in 2016. The party's chances of keeping control of the U.S. House of Representatives likely hinge its ability to defend those seats. In the report released on Thursday, Special Counsel Robert Mueller said Trump may have obstructed justice and portrayed a president bent on stopping the probe into Russian meddling. But Mueller stopped short of concluding that a crime was committed, leaving it to Congress to make its own determination. That is putting pressure on congressional Democrats to decide whether to pursue impeachment charges against Trump, whose continued popularity with his Republican base could weigh heavily on Democratic lawmakers in swing districts. Those incumbent Democrats may have to strike a delicate balance on the campaign trail next year. Too much bashing of the president could turn off voters more interested in kitchen-table issues and motivate Trump sympathizers to rally around him. Hours after Mueller's findings were released, Abby Spanberger, a Democratic congresswoman from Virginia, held a town hall that saw virtually no discussion of the report. She knocked off a Republican incumbent last year in a district that favored Trump by more than 6 percentage points in 2016. The 39-year-old representative told reporters before the event that she was more interested in preventing Russia from attacking the electoral process than in "re-litigating" the 2016 presidential contest. "Regardless of what actions the president did or didn't take ... understanding in far greater detail the aggression of a foreign adversary nation against our election's infrastructure should ideally help us avoid such circumstances in the future," she said. Other Democrats facing reelection in swing districts also reacted cautiously, saying they would reserve judgment until after reading the voluminous report, or emphasizing the threat of Russian interference rather than Trump's behavior. "If the conclusion remains that there is no further criminal wrongdoing, I think we should, as a country, move on and ensure that Russia cannot interfere again," said Ben McAdams, a freshman Utah Democrat in a Republican-leaning district.  INTERNAL DEBATE The 448-page report's release has sparked an internal debate within the Democratic Party on how to move forward. Party leaders played down talk of impeachment, even as they said they would pursue a full, unredacted copy of the report and bring Mueller himself to Capitol Hill to testify under oath. At the same time, some liberal members of the caucus, including Representative Alexandra Ocasio-Cortez of New York, expressed support for starting an impeachment inquiry.  U.S. Representative Cheri Bustos, the Illinois Democrat who chairs the party's House campaign arm, set the tone for her most endangered colleagues on Thursday. In a statement, she said she would read the report carefully, then pivoted to other issues.  "As we review this report, I also remain committed to continuing my efforts to bring down the cost of health care, invest in our infrastructure and clean up the mess in Washington," Bustos said. Haley Stevens, a Michigan Democrat who won her first term last fall in a district that voted for Trump in 2016, told Reuters many Democrats were elected because "voters want checks and balances and a return to good government and government we can trust." Still, speaking after a town hall on Thursday evening, the 35-year-old emphasized that most voters going into 2020 are more concerned about issues such as health care, education and infrastructure. One of her constituents, Joy Marie Zug, said she voted for Trump in 2016 after having supported Democratic President Barack Obama. Zug says she has since soured on Trump due to his "lies." The 46-year-old adult education administrator said Democrats should consider impeachment, based on the mountain of evidence in the Mueller report. But in a reflection of the difficulty of the strategic choice facing Democrats, she also said they should avoid making it a top campaign issue. "I don't think this is something they need to run on," she said. "I just wish this wasn't the end." WEIGHING PRIORITIES Democrats looking to 2020 must also weigh whether voters' views on the Russia probe are even susceptible to persuasion, given the country's deep partisan divides. A Reuters/Ipsos poll conducted on Thursday and Friday after the report came out found 50 percent of Americans agreed that Trump or someone from his campaign worked with Russia during the campaign, and 58 percent of respondents said they believed Trump tried to stop investigations into the campaign's conduct. Those figures, which split heavily along party lines, were fairly similar to previous polls. One senior Democratic strategist involved in shaping the campaign message for 2020 House candidates, who asked for anonymity when discussing the party's internal thinking, said the party's own research showed the Russia probe was not particularly resonant for voters. Still, he said Mueller's findings would create the background "mood music" when Democrats talk in broad terms about corruption and government accountability.  (Reporting by Joseph Ax in New York; Additional reporting by Steve Friess in Livonia, Michigan; Gary Robertson in Henrico, Virginia; Susan Cornwell in Washington; and Chris Kahn in New York; Editing by Frank McGurty and Marla Dickerson)Supported by The most successful economic system shouldn’t be a dirty word. By Bret Stephens Opinion Columnist John Hickenlooper ought to be a poster child for American capitalism. After being laid off from his job as a geologist during the oil bust of the 1980s, he and his business partners turned an empty warehouse into a thriving brewery. It launched his political career, first as a problem-solving two-term mayor of Denver, then as a pragmatic two-term governor of Colorado, and now as a centrist candidate for the Democratic presidential nomination. Yet there he was on MSNBC’s “Morning Joe,” squirming in his seat as Joe Scarborough asked if he would call himself “a proud capitalist.” Hickenlooper protested the divisiveness of labels. He refused to reject the term “socialism.” He tried, like a vegetarian who still wants his bacon, to have it both ways: “There are parts of socialism, parts of capitalism, in everything.” But Hickenlooper did allow this: “We worked 70, 80, 90 hours a week to build the business; and we worked with the other business owners in [Lower Downtown Denver] to help them build their business. Is that capitalism? I guess.” He guessed right. Today, despite Friday’s disappointing jobs report, unemployment in the United States clocks in at a rock-bottom 3.8 percent. Wage growth, at 3.4 percent, is at a 10-year high. The median household income is as high as it has ever been. The United States is the world’s most competitive economy, as well as the wealthiest once you exclude small countries like Qatar.  None of this should be difficult to celebrate. An economy in which private property is protected, private enterprise is rewarded, markets set prices and profits provide incentives will, over time, generate more wealth, innovation and charity — and distribute each far more widely — than any form of central planning.  This is not a theory. It’s as true in Nordic countries like Denmark (often mislabeled “socialist”) as it is in hyper-capitalist Singapore. It’s the empirically verifiable conclusion from the 20th century’s bitter contest between capitalist and socialist states. It’s not a race we should have to run twice. Nor should it be hard for someone like Hickenlooper to acknowledge as much — while also insisting on the distinction between unrestrained and regulated capitalism, market prices and moral values. One of the reasons why the right-wing charge of “socialism” against the Democratic Party rarely stuck was that it was generally untrue. To smooth the edges of capitalism, even to save it from itself, doesn’t mean to disdain and disavow it.  There’s a difference between taming a horse and shooting it. Until about, oh, a year ago, few Democrats would have disagreed. Not anymore. Moderate Democrats are by no means an endangered species, but increasingly they act like a hunted one. Watching Hickenlooper, you could read his mind as if it were a chyron at the foot of the screen. Don’t say “proud capitalist,” John. Don’t say it. Twitter will kill me if I do. Death by Twitter mob — or pre-emptive surrender to it — is how politics is largely conducted these days. Is this good politics? I doubt it. As Geoffrey Kabaservice noted in the Guardian last November, “Nearly all of the Democrats who flipped the seats of moderate Republicans are themselves moderate. Few support the socialist agenda of Senator Bernie Sanders.” Progressive favorites like Andrew Gillum lost his race against a weak Republican opponent. And Joe Biden tops most Democratic primary polls by a wide margin.  It’s also especially bad politics for someone like Hickenlooper, who can’t get away with filibustering about the merits of capitalism if he hopes to get near the nomination. To the extent that Sanders’s concept of democratic socialism has gained traction, it’s not because capitalism has failed the masses. It’s because Sanders, beyond any of his peers, has consistent convictions and an authentic persona.  To prevail, a moderate Democrat will need to behave likewise. The message can go like this: Capitalism has worked for millions of Americans. It worked for me. We need to reform it so it can work for everyone. Is Hickenlooper the guy to do this? Doubtful. Then again, Donald Trump is gearing up to run a campaign based on a thriving economy (check), a country at peace (check), a mess of congressional investigations that will quickly confuse and bore the public (check), Democrats who want to turn Silicon Valley into a giant utility (check), an inconclusive Mueller report (likely check), and a Democratic Party that can neither bring itself to censure an anti-Semitic congresswoman nor publicly embrace the free-market system (check, check). Democrats still seem to think 2020 is going to be a referendum on the president. It’s not. It’s going to be a choice. Right now, the Trump campaign could hardly ask for a bigger favor from its overconfident opponents. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Bret L. Stephens has been an Opinion columnist with The Times since April 2017. He won a Pulitzer Prize for commentary at The Wall Street Journal in 2013 and was previously editor in chief of The Jerusalem Post.  @BretStephensNYT • Facebook 

Supported by The most successful economic system shouldn’t be a dirty word. By Bret Stephens Opinion Columnist John Hickenlooper ought to be a poster child for American capitalism. After being laid off from his job as a geologist during the oil bust of the 1980s, he and his business partners turned an empty warehouse into a thriving brewery. It launched his political career, first as a problem-solving two-term mayor of Denver, then as a pragmatic two-term governor of Colorado, and now as a centrist candidate for the Democratic presidential nomination. Yet there he was on MSNBC’s “Morning Joe,” squirming in his seat as Joe Scarborough asked if he would call himself “a proud capitalist.” Hickenlooper protested the divisiveness of labels. He refused to reject the term “socialism.” He tried, like a vegetarian who still wants his bacon, to have it both ways: “There are parts of socialism, parts of capitalism, in everything.” But Hickenlooper did allow this: “We worked 70, 80, 90 hours a week to build the business; and we worked with the other business owners in [Lower Downtown Denver] to help them build their business. Is that capitalism? I guess.” He guessed right. Today, despite Friday’s disappointing jobs report, unemployment in the United States clocks in at a rock-bottom 3.8 percent. Wage growth, at 3.4 percent, is at a 10-year high. The median household income is as high as it has ever been. The United States is the world’s most competitive economy, as well as the wealthiest once you exclude small countries like Qatar.  None of this should be difficult to celebrate. An economy in which private property is protected, private enterprise is rewarded, markets set prices and profits provide incentives will, over time, generate more wealth, innovation and charity — and distribute each far more widely — than any form of central planning.  This is not a theory. It’s as true in Nordic countries like Denmark (often mislabeled “socialist”) as it is in hyper-capitalist Singapore. It’s the empirically verifiable conclusion from the 20th century’s bitter contest between capitalist and socialist states. It’s not a race we should have to run twice. Nor should it be hard for someone like Hickenlooper to acknowledge as much — while also insisting on the distinction between unrestrained and regulated capitalism, market prices and moral values. One of the reasons why the right-wing charge of “socialism” against the Democratic Party rarely stuck was that it was generally untrue. To smooth the edges of capitalism, even to save it from itself, doesn’t mean to disdain and disavow it.  There’s a difference between taming a horse and shooting it. Until about, oh, a year ago, few Democrats would have disagreed. Not anymore. Moderate Democrats are by no means an endangered species, but increasingly they act like a hunted one. Watching Hickenlooper, you could read his mind as if it were a chyron at the foot of the screen. Don’t say “proud capitalist,” John. Don’t say it. Twitter will kill me if I do. Death by Twitter mob — or pre-emptive surrender to it — is how politics is largely conducted these days. Is this good politics? I doubt it. As Geoffrey Kabaservice noted in the Guardian last November, “Nearly all of the Democrats who flipped the seats of moderate Republicans are themselves moderate. Few support the socialist agenda of Senator Bernie Sanders.” Progressive favorites like Andrew Gillum lost his race against a weak Republican opponent. And Joe Biden tops most Democratic primary polls by a wide margin.  It’s also especially bad politics for someone like Hickenlooper, who can’t get away with filibustering about the merits of capitalism if he hopes to get near the nomination. To the extent that Sanders’s concept of democratic socialism has gained traction, it’s not because capitalism has failed the masses. It’s because Sanders, beyond any of his peers, has consistent convictions and an authentic persona.  To prevail, a moderate Democrat will need to behave likewise. The message can go like this: Capitalism has worked for millions of Americans. It worked for me. We need to reform it so it can work for everyone. Is Hickenlooper the guy to do this? Doubtful. Then again, Donald Trump is gearing up to run a campaign based on a thriving economy (check), a country at peace (check), a mess of congressional investigations that will quickly confuse and bore the public (check), Democrats who want to turn Silicon Valley into a giant utility (check), an inconclusive Mueller report (likely check), and a Democratic Party that can neither bring itself to censure an anti-Semitic congresswoman nor publicly embrace the free-market system (check, check). Democrats still seem to think 2020 is going to be a referendum on the president. It’s not. It’s going to be a choice. Right now, the Trump campaign could hardly ask for a bigger favor from its overconfident opponents. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Bret L. Stephens has been an Opinion columnist with The Times since April 2017. He won a Pulitzer Prize for commentary at The Wall Street Journal in 2013 and was previously editor in chief of The Jerusalem Post.  @BretStephensNYT • Facebook Supported by By Emily Cochrane WASHINGTON — Representative Adam B. Schiff, the chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, said on Sunday that House Democrats were prepared to go to court to force the release of the final report from the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, and subpoena Mr. Mueller to testify if it was not made public. Mr. Mueller, who has spent nearly two years investigating ties between the Trump campaign and Russia and whether President Trump tried to obstruct justice, is expected to submit his report to the Justice Department in the coming weeks, but the department is not required to release it. “We will take it to court if necessary,” Mr. Schiff, Democrat of California, said on ABC’s “This Week.” “And in the end, I think the department understands they’re going to have to make this public.” Justice Department regulations dictate that Mr. Mueller must submit a confidential report outlining his investigation and decisions to the attorney general, William P. Barr, who will then submit a summary to Congress. While he is required to explain the conclusion of the investigation, Mr. Barr has discretion about what additional details he provides. Mr. Barr, in his confirmation hearings, promised to be as transparent as possible under the special counsel regulations, which allow for discretion after criticism that the independent counsel Ken Starr’s lengthy report to Congress about President Bill Clinton’s sexual relationship with a White House intern was salacious. But Mr. Barr’s expansive views of executive power, coupled with a memo he wrote arguing that Mr. Trump did not obstruct justice by firing James B. Comey as F.B.I. director, have raised concerns among Democrats about his impartiality and his willingness to provide information that could be unflattering to the president. Mr. Schiff’s suggestion that Mr. Mueller and his report could be subpoenaed is among several possibilities Democrats are considering as part of an effort to make the report public. But it is unclear how successful efforts to subpoena Mr. Mueller would be. “I don’t know that you can,” Senator Roy Blunt, a Missouri Republican on the Senate Intelligence Committee, said when asked about the possibility of subpoenaing the report on CBS’s “Face the Nation.” He declined to say whether his committee would also ask Mr. Mueller to testify, saying only that “I think we’ll have to wait and see what’s in the report.” But Neal K. Katyal, who wrote the special counsel regulations in 1999, said Mr. Mueller’s testimony was “certainly possible” — and Mr. Barr is obligated to submit the report to Congress if the special counsel has found any indication of “potential wrongdoing” by the president. “The overall intent of the regulations, it’s said time and time again, is public confidence in the administration of justice,” Mr. Katyal, who was also acting solicitor general in the Obama administration, said on NBC’s “Meet the Press.” “And any sort of suppressed report about presidential wrongdoing will flunk that test.”

Supported by By Emily Cochrane WASHINGTON — Representative Adam B. Schiff, the chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, said on Sunday that House Democrats were prepared to go to court to force the release of the final report from the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, and subpoena Mr. Mueller to testify if it was not made public. Mr. Mueller, who has spent nearly two years investigating ties between the Trump campaign and Russia and whether President Trump tried to obstruct justice, is expected to submit his report to the Justice Department in the coming weeks, but the department is not required to release it. “We will take it to court if necessary,” Mr. Schiff, Democrat of California, said on ABC’s “This Week.” “And in the end, I think the department understands they’re going to have to make this public.” Justice Department regulations dictate that Mr. Mueller must submit a confidential report outlining his investigation and decisions to the attorney general, William P. Barr, who will then submit a summary to Congress. While he is required to explain the conclusion of the investigation, Mr. Barr has discretion about what additional details he provides. Mr. Barr, in his confirmation hearings, promised to be as transparent as possible under the special counsel regulations, which allow for discretion after criticism that the independent counsel Ken Starr’s lengthy report to Congress about President Bill Clinton’s sexual relationship with a White House intern was salacious. But Mr. Barr’s expansive views of executive power, coupled with a memo he wrote arguing that Mr. Trump did not obstruct justice by firing James B. Comey as F.B.I. director, have raised concerns among Democrats about his impartiality and his willingness to provide information that could be unflattering to the president. Mr. Schiff’s suggestion that Mr. Mueller and his report could be subpoenaed is among several possibilities Democrats are considering as part of an effort to make the report public. But it is unclear how successful efforts to subpoena Mr. Mueller would be. “I don’t know that you can,” Senator Roy Blunt, a Missouri Republican on the Senate Intelligence Committee, said when asked about the possibility of subpoenaing the report on CBS’s “Face the Nation.” He declined to say whether his committee would also ask Mr. Mueller to testify, saying only that “I think we’ll have to wait and see what’s in the report.” But Neal K. Katyal, who wrote the special counsel regulations in 1999, said Mr. Mueller’s testimony was “certainly possible” — and Mr. Barr is obligated to submit the report to Congress if the special counsel has found any indication of “potential wrongdoing” by the president. “The overall intent of the regulations, it’s said time and time again, is public confidence in the administration of justice,” Mr. Katyal, who was also acting solicitor general in the Obama administration, said on NBC’s “Meet the Press.” “And any sort of suppressed report about presidential wrongdoing will flunk that test.”Supported by By Matt Flegenheimer and Jonathan Martin Senator Elizabeth Warren, who has worked for months to find traction in a crowded Democratic presidential primary, stepped forward on Friday with a call to arms: President Trump must be impeached. What followed, generally, was conspicuous silence — and not just from her colleagues in Congress. After sidestepping the explosive issue of impeachment for months by citing the inquiry by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, most of the other 17 Democratic presidential candidates have responded to the special counsel’s report with tentative remarks about impeaching Mr. Trump, demands for the unredacted Mueller findings, calls for further hearings or attempts to simply change the subject. Anything, that is, to avoid clearly answering the question of whether lawmakers should remove the president from office. Underpinning the candidates’ calculations are complex sets of short- and long-term incentives. Democratic hopefuls could receive a fund-raising boost by embracing impeachment and energizing liberal donors. But some strategists and lawmakers say that a failed effort would only strengthen Mr. Trump’s re-election chances, allowing him to claim further vindication. And many of the candidates, facing a Democratic electorate appalled by Mr. Trump and eager to see him out of office, are weighing whether to risk alienating some progressives by staying silent or to call for impeachment and create a divide with top Democrats in Washington who oppose it. [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] For now, according to interviews with multiple Democratic campaign officials, most of the candidates feel no pressure to demand Mr. Trump’s impeachment because they simply do not hear a mass clamoring for it on the campaign trail. And in their polling, impeachment is not a top priority for the party’s voters, who say they are more motivated by defeating Mr. Trump in 2020 and seeing their desired policy agenda put in place. The Democratic contenders see the Mueller report mostly as a way to build their fund-raising and supporter lists and, ultimately, as a 448-page blunt instrument best used for thwacking the president in next year’s campaign for his behavior. Indeed, many candidates signaled this weekend that they had no plans to lead a charge for impeachment — Ms. Warren’s campaign hastened to note she would remain focused on her policy platform — and would instead defer to House Democrats. At least two prominent contenders, Mayor Pete Buttigieg of South Bend, Ind., and former Representative Beto O’Rourke of Texas, equivocated on how to proceed even as they acknowledged that they personally believed the president probably should be impeached. “I’m pretty sure he deserves to be,” Mr. Buttigieg said while campaigning in Londonderry, N.H. “But Congress will have to figure procedurally what to do.” “I wouldn’t blame any member of the House for voting for this,” Mr. O’Rourke said during an appearance in Nashua, N.H. He supported impeachment as a Senate candidate last year, but now suggests that the issue would be best resolved by the voters in November 2020. [Who’s in? Who’s out? Keep up with the 2020 field with our candidate tracker.] This measured response is partly a function of timing. Party activists have absorbed accounts of Mr. Trump’s aberrant behavior for nearly four years now, dating to the start of his presidential bid. As a result, Mr. Mueller’s report packed less shock value for Democrats who did not need his imprimatur to believe that Mr. Trump’s actions rise to the level of impeachable as well as criminal offenses. And for progressives who closely follow politics, the presidential race is well underway and the defeat of Mr. Trump is, they hope, just around the corner. Polls show that while a majority of Democrats still favor impeachment, support has waned in recent months as liberals move closer to a plausible end to the Trump presidency without congressional intervention. Many Democratic voters are also as cleareyed as their elected leaders about the Republican Party’s wide-scale deference to Mr. Trump — and the implausibility of congressional Republicans aiding his ouster. The country is far more polarized now than it was when President Richard Nixon resigned rather than face impeachment, and Republican lawmakers today fear the wrath of Mr. Trump and his loyal supporters far more than they do any punishment from a dwindling band of swing voters. A few Republicans did respond to the report with alarm, most notably Senator Mitt Romney of Utah, who said he was “sickened at the extent and pervasiveness of dishonesty and misdirection” by the president and some in his circle. But the nonchalant reaction from the vast majority of Mr. Trump’s party only reinforced to many Democratic activists that impeachment would be fruitless. “It galvanizes Trump supporters,” said Larry Drake, the chairman of the Rockingham County Democrats in New Hampshire, adding that he was quite certain that the president had committed impeachable offenses. “If he’s not convicted in the Senate, he can say, ‘Look, I was right! This was just a witch hunt.’ ” Mr. Drake has encountered fierce dissent from the pro-impeachment side in his own home. “My wife and I have been having a dialogue about this,” he said. “I guess that would be the nice way to put it.” Other Democrats say the party is making the matter more complicated than it needs to be, insisting that an impeachment case makes both civic and political sense. The civic argument: If lawmakers truly believe Mr. Trump deserves impeachment, how can political fears be allowed to override constitutional duties? The political one: The party can do more than one thing at a time. Candidates can campaign on other issues, as Ms. Warren says she will continue doing, while congressional Democrats build on Mr. Mueller’s findings. Besides, supporters of impeachment ask, why is anyone so sure that Mr. Trump would benefit from the public flogging of impeachment hearings during a campaign? “We reinforce his Teflon-ness by buying into this,” said Jennifer Palmieri, a former senior aide to Hillary Clinton and President Barack Obama. “Whether or not he’s Teflon is up to you, as a member of Congress.” Ms. Palmieri said Democrats had learned the wrong lessons from past episodes like the Republican push to impeach President Bill Clinton, which is thought to have hampered Republicans’ midterm performance in 1998 amid voter concerns about investigative overreach. “They look to the past, but you’ve got to look to the moment you’re in. And look at the moment we’re in,” Ms. Palmieri said of fellow Democrats. “It’s a self-fulfilling prophecy. If you stop pursuing what Mueller is putting in front of them, of course voters aren’t going to think it’s important. Voters respond to leadership.” And as Representative Steve Cohen of Tennessee observed, Mr. Trump’s 2020 campaign message will most likely be centered on incendiary attacks on the Democrats’ policy and identity more than on their efforts to hold him accountable. “Trump will have his team stoke on socialism or the ‘ism’ of the day, and impeachment will not be the siren needed to rally the base,” said Mr. Cohen, a Democratic member of the House Judiciary Committee. But Democrats in Washington are perhaps even more divided on the subject than the candidates for president are. While some progressive newcomers, like Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York, have called for impeachment proceedings, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and others in leadership have signaled a strong aversion, often echoed in the rank-and-file. Representative Emanuel Cleaver, Democrat of Missouri, said an impeachment effort would only help Mr. Trump’s cause and fuel his supporters’ feelings of grievance, without especially benefiting Democrats. “If we impeach Donald Trump, he would never be convicted in the Senate,” Mr. Cleaver said, referring to the Republican-held chamber’s role in an impeachment process. “And he would be able to campaign all around the country saying, ‘I’ve been acquitted!’” For some Democratic primary contenders, the demands may be different, reflecting the political realities of trying to establish a foothold in what is currently an 18-person field. In addition to Ms. Warren, former Mayor Julián Castro told CNN on Friday that initiating impeachment proceedings would be “perfectly reasonable.” The willingness of both contenders to support impeachment hearings amounts to a refusal to engage in the political gymnastics of their rivals — but also highlights the urgency they feel about their own campaigns. Mr. Castro has struggled to gain ground and is still working to attract enough individual donors to qualify for the first Democratic debate in June. Ms. Warren has remained in the middle of the pack despite entering the race before any other major candidate and unveiling an array of ambitious policy proposals. Ms. Warren has also sought to distinguish herself by refusing, at least in the primary, to appeal to major donors. This has increased pressure on her to raise money online from small-dollar givers. And in the hours after she announced her support for impeachment, she made the most of it, appearing on Rachel Maddow’s MSNBC show, the preferred programming of Mueller-minded Democrats, and posting a clip of it on her social media accounts. By midday Saturday, Ms. Warren had promoted her new stance on Instagram three times in less than 24 hours, adding a video clip from an appearance in Keene, N.H., earlier that day. “There are some things that are bigger than politics,” she told the crowd there, to cheers. “This is one of them.” But elsewhere on the trail, the Mueller report was little discussed. Campaigning in South Carolina after the document’s release, Senator Bernie Sanders held forth largely on affordable housing and the consequences of gentrification. At last, on Saturday morning, Mr. Sanders posted a video targeting Mr. Trump on Twitter — for breaking promises to manufacturing workers in the industrial Midwest. Matt Flegenheimer reported from New York and Jonathan Martin from Londonderry, N.H. Matt Stevens contributed reporting.   

Supported by By Matt Flegenheimer and Jonathan Martin Senator Elizabeth Warren, who has worked for months to find traction in a crowded Democratic presidential primary, stepped forward on Friday with a call to arms: President Trump must be impeached. What followed, generally, was conspicuous silence — and not just from her colleagues in Congress. After sidestepping the explosive issue of impeachment for months by citing the inquiry by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, most of the other 17 Democratic presidential candidates have responded to the special counsel’s report with tentative remarks about impeaching Mr. Trump, demands for the unredacted Mueller findings, calls for further hearings or attempts to simply change the subject. Anything, that is, to avoid clearly answering the question of whether lawmakers should remove the president from office. Underpinning the candidates’ calculations are complex sets of short- and long-term incentives. Democratic hopefuls could receive a fund-raising boost by embracing impeachment and energizing liberal donors. But some strategists and lawmakers say that a failed effort would only strengthen Mr. Trump’s re-election chances, allowing him to claim further vindication. And many of the candidates, facing a Democratic electorate appalled by Mr. Trump and eager to see him out of office, are weighing whether to risk alienating some progressives by staying silent or to call for impeachment and create a divide with top Democrats in Washington who oppose it. [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] For now, according to interviews with multiple Democratic campaign officials, most of the candidates feel no pressure to demand Mr. Trump’s impeachment because they simply do not hear a mass clamoring for it on the campaign trail. And in their polling, impeachment is not a top priority for the party’s voters, who say they are more motivated by defeating Mr. Trump in 2020 and seeing their desired policy agenda put in place. The Democratic contenders see the Mueller report mostly as a way to build their fund-raising and supporter lists and, ultimately, as a 448-page blunt instrument best used for thwacking the president in next year’s campaign for his behavior. Indeed, many candidates signaled this weekend that they had no plans to lead a charge for impeachment — Ms. Warren’s campaign hastened to note she would remain focused on her policy platform — and would instead defer to House Democrats. At least two prominent contenders, Mayor Pete Buttigieg of South Bend, Ind., and former Representative Beto O’Rourke of Texas, equivocated on how to proceed even as they acknowledged that they personally believed the president probably should be impeached. “I’m pretty sure he deserves to be,” Mr. Buttigieg said while campaigning in Londonderry, N.H. “But Congress will have to figure procedurally what to do.” “I wouldn’t blame any member of the House for voting for this,” Mr. O’Rourke said during an appearance in Nashua, N.H. He supported impeachment as a Senate candidate last year, but now suggests that the issue would be best resolved by the voters in November 2020. [Who’s in? Who’s out? Keep up with the 2020 field with our candidate tracker.] This measured response is partly a function of timing. Party activists have absorbed accounts of Mr. Trump’s aberrant behavior for nearly four years now, dating to the start of his presidential bid. As a result, Mr. Mueller’s report packed less shock value for Democrats who did not need his imprimatur to believe that Mr. Trump’s actions rise to the level of impeachable as well as criminal offenses. And for progressives who closely follow politics, the presidential race is well underway and the defeat of Mr. Trump is, they hope, just around the corner. Polls show that while a majority of Democrats still favor impeachment, support has waned in recent months as liberals move closer to a plausible end to the Trump presidency without congressional intervention. Many Democratic voters are also as cleareyed as their elected leaders about the Republican Party’s wide-scale deference to Mr. Trump — and the implausibility of congressional Republicans aiding his ouster. The country is far more polarized now than it was when President Richard Nixon resigned rather than face impeachment, and Republican lawmakers today fear the wrath of Mr. Trump and his loyal supporters far more than they do any punishment from a dwindling band of swing voters. A few Republicans did respond to the report with alarm, most notably Senator Mitt Romney of Utah, who said he was “sickened at the extent and pervasiveness of dishonesty and misdirection” by the president and some in his circle. But the nonchalant reaction from the vast majority of Mr. Trump’s party only reinforced to many Democratic activists that impeachment would be fruitless. “It galvanizes Trump supporters,” said Larry Drake, the chairman of the Rockingham County Democrats in New Hampshire, adding that he was quite certain that the president had committed impeachable offenses. “If he’s not convicted in the Senate, he can say, ‘Look, I was right! This was just a witch hunt.’ ” Mr. Drake has encountered fierce dissent from the pro-impeachment side in his own home. “My wife and I have been having a dialogue about this,” he said. “I guess that would be the nice way to put it.” Other Democrats say the party is making the matter more complicated than it needs to be, insisting that an impeachment case makes both civic and political sense. The civic argument: If lawmakers truly believe Mr. Trump deserves impeachment, how can political fears be allowed to override constitutional duties? The political one: The party can do more than one thing at a time. Candidates can campaign on other issues, as Ms. Warren says she will continue doing, while congressional Democrats build on Mr. Mueller’s findings. Besides, supporters of impeachment ask, why is anyone so sure that Mr. Trump would benefit from the public flogging of impeachment hearings during a campaign? “We reinforce his Teflon-ness by buying into this,” said Jennifer Palmieri, a former senior aide to Hillary Clinton and President Barack Obama. “Whether or not he’s Teflon is up to you, as a member of Congress.” Ms. Palmieri said Democrats had learned the wrong lessons from past episodes like the Republican push to impeach President Bill Clinton, which is thought to have hampered Republicans’ midterm performance in 1998 amid voter concerns about investigative overreach. “They look to the past, but you’ve got to look to the moment you’re in. And look at the moment we’re in,” Ms. Palmieri said of fellow Democrats. “It’s a self-fulfilling prophecy. If you stop pursuing what Mueller is putting in front of them, of course voters aren’t going to think it’s important. Voters respond to leadership.” And as Representative Steve Cohen of Tennessee observed, Mr. Trump’s 2020 campaign message will most likely be centered on incendiary attacks on the Democrats’ policy and identity more than on their efforts to hold him accountable. “Trump will have his team stoke on socialism or the ‘ism’ of the day, and impeachment will not be the siren needed to rally the base,” said Mr. Cohen, a Democratic member of the House Judiciary Committee. But Democrats in Washington are perhaps even more divided on the subject than the candidates for president are. While some progressive newcomers, like Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York, have called for impeachment proceedings, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and others in leadership have signaled a strong aversion, often echoed in the rank-and-file. Representative Emanuel Cleaver, Democrat of Missouri, said an impeachment effort would only help Mr. Trump’s cause and fuel his supporters’ feelings of grievance, without especially benefiting Democrats. “If we impeach Donald Trump, he would never be convicted in the Senate,” Mr. Cleaver said, referring to the Republican-held chamber’s role in an impeachment process. “And he would be able to campaign all around the country saying, ‘I’ve been acquitted!’” For some Democratic primary contenders, the demands may be different, reflecting the political realities of trying to establish a foothold in what is currently an 18-person field. In addition to Ms. Warren, former Mayor Julián Castro told CNN on Friday that initiating impeachment proceedings would be “perfectly reasonable.” The willingness of both contenders to support impeachment hearings amounts to a refusal to engage in the political gymnastics of their rivals — but also highlights the urgency they feel about their own campaigns. Mr. Castro has struggled to gain ground and is still working to attract enough individual donors to qualify for the first Democratic debate in June. Ms. Warren has remained in the middle of the pack despite entering the race before any other major candidate and unveiling an array of ambitious policy proposals. Ms. Warren has also sought to distinguish herself by refusing, at least in the primary, to appeal to major donors. This has increased pressure on her to raise money online from small-dollar givers. And in the hours after she announced her support for impeachment, she made the most of it, appearing on Rachel Maddow’s MSNBC show, the preferred programming of Mueller-minded Democrats, and posting a clip of it on her social media accounts. By midday Saturday, Ms. Warren had promoted her new stance on Instagram three times in less than 24 hours, adding a video clip from an appearance in Keene, N.H., earlier that day. “There are some things that are bigger than politics,” she told the crowd there, to cheers. “This is one of them.” But elsewhere on the trail, the Mueller report was little discussed. Campaigning in South Carolina after the document’s release, Senator Bernie Sanders held forth largely on affordable housing and the consequences of gentrification. At last, on Saturday morning, Mr. Sanders posted a video targeting Mr. Trump on Twitter — for breaking promises to manufacturing workers in the industrial Midwest. Matt Flegenheimer reported from New York and Jonathan Martin from Londonderry, N.H. Matt Stevens contributed reporting.   Supported by By Emily Cochrane WASHINGTON — Furious opposition from both the House Democrats’ most ardent liberals and their fiscal hawks forced Democratic leaders on Tuesday to delay voting on a two-year budget measure that would increase military and domestic spending, an embarrassing send-off as the new majority prepared to leave for a three-day retreat. The decision to indefinitely postpone the vote underscored the Democrats’ lack of unity almost 100 days into their majority and the challenge facing Speaker Nancy Pelosi and her leadership team as they try to bridge an ideological gap between upstart progressives flexing their muscles and more moderate members clinging to their Republican-leaning seats. “This is not an outcome,” Ms. Pelosi told reporters on Tuesday. “This is a process.” Asked if a spending deal was possible despite the party’s factions, Ms. Pelosi said, “Of course.” The bill — championed by Representatives John Yarmuth of Kentucky, the chairman of the House Budget Committee, and Nita M. Lowey of New York, the chairwoman of the House Appropriations Committee — would set higher military and domestic spending levels than the hard caps fixed in the Budget Control Act of 2011. It had been presented last week as a substitute to a broader budget blueprint that would have outlined policy priorities in health care, taxation, defense and other areas, as well as new spending limits. But liberals were angered by the continued increase in military spending and demanded even more money for domestic programs. Budget hawks worried about the unabated rise in spending with no effort to bring down a rising tide of red ink; the bill would increase military and domestic spending limits by more than $350 billion over the next two years. Republicans reveled in the disarray. Representative Steve Womack of Arkansas, the ranking Republican on the House Budget Committee, called it “another embarrassing failure to govern.” Some Democrats involved with the budget process played down the decision to shelve the vote, arguing that the best outcome in divided government would emerge from negotiations with the Republican majority in the Senate and the White House. They pointed to an agreement between Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, President Trump and Ms. Pelosi to allow staff to begin work on a two-year spending-caps deal in the coming weeks. Congress has previously negotiated deals to bypass the Budget Control Act caps, but a failure to act again before the fiscal year that begins in October would lead to automatic cuts totaling $125 billion. “I’m hoping this will be the beginning of a bipartisan agreement that will be necessary in order to have an orderly appropriations process not only this year, but next year as well,” Mr. McConnell told reporters. The prospect of bicameral talks was first raised in March, and Mr. McConnell called Ms. Pelosi to finalize plans on Tuesday afternoon, according to two aides briefed on the interactions. And lawmakers on Tuesday approved a procedural vote that set the top spending levels for negotiating spending bills for the next fiscal year — allowing appropriators to begin working on legislation that would fund the government through 2020. Representative Steny H. Hoyer, Democrat of Maryland and the majority leader, said earlier in the day that he plans to push for spending bills to be completed by the end of June to avoid another shutdown. Ultimately, the spending limits put forward by Mr. Yarmuth and Ms. Lowey could not secure the necessary 218 votes because of opposition from the Congressional Progressive Caucus and members of the fiscally conservative Blue Dog Coalition. In the hallway outside the chamber, representatives from the two groups stood just feet apart as they explained their different reasons for opposing the bill. “At some point, we’re going to have to pass something,” said Mr. Yarmuth, who made the decision not to hold a vote this week. “I’d love to do it as soon as possible.” Representative Mark Pocan of Wisconsin, one of the leaders of the Progressive Caucus, had told leadership in a private meeting on Tuesday morning that the caucus had enough votes to kill the caps bill, according to two people familiar with the meeting. And members of the Progressive Caucus celebrated the delay in voting, with Representative Pramila Jayapal of Washington, a chairwoman of the caucus, calling it “a big victory.” “It became clear that without real, strong progressive inclusion into the process of a bill, we’re not going to be able to get there,” Ms. Jayapal said. “Hopefully, everyone understands that the best chance of success for a united caucus is for us to be consulted and to be at the table.” Anticipating difficult negotiations with the Republican-controlled Senate, some liberals argued that the House should pass legislation that spends less on the military and more on domestic programs, understanding that those numbers would have to adjust as talks progress. “I don’t understand why we want to concede before waging the battle,” said Representative Ro Khanna, Democrat of California and a vice chairman of the Progressive Caucus. “You don’t wave the white flag of surrender before a single shot has fired.” Members of the caucus had also raised concerns about what they said was an imbalance between military and domestic spending during meetings this month, according to aides familiar with the conversations but unauthorized to discuss them publicly. The bill, which scraped through the Budget Committee, would raise the limits on domestic spending by 5.7 percent, to $631 billion in fiscal 2020 and $646 billion in fiscal 2021, compared to a 2.6 percent increase in military spending. Military limits would still rise, to $664 billion in the next fiscal year and $680 billion in fiscal 2021. Mr. Yarmuth and his allies faced additional pressure from the fiscally conservative Blue Dog Coalition, which balked at the decision to pass on a budget blueprint. Blue Dogs warned that the coalition would collectively block planned amendments from liberals that would increase domestic spending in the bill even further to win over the votes of Ms. Jayapal, Mr. Pocan and other liberals, according to a senior Democratic aide. “Any budget needed to hew toward fiscal responsibility, particularly at a time when we’re sitting at a $22 trillion debt,” said Representative Stephanie Murphy, Democrat of Florida and chairwoman of the Blue Dog Coalition. “It’s one of the key responsibilities of Congress.” On Tuesday, the group endorsed a constitutional amendment put forward by one of its freshman members, Representative Ben McAdams, Democrat of Utah, that would bar the federal government from spending more than it receives in a single fiscal year, except in the case of war or recession. The balanced budget amendment has been pushed by Republicans for decades. “It’s clearer than ever that the only way Congress will be able to produce a balanced budget is if it is required to do so by law,” said Representative Lou Correa, Democrat of California and a co-chairman of the coalition, in a statement. “Washington needs to have a serious, bipartisan discussion about our nation’s fiscal state.” There will be no more votes until April 29. Democrats are to spend three days at a Virginia retreat meant to help members bond before joining the rest of the House for a two-week spring recess. Catie Edmondson and Nicholas Fandos contributed reporting.   

Supported by By Emily Cochrane WASHINGTON — Furious opposition from both the House Democrats’ most ardent liberals and their fiscal hawks forced Democratic leaders on Tuesday to delay voting on a two-year budget measure that would increase military and domestic spending, an embarrassing send-off as the new majority prepared to leave for a three-day retreat. The decision to indefinitely postpone the vote underscored the Democrats’ lack of unity almost 100 days into their majority and the challenge facing Speaker Nancy Pelosi and her leadership team as they try to bridge an ideological gap between upstart progressives flexing their muscles and more moderate members clinging to their Republican-leaning seats. “This is not an outcome,” Ms. Pelosi told reporters on Tuesday. “This is a process.” Asked if a spending deal was possible despite the party’s factions, Ms. Pelosi said, “Of course.” The bill — championed by Representatives John Yarmuth of Kentucky, the chairman of the House Budget Committee, and Nita M. Lowey of New York, the chairwoman of the House Appropriations Committee — would set higher military and domestic spending levels than the hard caps fixed in the Budget Control Act of 2011. It had been presented last week as a substitute to a broader budget blueprint that would have outlined policy priorities in health care, taxation, defense and other areas, as well as new spending limits. But liberals were angered by the continued increase in military spending and demanded even more money for domestic programs. Budget hawks worried about the unabated rise in spending with no effort to bring down a rising tide of red ink; the bill would increase military and domestic spending limits by more than $350 billion over the next two years. Republicans reveled in the disarray. Representative Steve Womack of Arkansas, the ranking Republican on the House Budget Committee, called it “another embarrassing failure to govern.” Some Democrats involved with the budget process played down the decision to shelve the vote, arguing that the best outcome in divided government would emerge from negotiations with the Republican majority in the Senate and the White House. They pointed to an agreement between Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, President Trump and Ms. Pelosi to allow staff to begin work on a two-year spending-caps deal in the coming weeks. Congress has previously negotiated deals to bypass the Budget Control Act caps, but a failure to act again before the fiscal year that begins in October would lead to automatic cuts totaling $125 billion. “I’m hoping this will be the beginning of a bipartisan agreement that will be necessary in order to have an orderly appropriations process not only this year, but next year as well,” Mr. McConnell told reporters. The prospect of bicameral talks was first raised in March, and Mr. McConnell called Ms. Pelosi to finalize plans on Tuesday afternoon, according to two aides briefed on the interactions. And lawmakers on Tuesday approved a procedural vote that set the top spending levels for negotiating spending bills for the next fiscal year — allowing appropriators to begin working on legislation that would fund the government through 2020. Representative Steny H. Hoyer, Democrat of Maryland and the majority leader, said earlier in the day that he plans to push for spending bills to be completed by the end of June to avoid another shutdown. Ultimately, the spending limits put forward by Mr. Yarmuth and Ms. Lowey could not secure the necessary 218 votes because of opposition from the Congressional Progressive Caucus and members of the fiscally conservative Blue Dog Coalition. In the hallway outside the chamber, representatives from the two groups stood just feet apart as they explained their different reasons for opposing the bill. “At some point, we’re going to have to pass something,” said Mr. Yarmuth, who made the decision not to hold a vote this week. “I’d love to do it as soon as possible.” Representative Mark Pocan of Wisconsin, one of the leaders of the Progressive Caucus, had told leadership in a private meeting on Tuesday morning that the caucus had enough votes to kill the caps bill, according to two people familiar with the meeting. And members of the Progressive Caucus celebrated the delay in voting, with Representative Pramila Jayapal of Washington, a chairwoman of the caucus, calling it “a big victory.” “It became clear that without real, strong progressive inclusion into the process of a bill, we’re not going to be able to get there,” Ms. Jayapal said. “Hopefully, everyone understands that the best chance of success for a united caucus is for us to be consulted and to be at the table.” Anticipating difficult negotiations with the Republican-controlled Senate, some liberals argued that the House should pass legislation that spends less on the military and more on domestic programs, understanding that those numbers would have to adjust as talks progress. “I don’t understand why we want to concede before waging the battle,” said Representative Ro Khanna, Democrat of California and a vice chairman of the Progressive Caucus. “You don’t wave the white flag of surrender before a single shot has fired.” Members of the caucus had also raised concerns about what they said was an imbalance between military and domestic spending during meetings this month, according to aides familiar with the conversations but unauthorized to discuss them publicly. The bill, which scraped through the Budget Committee, would raise the limits on domestic spending by 5.7 percent, to $631 billion in fiscal 2020 and $646 billion in fiscal 2021, compared to a 2.6 percent increase in military spending. Military limits would still rise, to $664 billion in the next fiscal year and $680 billion in fiscal 2021. Mr. Yarmuth and his allies faced additional pressure from the fiscally conservative Blue Dog Coalition, which balked at the decision to pass on a budget blueprint. Blue Dogs warned that the coalition would collectively block planned amendments from liberals that would increase domestic spending in the bill even further to win over the votes of Ms. Jayapal, Mr. Pocan and other liberals, according to a senior Democratic aide. “Any budget needed to hew toward fiscal responsibility, particularly at a time when we’re sitting at a $22 trillion debt,” said Representative Stephanie Murphy, Democrat of Florida and chairwoman of the Blue Dog Coalition. “It’s one of the key responsibilities of Congress.” On Tuesday, the group endorsed a constitutional amendment put forward by one of its freshman members, Representative Ben McAdams, Democrat of Utah, that would bar the federal government from spending more than it receives in a single fiscal year, except in the case of war or recession. The balanced budget amendment has been pushed by Republicans for decades. “It’s clearer than ever that the only way Congress will be able to produce a balanced budget is if it is required to do so by law,” said Representative Lou Correa, Democrat of California and a co-chairman of the coalition, in a statement. “Washington needs to have a serious, bipartisan discussion about our nation’s fiscal state.” There will be no more votes until April 29. Democrats are to spend three days at a Virginia retreat meant to help members bond before joining the rest of the House for a two-week spring recess. Catie Edmondson and Nicholas Fandos contributed reporting.   Supported by Too often, progressive policies are difficult for Americans to understand, use and benefit from. By Tim Wu Mr. Wu is a law professor who has worked in federal and state government. One bright area in these dark days of American politics has been a blossoming of bold and interesting progressive policy ideas, such as wealth taxes, postal banking (offering basic financial services to customers who might not otherwise have access to them) and breaking up the giants of the tech industry. In the spirit of fresh starts, progressives should now confront an even more basic challenge: their complexity problem. In recent decades progressives have not prioritized making policies and programs easy for most Americans to understand, use and benefit from. Fixing this problem will mean overcoming a streak of perfectionism and a certain intellectual defensiveness, but it must be done if progressives are to make government popular again. The Affordable Care Act is a good example of the complexity problem. Yes, it was an important policy achievement, and yes, many of its problems can be rightly blamed on industry resistance and Republican efforts to dismantle it. But the act is also exceptionally hard to understand and discouragingly daunting to make use of. An emphasis on “choice” and “transparency” resulted in a law that only a rational-choice theorist could love. The act made health insurance more complicated, not less, which is one reason that such a high percentage of medical bills go to paying administrative costs, and why the Affordable Care Act is much less popular than it could be. It used to be said that a conservative is a liberal who has been mugged. Today she’s a liberal who tried to pay a babysitter without breaking the law. It is admirable that Democrats try to tackle society’s thorniest problems with the often unwieldy tools of government, but that is not an excuse for programs that are too complex for their own good. The truth is that good public policy can actually be elegant and simple to understand, even when the social problem that it’s addressing is complex. Social Security, Medicare, bans on indoor smoking, the “do not call” list (when it worked) and public libraries are examples of government solutions that are easy to understand and to benefit from. Avoidance of complexity and minimizing choices are hallmarks of good design, as we have learned from the technological revolution in user interfaces. The age of impossible-to-use computers and incomprehensible TV remote controls has given way to the sleek and intuitive interfaces offered by pioneers like Steve Jobs of Apple. What progressives most need now is not more brains, but better policy designers. One major obstacle to simple, effective public policy is people like me — the expert class. Many of us are in denial, seeing complexity as a necessary evil, an unavoidable feature of answers to hard problems, even a technocratic badge of honor. We criticize conservatives for relying on simplistic slogans like “cut taxes” and “drill, baby, drill” instead of nuanced, empirically informed assessments of economic growth and environmental management. Progressives are right to consider expertise essential to good policymaking. But policy experts are rarely good at interface design, for we have a bad habit of assuming that people have unlimited time and attention and that to respect them means offering complete transparency and a multiplicity of choices. Real respect for the public involves appreciating what the public actually wants and needs. The reality is that most Americans are short on time and attention and already swamped by millions of daily tasks and decisions. They would prefer that the government solve problems for them — not create more work for them. To be sure, not every interaction with government can be all sweetness and light. The business of government, after all, also involves confrontation, as when it ferrets out fraud or brings murderers to justice. And some challenges, like financial regulation and ensuring drug safety, are irreducibly complex. It is often said that today’s world is more complex than ever before — but for a good designer, that calls for more effort, not giving up. For what the public wants from government is help with complexity, not exposure to it. This generation of progressives, to achieve lasting success, must accept that simplicity and popularity are not a dumbing-down of policy, but rather the unavoidable requirement for its success. Tim Wu (@superwuster) is a law professor at Columbia, a contributing opinion writer and the author, most recently, of “The Curse of Bigness: Antitrust in the New Gilded Age.” The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported by Too often, progressive policies are difficult for Americans to understand, use and benefit from. By Tim Wu Mr. Wu is a law professor who has worked in federal and state government. One bright area in these dark days of American politics has been a blossoming of bold and interesting progressive policy ideas, such as wealth taxes, postal banking (offering basic financial services to customers who might not otherwise have access to them) and breaking up the giants of the tech industry. In the spirit of fresh starts, progressives should now confront an even more basic challenge: their complexity problem. In recent decades progressives have not prioritized making policies and programs easy for most Americans to understand, use and benefit from. Fixing this problem will mean overcoming a streak of perfectionism and a certain intellectual defensiveness, but it must be done if progressives are to make government popular again. The Affordable Care Act is a good example of the complexity problem. Yes, it was an important policy achievement, and yes, many of its problems can be rightly blamed on industry resistance and Republican efforts to dismantle it. But the act is also exceptionally hard to understand and discouragingly daunting to make use of. An emphasis on “choice” and “transparency” resulted in a law that only a rational-choice theorist could love. The act made health insurance more complicated, not less, which is one reason that such a high percentage of medical bills go to paying administrative costs, and why the Affordable Care Act is much less popular than it could be. It used to be said that a conservative is a liberal who has been mugged. Today she’s a liberal who tried to pay a babysitter without breaking the law. It is admirable that Democrats try to tackle society’s thorniest problems with the often unwieldy tools of government, but that is not an excuse for programs that are too complex for their own good. The truth is that good public policy can actually be elegant and simple to understand, even when the social problem that it’s addressing is complex. Social Security, Medicare, bans on indoor smoking, the “do not call” list (when it worked) and public libraries are examples of government solutions that are easy to understand and to benefit from. Avoidance of complexity and minimizing choices are hallmarks of good design, as we have learned from the technological revolution in user interfaces. The age of impossible-to-use computers and incomprehensible TV remote controls has given way to the sleek and intuitive interfaces offered by pioneers like Steve Jobs of Apple. What progressives most need now is not more brains, but better policy designers. One major obstacle to simple, effective public policy is people like me — the expert class. Many of us are in denial, seeing complexity as a necessary evil, an unavoidable feature of answers to hard problems, even a technocratic badge of honor. We criticize conservatives for relying on simplistic slogans like “cut taxes” and “drill, baby, drill” instead of nuanced, empirically informed assessments of economic growth and environmental management. Progressives are right to consider expertise essential to good policymaking. But policy experts are rarely good at interface design, for we have a bad habit of assuming that people have unlimited time and attention and that to respect them means offering complete transparency and a multiplicity of choices. Real respect for the public involves appreciating what the public actually wants and needs. The reality is that most Americans are short on time and attention and already swamped by millions of daily tasks and decisions. They would prefer that the government solve problems for them — not create more work for them. To be sure, not every interaction with government can be all sweetness and light. The business of government, after all, also involves confrontation, as when it ferrets out fraud or brings murderers to justice. And some challenges, like financial regulation and ensuring drug safety, are irreducibly complex. It is often said that today’s world is more complex than ever before — but for a good designer, that calls for more effort, not giving up. For what the public wants from government is help with complexity, not exposure to it. This generation of progressives, to achieve lasting success, must accept that simplicity and popularity are not a dumbing-down of policy, but rather the unavoidable requirement for its success. Tim Wu (@superwuster) is a law professor at Columbia, a contributing opinion writer and the author, most recently, of “The Curse of Bigness: Antitrust in the New Gilded Age.” The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — Under pressure to show they have solutions, Democrats are honing proposals to address the surge of families entering the U.S. at the southern border, a problem they say President Donald Trump's restrictive immigration policies are enflaming. House Democrats plan to introduce legislation soon addressing the recent waves of Central American migrants reaching the border. Senate Democrats are pursuing multiple tracks, including exploring whether talks with the White House might be feasible. The House measure, described by lawmakers, aides and lobbyists, would stand virtually no chance of winning approval by the Republican-led Senate, let alone getting Trump's signature. But it would let Democrats show voters they're responsive to the rush of migrants that has overwhelmed federal officials and left border communities struggling to cope — rather than simply objecting to Trump's moves. The bill, which participants said is still being finalized, is expected to increase federal resources at border entry points for processing refugees, counseling children and treating people needing medical care. It would create centers in Central America where asylum applications could be processed and provide aid to reduce poverty and violence in the region so fewer people would flee. "You don't just wait for people to show up at the border. It's the worst way to deal with it," said Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-Calif., who's working on the legislation with House Judiciary Committee Chairman Jerrold Nadler, D-N.Y., and party leaders. The measure represents Democrats' effort to find the sweet spot between addressing a burgeoning humanitarian crisis and not lending credibility to Trump's assertion that hordes of immigrants are invading the country. They say Trump has exacerbated the situation by aggressively detaining migrants caught entering the U.S. illegally and slowing the processing of asylum seekers, which can take months or longer. "This is a manufactured crisis," said Rep. Ruben Gallego, D-Ariz. Trump has accused Democrats of "obstructing." He complained Tuesday about their refusal to tighten asylum laws, restrict legal immigration by relatives of migrants already here or ban the release of detained migrants until their court dates — a practice used by recent administrations, including his own. "They don't want to act," Trump said. In the Senate, Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., a senior member of the Judiciary committee, said she plans to introduce a bill that would beef up immigration courts to reduce a huge backlog of cases and prohibit separations of migrant families . The measure would face an uphill climb. Sen. Dick Durbin, D-Ill., said Democrats were in early discussions about what legislation to craft and were trying to arrange meetings with the White House on the issue. But he cautioned that last year's collapse of immigration talks with Trump did not bode well. "This president is not an easy person to work with on this subject," said Durbin, Senate Democrats' No. 2 leader. No one disputes that the number of migrants seeking entry into the U.S. is swelling. Authorities were expecting to prevent 100,000 people, mostly families, from crossing the southern border last month, the most in 12 years. In response, Trump has moved to cut nearly $500 million in aid to Honduras, Guatemala and El Salvador, whose citizens have trekked toward the U.S. in growing numbers. He has curbed the number of asylum applications that authorities process. He has been blocked by a federal court from forcing refugees to wait in Mexico while their cases are decided. And he has warned he'll close the southwest border, a threat he's intermittently eased and renewed. Frustrated with his team's resistance to carry out some of his policy proposals, he's also replaced Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen and moved to purge other top officials at the department. Democrats, joined by many Republicans, said Trump's shake-up was unwise. "He doesn't like the law," said No. 2 House leader Steny Hoyer, D-Md. "And he's firing people who are determined that they have to act within the confines of the law. I think that's very dangerous." Trump says the U.S. faces a security and humanitarian calamity. In a letter to lawmakers last month, Nielsen asked for "immediate congressional assistance" to address "a system-wide meltdown." She requested funds for more detention beds, medical teams and processing facilities but specified no dollar amounts. Democrats are skeptical of such requests. "They've already taken and transferred money from things to their ridiculous wall," said Rep. Pramila Jayapal, D-Wash., referring to Trump's effort to build a border wall that Democrats have mocked as ineffective. "It's pretty difficult for me to say I'd give them more. I'd have a lot more accountability built in, and I'd cut the amount we're giving to Homeland Security until they can show us they really need it." Democrats contend that Trump's goal is to rile up his conservative voters as his 2020 re-election campaign gets underway. "He's shown that over and over, he's just anti-immigrant. And this is a campaign talking point for him," said Rep. Nanette Barragan, D-Calif. Republicans say Democrats are simply out to block Trump. "They don't want to give Trump any victory on anything, ever," said Rep. John Katko, R-N.Y., a member of the House Homeland Security Committee. ___ Associated Press writer Darlene Superville contributed to this report.

Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — Under pressure to show they have solutions, Democrats are honing proposals to address the surge of families entering the U.S. at the southern border, a problem they say President Donald Trump's restrictive immigration policies are enflaming. House Democrats plan to introduce legislation soon addressing the recent waves of Central American migrants reaching the border. Senate Democrats are pursuing multiple tracks, including exploring whether talks with the White House might be feasible. The House measure, described by lawmakers, aides and lobbyists, would stand virtually no chance of winning approval by the Republican-led Senate, let alone getting Trump's signature. But it would let Democrats show voters they're responsive to the rush of migrants that has overwhelmed federal officials and left border communities struggling to cope — rather than simply objecting to Trump's moves. The bill, which participants said is still being finalized, is expected to increase federal resources at border entry points for processing refugees, counseling children and treating people needing medical care. It would create centers in Central America where asylum applications could be processed and provide aid to reduce poverty and violence in the region so fewer people would flee. "You don't just wait for people to show up at the border. It's the worst way to deal with it," said Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-Calif., who's working on the legislation with House Judiciary Committee Chairman Jerrold Nadler, D-N.Y., and party leaders. The measure represents Democrats' effort to find the sweet spot between addressing a burgeoning humanitarian crisis and not lending credibility to Trump's assertion that hordes of immigrants are invading the country. They say Trump has exacerbated the situation by aggressively detaining migrants caught entering the U.S. illegally and slowing the processing of asylum seekers, which can take months or longer. "This is a manufactured crisis," said Rep. Ruben Gallego, D-Ariz. Trump has accused Democrats of "obstructing." He complained Tuesday about their refusal to tighten asylum laws, restrict legal immigration by relatives of migrants already here or ban the release of detained migrants until their court dates — a practice used by recent administrations, including his own. "They don't want to act," Trump said. In the Senate, Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., a senior member of the Judiciary committee, said she plans to introduce a bill that would beef up immigration courts to reduce a huge backlog of cases and prohibit separations of migrant families . The measure would face an uphill climb. Sen. Dick Durbin, D-Ill., said Democrats were in early discussions about what legislation to craft and were trying to arrange meetings with the White House on the issue. But he cautioned that last year's collapse of immigration talks with Trump did not bode well. "This president is not an easy person to work with on this subject," said Durbin, Senate Democrats' No. 2 leader. No one disputes that the number of migrants seeking entry into the U.S. is swelling. Authorities were expecting to prevent 100,000 people, mostly families, from crossing the southern border last month, the most in 12 years. In response, Trump has moved to cut nearly $500 million in aid to Honduras, Guatemala and El Salvador, whose citizens have trekked toward the U.S. in growing numbers. He has curbed the number of asylum applications that authorities process. He has been blocked by a federal court from forcing refugees to wait in Mexico while their cases are decided. And he has warned he'll close the southwest border, a threat he's intermittently eased and renewed. Frustrated with his team's resistance to carry out some of his policy proposals, he's also replaced Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen and moved to purge other top officials at the department. Democrats, joined by many Republicans, said Trump's shake-up was unwise. "He doesn't like the law," said No. 2 House leader Steny Hoyer, D-Md. "And he's firing people who are determined that they have to act within the confines of the law. I think that's very dangerous." Trump says the U.S. faces a security and humanitarian calamity. In a letter to lawmakers last month, Nielsen asked for "immediate congressional assistance" to address "a system-wide meltdown." She requested funds for more detention beds, medical teams and processing facilities but specified no dollar amounts. Democrats are skeptical of such requests. "They've already taken and transferred money from things to their ridiculous wall," said Rep. Pramila Jayapal, D-Wash., referring to Trump's effort to build a border wall that Democrats have mocked as ineffective. "It's pretty difficult for me to say I'd give them more. I'd have a lot more accountability built in, and I'd cut the amount we're giving to Homeland Security until they can show us they really need it." Democrats contend that Trump's goal is to rile up his conservative voters as his 2020 re-election campaign gets underway. "He's shown that over and over, he's just anti-immigrant. And this is a campaign talking point for him," said Rep. Nanette Barragan, D-Calif. Republicans say Democrats are simply out to block Trump. "They don't want to give Trump any victory on anything, ever," said Rep. John Katko, R-N.Y., a member of the House Homeland Security Committee. ___ Associated Press writer Darlene Superville contributed to this report.Supported by By The Associated Press RICHMOND, Va. — A series of scandals surrounding Virginia's top Democrats has made it difficult for them to raise money in a key election year. Gov. Ralph Northam, Lt. Gov. Justin Fairfax and Attorney General Mark Herring all posted anemic campaign finance reports Monday that are far below what their predecessors have raised at similar points in past election cycles. The trio was set to help use their name recognition and fundraising prowess to help Democrats flip control of the General Assembly later this year before several scandals erupted. Now it's unclear what kind of financial help they can bring. "When campaigns come looking for cash this fall, there just won't be any," said John March, spokesman for the Republican Party of Virginia. Northam first admitted, then denied that he'd appeared in a racist photo that surfaced in his medical school yearbook. He did say he wore blackface in the 1980s while dressed as Michael Jackson at a dance competition. Herring later admitted to wearing blackface in college, just days after calling for Northam to resign and after rumors of his own action began swirling in the capital. Two women came forward with allegations that Fairfax sexually assaulted them several years ago, allegations he denies. All three politicians have resisted calls to resign. All 140 legislative seats are up for grabs this year, when there are only three other states having legislative elections. Virginia is the only one where Democrats have a reasonable chance of flipping control of the legislature, and the contests will be closely watched as possible bellwethers for the 2020 election cycle. Lawmakers were not allowed to raise any money during this year's legislative session, but governors typically raise big bucks after the session ends. Former Gov. Terry McAuliffe raised more than $530,000 in 2015 after the session ended, and former Gov. Bob McDonnell raised $428,000, according to an analysis by the Virginia Public Access Project, a nonprofit money-in-politics tracker. Northam, by contrast, raised just $2,500 for his political action committee after the session ended this year. Northam reported spending $341,000 last quarter, including $25,000 at a law firm and $15,000 for a crisis communications firm a week after his scandal broke. He reported having about $1.2 million in the bank at the end of March. Fairfax did not raise any money after the session ended. Herring, who said last year he plans to run for governor in 2021, raised about $17,000 — far below the $64,000 he raised four years ago when the session finished. Northam has appeared to recover, for the most part, from his near-fatal political fall. He's back to making regular appearances, and Democrats and other allies who called on him to resign have signaled a willingness to work with him again. But he recently had to cancel an appearance at a fundraiser for Sen. Dave Marsden after protesters objected to the governor being there. He also canceled plans to be a commencement speaker at his alma mater, Virginia Military Institute, and won't participate in any other graduation ceremonies amid the persisting scandal, news outlets reported. Northam's spokeswoman Ofirah Yheskel said Monday that he decided weeks ago to skip ceremonies over concern he would divert focus from the graduates. While a governor's PACs have traditionally been the main source of a party's campaign cash during off-year legislative elections, Virginia's lax campaign finance rules make it easy for other groups to fill the void. Virginia has no limits on contribution amounts, and there are several Democratic groups actively raising money. "We will have the resources we need to finish the work we started in 2017 and flip the General Assembly blue," said Jake Rubenstein, spokesman for the Democratic Party of Virginia.

Supported by By The Associated Press RICHMOND, Va. — A series of scandals surrounding Virginia's top Democrats has made it difficult for them to raise money in a key election year. Gov. Ralph Northam, Lt. Gov. Justin Fairfax and Attorney General Mark Herring all posted anemic campaign finance reports Monday that are far below what their predecessors have raised at similar points in past election cycles. The trio was set to help use their name recognition and fundraising prowess to help Democrats flip control of the General Assembly later this year before several scandals erupted. Now it's unclear what kind of financial help they can bring. "When campaigns come looking for cash this fall, there just won't be any," said John March, spokesman for the Republican Party of Virginia. Northam first admitted, then denied that he'd appeared in a racist photo that surfaced in his medical school yearbook. He did say he wore blackface in the 1980s while dressed as Michael Jackson at a dance competition. Herring later admitted to wearing blackface in college, just days after calling for Northam to resign and after rumors of his own action began swirling in the capital. Two women came forward with allegations that Fairfax sexually assaulted them several years ago, allegations he denies. All three politicians have resisted calls to resign. All 140 legislative seats are up for grabs this year, when there are only three other states having legislative elections. Virginia is the only one where Democrats have a reasonable chance of flipping control of the legislature, and the contests will be closely watched as possible bellwethers for the 2020 election cycle. Lawmakers were not allowed to raise any money during this year's legislative session, but governors typically raise big bucks after the session ends. Former Gov. Terry McAuliffe raised more than $530,000 in 2015 after the session ended, and former Gov. Bob McDonnell raised $428,000, according to an analysis by the Virginia Public Access Project, a nonprofit money-in-politics tracker. Northam, by contrast, raised just $2,500 for his political action committee after the session ended this year. Northam reported spending $341,000 last quarter, including $25,000 at a law firm and $15,000 for a crisis communications firm a week after his scandal broke. He reported having about $1.2 million in the bank at the end of March. Fairfax did not raise any money after the session ended. Herring, who said last year he plans to run for governor in 2021, raised about $17,000 — far below the $64,000 he raised four years ago when the session finished. Northam has appeared to recover, for the most part, from his near-fatal political fall. He's back to making regular appearances, and Democrats and other allies who called on him to resign have signaled a willingness to work with him again. But he recently had to cancel an appearance at a fundraiser for Sen. Dave Marsden after protesters objected to the governor being there. He also canceled plans to be a commencement speaker at his alma mater, Virginia Military Institute, and won't participate in any other graduation ceremonies amid the persisting scandal, news outlets reported. Northam's spokeswoman Ofirah Yheskel said Monday that he decided weeks ago to skip ceremonies over concern he would divert focus from the graduates. While a governor's PACs have traditionally been the main source of a party's campaign cash during off-year legislative elections, Virginia's lax campaign finance rules make it easy for other groups to fill the void. Virginia has no limits on contribution amounts, and there are several Democratic groups actively raising money. "We will have the resources we need to finish the work we started in 2017 and flip the General Assembly blue," said Jake Rubenstein, spokesman for the Democratic Party of Virginia.Supported by By Nicholas Fandos WASHINGTON — The chairman of the House Judiciary Committee issued a subpoena on Friday demanding that the Justice Department hand over an unredacted version of Robert S. Mueller III’s report and the evidence underlying it by May 1, and pledged “major hearings” on its findings. The subpoena, one of the few issued thus far by House Democrats, escalates a fight with Attorney General William P. Barr over what material Congress is entitled to see from the special counsel’s nearly two-year investigation. The chairman, Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, asked for all evidence obtained by Mr. Mueller’s investigators, including summaries of witness interviews and classified intelligence — and indicated he intended to air it to the public. “Even the redacted version of the report outlines serious instances of wrongdoing by President Trump and some of his closest associates,” Mr. Nadler said in a statement. “It now falls to Congress to determine the full scope of that alleged misconduct and to decide what steps we must take going forward.” The subpoena was sent as House Democrats, who have the power to initiate impeachment proceedings if they so choose, debate how to proceed with the new evidence handed over Thursday by Mr. Mueller. Democratic-led committees have already initiated their own investigations of Russian election influence, as well as obstruction of justice and abuse of power, which can incorporate the findings in the shorter term. But there were also new calls in the wake of the report from the party’s left flank — including Senator Elizabeth Warren, a Massachusetts Democrat running for president — to go further and open a formal impeachment inquiry. Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California has publicly opposed impeachment unless Democrats can attract bipartisan support in the House and in the Republican-controlled Senate. That prospect appeared to be slim as Republican lawmakers embraced Mr. Barr’s conclusion that, despite the evidence collected, the president did not commit a crime. By Friday afternoon, though, at least one Senate Republican critical of Mr. Trump, Mitt Romney of Utah, offered a blistering assessment, calling the report “a sobering revelation of how far we have strayed from the aspirations and principles of the founders.” Still, he said, “the business of government can move on.” “I am sickened at the extent and pervasiveness of dishonesty and misdirection by individuals in the highest office of the land, including the president,” Mr. Romney said in a statement, adding that he was “appalled” that the president’s campaign would welcome help from a foreign adversary. Ms. Pelosi, for her part, has scheduled a conference call for all House Democrats on Monday to discuss the implications of what she called “a grave matter.” Lawmakers are scattered around the country on a two-week spring recess, and many are expected to observe the Passover and Easter holidays. We have laid out all 448 pages of the special counsel’s report to highlight the size of the redacted portions. A majority of those are because of ongoing investigations. Speaking to reporters in Belfast, Northern Ireland, where she was meeting with political leaders on Friday morning, Ms. Pelosi said she would not, as a matter of principle, criticize the president while out of the country. But she signaled that Congress would not sit by. “We believe that Article I, the legislative branch, has the responsibility of oversight of our democracy, and we will exercise that,” she said. Mr. Nadler’s May 1 deadline falls a day before Mr. Barr is scheduled to testify publicly before the Judiciary Committee in what is expected to be an explosive session where Democrats plan to excoriate his handling of the 448-page report and Republicans will urge their colleagues to accept that there was no criminality and move on. In addition to Mr. Barr’s testimony and an outstanding invitation for Mr. Mueller, Mr. Nadler said on Friday that he would hold additional hearings to “get to the bottom of this” and “educate the country as to what went on.” “The idea is not to decide whether to debate articles of impeachment — we may get to that point,” Mr. Nadler said in an interview with WNYC. “The idea is to find out exactly what went on, who did what, what institutional safeguards were gotten around and how, and then decide what to do about it.” He added, “But we have to lay this out for ourselves, the Congress and the American people, and then we’ll decide if we should go down one way or another.” Mr. Nadler’s Republican counterpart on the committee, Representative Doug Collins of Georgia, blasted the subpoena as “wildly overbroad” on Friday and encouraged Mr. Nadler to narrow its terms and extend the response time. As written, he said, Mr. Nadler was demanding “millions of records that would be plainly against the law to share” because of investigators’ extensive use of a grand jury. A Justice Department spokeswoman, Kerri Kupec, called the subpoena “premature and unnecessary” given Mr. Barr’s voluntary release of the report and offer to share more with lawmakers. “The department will continue to work with Congress to accommodate its legitimate requests consistent with the law and long-recognized executive branch interests,” she said. The findings from the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, are now available to the public. The redacted report details his two-year investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election. Mr. Barr released to Congress and the public a redacted copy of the report on Thursday. Though the redactions were less extensive than some Democrats feared, the Justice Department had blacked out sections of the report that it said contained classified material, secretive grand jury testimony or information that would affect investigations still underway. Democrats have been threatening to issue a subpoena for weeks, and the Justice Department on Thursday sought to head it off with a pledge to share more information with Congress. Stephen E. Boyd, an assistant attorney general, wrote in a letter that the department would allow the bipartisan leaders of the House and the Senate, as well as the heads of their judiciary and intelligence committees, to view a fuller version of the report beginning next week. But he said even that copy would still have secretive grand jury information blacked out because of legal requirements. Given the sensitive nature of the information, Mr. Boyd wrote, “all individuals reviewing the less-redacted version” must agree to keep the newly unredacted information confidential. Democrats in both the House and the Senate rejected the proposed accommodation as insufficient on Friday. “Unfortunately, your proposed accommodation — which among other things would prohibit discussion of the full report, even with other committee members — is not acceptable,” wrote the Democrats, including Ms. Pelosi, Mr. Nadler and other top members in the House and the Senate. They said they were “open to discussing a reasonable accommodation with the department that would protect law-enforcement-sensitive information while allowing Congress to fulfill its constitutional duties.” Mr. Nadler has repeatedly asked the Justice Department to join him in requesting that a court unseal the grand jury information, in particular, for Congress to review privately. Mr. Barr, in turn, has so far rejected that request, and Republicans have backed him up, arguing in effect that the Judiciary Committee is not entitled to such information unless the House authorizes a formal impeachment inquiry. Mr. Nadler’s requests put him at odds with his Senate counterpart, Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina and the leader of the Judiciary Committee. Mr. Graham has spoken supportively of Mr. Barr, said he accepts his conclusions and pledged to scrutinize the investigators who targeted Mr. Trump and his campaign. Like most other Senate Republicans, though, Mr. Graham has not commented on the details of Mr. Mueller’s report, which painted a damning portrait of Mr. Trump’s norm-bending campaign to thwart the special counsel investigation. Katie Benner contributed reporting. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.  OpinionMichelle Goldberg  

Supported by By Nicholas Fandos WASHINGTON — The chairman of the House Judiciary Committee issued a subpoena on Friday demanding that the Justice Department hand over an unredacted version of Robert S. Mueller III’s report and the evidence underlying it by May 1, and pledged “major hearings” on its findings. The subpoena, one of the few issued thus far by House Democrats, escalates a fight with Attorney General William P. Barr over what material Congress is entitled to see from the special counsel’s nearly two-year investigation. The chairman, Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, asked for all evidence obtained by Mr. Mueller’s investigators, including summaries of witness interviews and classified intelligence — and indicated he intended to air it to the public. “Even the redacted version of the report outlines serious instances of wrongdoing by President Trump and some of his closest associates,” Mr. Nadler said in a statement. “It now falls to Congress to determine the full scope of that alleged misconduct and to decide what steps we must take going forward.” The subpoena was sent as House Democrats, who have the power to initiate impeachment proceedings if they so choose, debate how to proceed with the new evidence handed over Thursday by Mr. Mueller. Democratic-led committees have already initiated their own investigations of Russian election influence, as well as obstruction of justice and abuse of power, which can incorporate the findings in the shorter term. But there were also new calls in the wake of the report from the party’s left flank — including Senator Elizabeth Warren, a Massachusetts Democrat running for president — to go further and open a formal impeachment inquiry. Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California has publicly opposed impeachment unless Democrats can attract bipartisan support in the House and in the Republican-controlled Senate. That prospect appeared to be slim as Republican lawmakers embraced Mr. Barr’s conclusion that, despite the evidence collected, the president did not commit a crime. By Friday afternoon, though, at least one Senate Republican critical of Mr. Trump, Mitt Romney of Utah, offered a blistering assessment, calling the report “a sobering revelation of how far we have strayed from the aspirations and principles of the founders.” Still, he said, “the business of government can move on.” “I am sickened at the extent and pervasiveness of dishonesty and misdirection by individuals in the highest office of the land, including the president,” Mr. Romney said in a statement, adding that he was “appalled” that the president’s campaign would welcome help from a foreign adversary. Ms. Pelosi, for her part, has scheduled a conference call for all House Democrats on Monday to discuss the implications of what she called “a grave matter.” Lawmakers are scattered around the country on a two-week spring recess, and many are expected to observe the Passover and Easter holidays. We have laid out all 448 pages of the special counsel’s report to highlight the size of the redacted portions. A majority of those are because of ongoing investigations. Speaking to reporters in Belfast, Northern Ireland, where she was meeting with political leaders on Friday morning, Ms. Pelosi said she would not, as a matter of principle, criticize the president while out of the country. But she signaled that Congress would not sit by. “We believe that Article I, the legislative branch, has the responsibility of oversight of our democracy, and we will exercise that,” she said. Mr. Nadler’s May 1 deadline falls a day before Mr. Barr is scheduled to testify publicly before the Judiciary Committee in what is expected to be an explosive session where Democrats plan to excoriate his handling of the 448-page report and Republicans will urge their colleagues to accept that there was no criminality and move on. In addition to Mr. Barr’s testimony and an outstanding invitation for Mr. Mueller, Mr. Nadler said on Friday that he would hold additional hearings to “get to the bottom of this” and “educate the country as to what went on.” “The idea is not to decide whether to debate articles of impeachment — we may get to that point,” Mr. Nadler said in an interview with WNYC. “The idea is to find out exactly what went on, who did what, what institutional safeguards were gotten around and how, and then decide what to do about it.” He added, “But we have to lay this out for ourselves, the Congress and the American people, and then we’ll decide if we should go down one way or another.” Mr. Nadler’s Republican counterpart on the committee, Representative Doug Collins of Georgia, blasted the subpoena as “wildly overbroad” on Friday and encouraged Mr. Nadler to narrow its terms and extend the response time. As written, he said, Mr. Nadler was demanding “millions of records that would be plainly against the law to share” because of investigators’ extensive use of a grand jury. A Justice Department spokeswoman, Kerri Kupec, called the subpoena “premature and unnecessary” given Mr. Barr’s voluntary release of the report and offer to share more with lawmakers. “The department will continue to work with Congress to accommodate its legitimate requests consistent with the law and long-recognized executive branch interests,” she said. The findings from the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, are now available to the public. The redacted report details his two-year investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election. Mr. Barr released to Congress and the public a redacted copy of the report on Thursday. Though the redactions were less extensive than some Democrats feared, the Justice Department had blacked out sections of the report that it said contained classified material, secretive grand jury testimony or information that would affect investigations still underway. Democrats have been threatening to issue a subpoena for weeks, and the Justice Department on Thursday sought to head it off with a pledge to share more information with Congress. Stephen E. Boyd, an assistant attorney general, wrote in a letter that the department would allow the bipartisan leaders of the House and the Senate, as well as the heads of their judiciary and intelligence committees, to view a fuller version of the report beginning next week. But he said even that copy would still have secretive grand jury information blacked out because of legal requirements. Given the sensitive nature of the information, Mr. Boyd wrote, “all individuals reviewing the less-redacted version” must agree to keep the newly unredacted information confidential. Democrats in both the House and the Senate rejected the proposed accommodation as insufficient on Friday. “Unfortunately, your proposed accommodation — which among other things would prohibit discussion of the full report, even with other committee members — is not acceptable,” wrote the Democrats, including Ms. Pelosi, Mr. Nadler and other top members in the House and the Senate. They said they were “open to discussing a reasonable accommodation with the department that would protect law-enforcement-sensitive information while allowing Congress to fulfill its constitutional duties.” Mr. Nadler has repeatedly asked the Justice Department to join him in requesting that a court unseal the grand jury information, in particular, for Congress to review privately. Mr. Barr, in turn, has so far rejected that request, and Republicans have backed him up, arguing in effect that the Judiciary Committee is not entitled to such information unless the House authorizes a formal impeachment inquiry. Mr. Nadler’s requests put him at odds with his Senate counterpart, Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina and the leader of the Judiciary Committee. Mr. Graham has spoken supportively of Mr. Barr, said he accepts his conclusions and pledged to scrutinize the investigators who targeted Mr. Trump and his campaign. Like most other Senate Republicans, though, Mr. Graham has not commented on the details of Mr. Mueller’s report, which painted a damning portrait of Mr. Trump’s norm-bending campaign to thwart the special counsel investigation. Katie Benner contributed reporting. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.  OpinionMichelle Goldberg  Supported by After two years of pining, Democrats finally have the gavels and subpoenas they need to investigate President Trump and his administration. Blockbuster findings? Don’t expect them anytime soon. By Nicholas Fandos WASHINGTON — Democrats, transitioning into the House majority, have quietly sent dozens of letters in recent weeks seeking documents and testimony from President Trump’s businesses, his campaign and his administration, setting the table for investigations that could reach the center of his presidency. Clear targets have emerged in the process, and some others appear to have fallen away, at least for now. Family separation and detention policies at the border have jumped to the forefront. So has the acting attorney general’s oversight of the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III. But Democrats, after slamming House Republicans for their inadequate inquiry, do not plan to reopen a full-scale Russian interference investigation. They have also chosen to hold off on an immediate request for Mr. Trump’s tax returns. For eager liberals coming off two years of Republican oversight paralysis, the next few weeks may feel something like a game of hurry up and wait. Arranging witnesses and wrangling sensitive government documents take time, and most House committees have yet to be populated with lawmakers, not to mention much of the legion of lawyers who will do a lot of the work of investigations. The Intelligence Committee did not technically have a chairman until last week. “Those people who are expecting some kind of Hollywood movie here are going to be disappointed because it is going be very orderly,” said Representative Jim Himes, Democrat of Connecticut and a senior member of the Intelligence Committee. Here is what Democrats will focus on first. The impasse over Mr. Trump’s proposed border wall and the death late last month of an 8-year-old boy from Guatemala in United States custody have catapulted the administration’s divisive policies at the border to the top of House Democrats’ agenda. Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, the Judiciary Committee chairman, and a handful of other chairmen plan to examine immigration policies. Their interest and detailed questions could prove problematic for Mr. Trump’s efforts to make a case for his border wall, shining a light on gaps in the current policy and trying to highlight the human toll on migrants. “We are calling on D.H.S. to preserve any and all evidence related to these horrible incidents,” the chairmen wrote. “We as a country can and must do better.” Mr. Nadler has already invited Matthew G. Whitaker, the acting attorney general, to be the committee’s first public hearing witness, and indicated on Wednesday that he would subpoena Mr. Whitaker if necessary to compel an appearance before the end of the month. Democrats are intent on pressing Mr. Whitaker on his involvement in the ousting of former Attorney General Jeff Sessions, his role in the oversight of the special counsel investigation and other policy matters, including the administration’s decision not to defend the Affordable Care Act in a lawsuit brought by Republican state attorneys general. Mr. Nadler has indicated that he intends to wait for Mr. Mueller to conclude his work before seriously considering an impeachment inquiry — a prospect weighing heavily on Democrats that could swamp other oversight efforts. But he said in December that the committee would begin investigating facts presented by federal prosecutors that strongly point to Mr. Trump’s involvement in hush-money payments just before the 2016 election to two women who claim to have had affairs with him, a violation of campaign finance law. They will also look at what Democrats view as “improper” communications between the president and federal law enforcement. After seething over Republican use of the House Intelligence Committee to turn an investigation of Russian interference in the 2016 election into an attempt to discredit the president’s investigators, Democrats plan to quickly flip the lens back on to Mr. Trump and his campaign itself. But the panel’s leaders have cautioned that their approach will be narrower than once predicted. “We are conscious of the fact that the Senate continues to do their work, Mueller continues to do his work, and at this point in the game, I would not expect the committee to announce an omnibus investigation,” Mr. Himes said. “The time has passed for that.” Instead, Democrats will initially pursue at least two questions — one discreet, the other potentially very complicated — that Republicans in control of the committee would not touch. The panel’s new chairman, Representative Adam B. Schiff of California, said it was initiating a request for phone records of the president’s eldest son, Donald Trump Jr., to clarify whom he called while arranging a June 2016 meeting at Trump Tower in Manhattan between members of the Trump campaign and a Russian lawyer. Phone records already in the hands of congressional investigators show a call was placed to a blocked number, and Donald Trump Jr. told investigators that he did not remember who he had called. Democrats believe the blocked number may have belonged to his father, and could prove that the president had prior knowledge of the Russian offer to share dirt on his opponent, Hillary Clinton. The committee would also like to request financial records related to Mr. Trump’s dealings with Russia and other foreign powers. Intelligence Committee Democrats appear to be circling around two well-known but still mysterious transactions: Mr. Trump’s sale of a Palm Beach, Fla., mansion to a Russian oligarch in 2008 and loans to the Trump Organization from Deutsche Bank. In the real estate case, Mr. Trump bought a Palm Beach estate for $41 million in 2004 and, only four years later, amid a national housing crisis, sold it to the Russian billionaire, Dmitry Rybolovlev, for $95 million. Democrats say the deal stinks of potential money laundering. Loans from Deutsche Bank — hundreds of millions of dollars extended by a bank later accused in an unrelated case of laundering Russian money during a time when few other major banks would lend to Mr. Trump’s businesses — also raise concerns that Russia could have financial leverage over the president. Democrats on the House Financial Services Committee, under Representative Maxine Waters of California, have also been asking questions about the Deutsche loans since early 2017, and plan to press their investigation ahead with the full powers of the majority. Democrats are prepared to subpoena the records if necessary. Mr. Schiff said staff had already begun informal conversations with institutions, potential witnesses and their lawyers about records requests, but because the panel has not technically been appointed yet, formal requests must wait — most likely until the end of January. Mr. Schiff declined to name specific witnesses except Michael D. Cohen, Mr. Trump’s former personal lawyer who has pleaded guilty to lying to Congress about the Trump Organization’s dealings with Russia and to buying the silence of two women who say they had affairs with Mr. Trump. Democrats tried more than a dozen times over the past two years to obtain Mr. Trump’s tax returns. But now that they finally have the opportunity to do so — thanks to an obscure 1920s tax code provision — the relevant Democratic committee chairman appears to be in no rush. In an effort to parry Republican accusations of overreach, the House Ways and Means chairman, Representative Richard E. Neal of Massachusetts, has decided instead to try to first build a public case for why the returns ought to become public before he lodges a formal request. He plans to convene a hearing this month focused on presidential tax returns in conjunction with sweeping anticorruption legislation that includes language requiring all presidents and candidates to make their returns public. Ultimately, Mr. Neal and Democrats do not need new laws. Sometime after the hearings — probably in February — Mr. Neal plans to invoke Section 6103 in the tax code, which allows chairmen of the House and Senate tax writing committees to request from the Treasury Department tax returns or related information on any tax filer. In theory, committee investigators could then privately study the returns for any compromising or illegal financial dealings. The committee would have to vote to make any of the information public. Whether the administration will put up a fight remains unclear. Mr. Trump has said publicly that he does not care if Democrats pursue the documents; Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, has said he will defer to legal counsel. There is, however, scant precedent for this particular case: Mr. Trump is the first president or major presidential candidate in decades to refuse to release his returns. Representative Elijah E. Cummings of Maryland, the chairman of the Oversight and Reform Committee, had a stern and straightforward message when he sent off 51 oversight letters to cabinet secretaries and Trump Organization lawyers shortly before Christmas: Consider this “a basic first step” and not a voluntary one. As he stands up the House’s marquee investigative committee, Mr. Cummings has deliberately chosen to begin with targets that Republicans once agreed should be studied, but failed to follow up on. They include records related to the administration’s response to Hurricanes Irma and Maria, which devastated American territories in the Caribbean; Ivanka Trump’s use of a private email account for government business; the use of government jets for personal travel; misconduct by the former Environmental Protection Agency administrator, Scott Pruitt; and the Flint, Mich., water crisis. Laying the groundwork to look for potential violations of the Constitution’s emoluments clause, which bans payments from foreign governments to federal officeholders, he wrote to the Trump Organization requesting documents related to the company’s procedures for identifying foreign payments.  In each, Mr. Cummings said he expected the documents by Friday.  Subpoenas could follow if they are not produced. But much of the committee’s investigative work is likely to remain private in the coming weeks.  Other targets appear to be imminent. Representative Carolyn B. Maloney, Democrat of New York, said she and Mr. Cummings agreed they would study what she called the Trump administration’s attempts to manipulate the 2020 census for political gain. “Our whole democracy is based on representation,” Ms. Maloney said, “and if there is a conscious effort to undercount representation, that is an attack fundamentally on our democracy.”  Nicholas Fandos is a reporter in the Washington bureau covering Congress.  @npfandos 

Supported by After two years of pining, Democrats finally have the gavels and subpoenas they need to investigate President Trump and his administration. Blockbuster findings? Don’t expect them anytime soon. By Nicholas Fandos WASHINGTON — Democrats, transitioning into the House majority, have quietly sent dozens of letters in recent weeks seeking documents and testimony from President Trump’s businesses, his campaign and his administration, setting the table for investigations that could reach the center of his presidency. Clear targets have emerged in the process, and some others appear to have fallen away, at least for now. Family separation and detention policies at the border have jumped to the forefront. So has the acting attorney general’s oversight of the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III. But Democrats, after slamming House Republicans for their inadequate inquiry, do not plan to reopen a full-scale Russian interference investigation. They have also chosen to hold off on an immediate request for Mr. Trump’s tax returns. For eager liberals coming off two years of Republican oversight paralysis, the next few weeks may feel something like a game of hurry up and wait. Arranging witnesses and wrangling sensitive government documents take time, and most House committees have yet to be populated with lawmakers, not to mention much of the legion of lawyers who will do a lot of the work of investigations. The Intelligence Committee did not technically have a chairman until last week. “Those people who are expecting some kind of Hollywood movie here are going to be disappointed because it is going be very orderly,” said Representative Jim Himes, Democrat of Connecticut and a senior member of the Intelligence Committee. Here is what Democrats will focus on first. The impasse over Mr. Trump’s proposed border wall and the death late last month of an 8-year-old boy from Guatemala in United States custody have catapulted the administration’s divisive policies at the border to the top of House Democrats’ agenda. Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, the Judiciary Committee chairman, and a handful of other chairmen plan to examine immigration policies. Their interest and detailed questions could prove problematic for Mr. Trump’s efforts to make a case for his border wall, shining a light on gaps in the current policy and trying to highlight the human toll on migrants. “We are calling on D.H.S. to preserve any and all evidence related to these horrible incidents,” the chairmen wrote. “We as a country can and must do better.” Mr. Nadler has already invited Matthew G. Whitaker, the acting attorney general, to be the committee’s first public hearing witness, and indicated on Wednesday that he would subpoena Mr. Whitaker if necessary to compel an appearance before the end of the month. Democrats are intent on pressing Mr. Whitaker on his involvement in the ousting of former Attorney General Jeff Sessions, his role in the oversight of the special counsel investigation and other policy matters, including the administration’s decision not to defend the Affordable Care Act in a lawsuit brought by Republican state attorneys general. Mr. Nadler has indicated that he intends to wait for Mr. Mueller to conclude his work before seriously considering an impeachment inquiry — a prospect weighing heavily on Democrats that could swamp other oversight efforts. But he said in December that the committee would begin investigating facts presented by federal prosecutors that strongly point to Mr. Trump’s involvement in hush-money payments just before the 2016 election to two women who claim to have had affairs with him, a violation of campaign finance law. They will also look at what Democrats view as “improper” communications between the president and federal law enforcement. After seething over Republican use of the House Intelligence Committee to turn an investigation of Russian interference in the 2016 election into an attempt to discredit the president’s investigators, Democrats plan to quickly flip the lens back on to Mr. Trump and his campaign itself. But the panel’s leaders have cautioned that their approach will be narrower than once predicted. “We are conscious of the fact that the Senate continues to do their work, Mueller continues to do his work, and at this point in the game, I would not expect the committee to announce an omnibus investigation,” Mr. Himes said. “The time has passed for that.” Instead, Democrats will initially pursue at least two questions — one discreet, the other potentially very complicated — that Republicans in control of the committee would not touch. The panel’s new chairman, Representative Adam B. Schiff of California, said it was initiating a request for phone records of the president’s eldest son, Donald Trump Jr., to clarify whom he called while arranging a June 2016 meeting at Trump Tower in Manhattan between members of the Trump campaign and a Russian lawyer. Phone records already in the hands of congressional investigators show a call was placed to a blocked number, and Donald Trump Jr. told investigators that he did not remember who he had called. Democrats believe the blocked number may have belonged to his father, and could prove that the president had prior knowledge of the Russian offer to share dirt on his opponent, Hillary Clinton. The committee would also like to request financial records related to Mr. Trump’s dealings with Russia and other foreign powers. Intelligence Committee Democrats appear to be circling around two well-known but still mysterious transactions: Mr. Trump’s sale of a Palm Beach, Fla., mansion to a Russian oligarch in 2008 and loans to the Trump Organization from Deutsche Bank. In the real estate case, Mr. Trump bought a Palm Beach estate for $41 million in 2004 and, only four years later, amid a national housing crisis, sold it to the Russian billionaire, Dmitry Rybolovlev, for $95 million. Democrats say the deal stinks of potential money laundering. Loans from Deutsche Bank — hundreds of millions of dollars extended by a bank later accused in an unrelated case of laundering Russian money during a time when few other major banks would lend to Mr. Trump’s businesses — also raise concerns that Russia could have financial leverage over the president. Democrats on the House Financial Services Committee, under Representative Maxine Waters of California, have also been asking questions about the Deutsche loans since early 2017, and plan to press their investigation ahead with the full powers of the majority. Democrats are prepared to subpoena the records if necessary. Mr. Schiff said staff had already begun informal conversations with institutions, potential witnesses and their lawyers about records requests, but because the panel has not technically been appointed yet, formal requests must wait — most likely until the end of January. Mr. Schiff declined to name specific witnesses except Michael D. Cohen, Mr. Trump’s former personal lawyer who has pleaded guilty to lying to Congress about the Trump Organization’s dealings with Russia and to buying the silence of two women who say they had affairs with Mr. Trump. Democrats tried more than a dozen times over the past two years to obtain Mr. Trump’s tax returns. But now that they finally have the opportunity to do so — thanks to an obscure 1920s tax code provision — the relevant Democratic committee chairman appears to be in no rush. In an effort to parry Republican accusations of overreach, the House Ways and Means chairman, Representative Richard E. Neal of Massachusetts, has decided instead to try to first build a public case for why the returns ought to become public before he lodges a formal request. He plans to convene a hearing this month focused on presidential tax returns in conjunction with sweeping anticorruption legislation that includes language requiring all presidents and candidates to make their returns public. Ultimately, Mr. Neal and Democrats do not need new laws. Sometime after the hearings — probably in February — Mr. Neal plans to invoke Section 6103 in the tax code, which allows chairmen of the House and Senate tax writing committees to request from the Treasury Department tax returns or related information on any tax filer. In theory, committee investigators could then privately study the returns for any compromising or illegal financial dealings. The committee would have to vote to make any of the information public. Whether the administration will put up a fight remains unclear. Mr. Trump has said publicly that he does not care if Democrats pursue the documents; Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, has said he will defer to legal counsel. There is, however, scant precedent for this particular case: Mr. Trump is the first president or major presidential candidate in decades to refuse to release his returns. Representative Elijah E. Cummings of Maryland, the chairman of the Oversight and Reform Committee, had a stern and straightforward message when he sent off 51 oversight letters to cabinet secretaries and Trump Organization lawyers shortly before Christmas: Consider this “a basic first step” and not a voluntary one. As he stands up the House’s marquee investigative committee, Mr. Cummings has deliberately chosen to begin with targets that Republicans once agreed should be studied, but failed to follow up on. They include records related to the administration’s response to Hurricanes Irma and Maria, which devastated American territories in the Caribbean; Ivanka Trump’s use of a private email account for government business; the use of government jets for personal travel; misconduct by the former Environmental Protection Agency administrator, Scott Pruitt; and the Flint, Mich., water crisis. Laying the groundwork to look for potential violations of the Constitution’s emoluments clause, which bans payments from foreign governments to federal officeholders, he wrote to the Trump Organization requesting documents related to the company’s procedures for identifying foreign payments.  In each, Mr. Cummings said he expected the documents by Friday.  Subpoenas could follow if they are not produced. But much of the committee’s investigative work is likely to remain private in the coming weeks.  Other targets appear to be imminent. Representative Carolyn B. Maloney, Democrat of New York, said she and Mr. Cummings agreed they would study what she called the Trump administration’s attempts to manipulate the 2020 census for political gain. “Our whole democracy is based on representation,” Ms. Maloney said, “and if there is a conscious effort to undercount representation, that is an attack fundamentally on our democracy.”  Nicholas Fandos is a reporter in the Washington bureau covering Congress.  @npfandos Supported by ‘It takes a lot of spine to be a centrist in America today.’ By Frank Bruni Opinion Columnist PROVIDENCE, R.I. — I did it. I found a significantly accomplished, defensibly qualified Democratic officeholder who isn’t flirting with — and hasn’t fantasized about — a presidential run in 2020. I had to take the train to Rhode Island, where we talked over pizza and eggplant parmigiana. We drank wine, too. It helps these days. Her name is Gina Raimondo. She’s the governor of this state. She just began her second term after being re-elected by a margin of more than 15 percentage points, and you would think that this commanding victory plus her youth (she’s 47), her working-class background, her educational pedigree (Harvard, Rhodes scholar, Yale Law), her role as the chairwoman of the Democratic Governors Association and her situation far from the nation’s swampy and unpopular capital would start chatter about a move there. But no. Crickets. The most obvious reason? Her relationship to the Democratic Party of the moment. Both stylistically and substantively, she’s out of sync with it. [Go beyond the headlines and behind the curtain with Frank Bruni’s candid reflections on politics, culture, higher education and more every week. Sign up for his newsletter.] She can’t tweet worth a damn and the same goes for Instagram. She winces at talk of a top marginal tax rate of 70 percent and cringes at the growing use of “corporatist” as a slur against Democratic politicians deemed too cozy with business interests. She thinks that big companies often need to be prodded forcefully to do right by their employees, but that it’s bad policy and bad politics to paint them as the enemy. She recalled an exchange with college students not long ago. One of them said: “I get who you are. You’re one of those spineless centrists.”  “And I was like, ‘Excuse me?’,” she said. “It takes a lot of spine to be a centrist in America today. You get whacked from the left and whacked from the right. That’s my life. I get whacked.” Moderate Democrats have certainly had their day and their sway. In fact the passions of the left arise in part from how much compromise there has been — and here we are stuck with Donald Trump. The rage of less moderate Democrats like Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez is earned and righteous. And Raimondo said precisely that to me. But Ocasio-Cortez is by no means the whole of the Democratic Party. And is the leftward lurch that she personifies the best and safest bet for 2020? I worry, because there’s no political priority higher than limiting Trump to one term. Raimondo also worries — a lot. “So many Democrats just assume we’re going to win,” she said. “They underestimate how hard it’s going to be.” And it might be a serious tactical mistake, she added, to nominate any candidate who seems to be at war with capitalism itself or entertains the idea of a guaranteed minimum income. “We have become the party that is anti-business,” she told me. “We need to be the party of work.” She acknowledged that “the system we have today is totally broken.” She cited grotesque income inequality. She noted that too many Americans have no economic security and no prospects for achieving it. “But I fall in the camp of: Let’s fix it,” she said. “Let’s embrace business to come to the table. Someone needs to make the case that it’s in the best interest of businesses and wealthy people to be better corporate citizens. Pay for health care. Help people get their college degree. Pay for job training.” Along those lines, she recently proposed that companies doing business in Rhode Island be taxed up to $1,500 annually for every employee who is enrolled in Medicaid because he or she can’t get health insurance through a company-sponsored plan. “I hope that they’re embarrassed,” she said. But, she added, “Where I think we are at risk is if all we do is beat up and crap on businesses.” That’s an exaggeration of where the party is, but I take her point. And I’m fascinated by her unflashy example and the questions it raises about how we currently accord importance to politicians and how much that really relates to their impact. Journalists obsess over the most camera-ready emissaries and provocative assertions, and we often outsource our judgment to social media. To go viral is to be relevant. “In the future,” the Politico media columnist Jack Shafer wrote a few days ago, “your news source of choice will contain only stories about Donald Trump and Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez.” Shafer forgot Beto O’Rourke, which is funny, because he once wrote an excellent broadside about how political reporters can’t forget him. When I checked social media during Raimondo’s re-election campaign, I mostly saw people bashing her, and she wasn’t bothering to engage with that hate. I assumed she was in trouble. But she won her primary against a progressive rival by more than 20 points, then trounced her Republican opponent in the general election, 52.8 percent to 37.3 percent. (Third-party candidates received the remainder of the vote.) She had ample support in the end. It just didn’t show up on Twitter, where an overwhelming majority of Americans still spend no time at all. And that support undoubtedly reflects the concrete difference that Raimondo has made over the past four years. With aggressive tax incentives, she persuaded some two dozen companies to expand or establish operations in Rhode Island, creating what The Times’s Katharine Seelye described as a “frenzy of economic and job development.” For most of the year before she took office, the state’s unemployment rate was well above the nation’s; at the end of last month, it was the same — 3.9 percent. Thanks to her advocacy, Rhode Island is among a minority of states in which community college is free. And thanks to a tax that she levied on large commercial trucks, its awful infrastructure is receiving desperately needed repairs and upgrades. K-through-12 public education, however, remains a mess. And Raimondo has stains on her record, including the botched rollout of a $650 million public-assistance computer system that wasn’t ready, wreaking epic havoc. To get re-elected, she raised — and spent — significantly more money than her opponents. And many Democrats fairly question whether her corporate giveaways had to be as generous as they were. But some of them obviously backed her anyway. “At the end of the day,” Raimondo said, “people want a decent job, and I think they thought that I was the candidate who was going to bring that to them and their families.” And that’s a political reality — and a glimpse into the electorate — that shouldn’t be forgotten as Democrats plot their course. The media attention to full-throttle progressives among newly elected House Democrats is disproportionate to their numbers, and it sometimes obscures a sizable, practical middle. Besides, their more moderate peers are the ones who wrested seats from Republicans in districts that, like America, aren’t deep red or emphatically blue. “I don’t think the lefties can win a general election,” Raimondo said. But, she conceded, “Who knows? I’m not running in 2020.  I could have missed the boat.” I invite you to sign up for my free weekly email newsletter. You can follow me on Twitter (@FrankBruni).  Frank Bruni has been with The Times since 1995 and held a variety of jobs — including White House reporter, Rome bureau chief and chief restaurant critic — before becoming a columnist in 2011. He is the author of three best-selling books.   @FrankBruni • Facebook 

Supported by ‘It takes a lot of spine to be a centrist in America today.’ By Frank Bruni Opinion Columnist PROVIDENCE, R.I. — I did it. I found a significantly accomplished, defensibly qualified Democratic officeholder who isn’t flirting with — and hasn’t fantasized about — a presidential run in 2020. I had to take the train to Rhode Island, where we talked over pizza and eggplant parmigiana. We drank wine, too. It helps these days. Her name is Gina Raimondo. She’s the governor of this state. She just began her second term after being re-elected by a margin of more than 15 percentage points, and you would think that this commanding victory plus her youth (she’s 47), her working-class background, her educational pedigree (Harvard, Rhodes scholar, Yale Law), her role as the chairwoman of the Democratic Governors Association and her situation far from the nation’s swampy and unpopular capital would start chatter about a move there. But no. Crickets. The most obvious reason? Her relationship to the Democratic Party of the moment. Both stylistically and substantively, she’s out of sync with it. [Go beyond the headlines and behind the curtain with Frank Bruni’s candid reflections on politics, culture, higher education and more every week. Sign up for his newsletter.] She can’t tweet worth a damn and the same goes for Instagram. She winces at talk of a top marginal tax rate of 70 percent and cringes at the growing use of “corporatist” as a slur against Democratic politicians deemed too cozy with business interests. She thinks that big companies often need to be prodded forcefully to do right by their employees, but that it’s bad policy and bad politics to paint them as the enemy. She recalled an exchange with college students not long ago. One of them said: “I get who you are. You’re one of those spineless centrists.”  “And I was like, ‘Excuse me?’,” she said. “It takes a lot of spine to be a centrist in America today. You get whacked from the left and whacked from the right. That’s my life. I get whacked.” Moderate Democrats have certainly had their day and their sway. In fact the passions of the left arise in part from how much compromise there has been — and here we are stuck with Donald Trump. The rage of less moderate Democrats like Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez is earned and righteous. And Raimondo said precisely that to me. But Ocasio-Cortez is by no means the whole of the Democratic Party. And is the leftward lurch that she personifies the best and safest bet for 2020? I worry, because there’s no political priority higher than limiting Trump to one term. Raimondo also worries — a lot. “So many Democrats just assume we’re going to win,” she said. “They underestimate how hard it’s going to be.” And it might be a serious tactical mistake, she added, to nominate any candidate who seems to be at war with capitalism itself or entertains the idea of a guaranteed minimum income. “We have become the party that is anti-business,” she told me. “We need to be the party of work.” She acknowledged that “the system we have today is totally broken.” She cited grotesque income inequality. She noted that too many Americans have no economic security and no prospects for achieving it. “But I fall in the camp of: Let’s fix it,” she said. “Let’s embrace business to come to the table. Someone needs to make the case that it’s in the best interest of businesses and wealthy people to be better corporate citizens. Pay for health care. Help people get their college degree. Pay for job training.” Along those lines, she recently proposed that companies doing business in Rhode Island be taxed up to $1,500 annually for every employee who is enrolled in Medicaid because he or she can’t get health insurance through a company-sponsored plan. “I hope that they’re embarrassed,” she said. But, she added, “Where I think we are at risk is if all we do is beat up and crap on businesses.” That’s an exaggeration of where the party is, but I take her point. And I’m fascinated by her unflashy example and the questions it raises about how we currently accord importance to politicians and how much that really relates to their impact. Journalists obsess over the most camera-ready emissaries and provocative assertions, and we often outsource our judgment to social media. To go viral is to be relevant. “In the future,” the Politico media columnist Jack Shafer wrote a few days ago, “your news source of choice will contain only stories about Donald Trump and Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez.” Shafer forgot Beto O’Rourke, which is funny, because he once wrote an excellent broadside about how political reporters can’t forget him. When I checked social media during Raimondo’s re-election campaign, I mostly saw people bashing her, and she wasn’t bothering to engage with that hate. I assumed she was in trouble. But she won her primary against a progressive rival by more than 20 points, then trounced her Republican opponent in the general election, 52.8 percent to 37.3 percent. (Third-party candidates received the remainder of the vote.) She had ample support in the end. It just didn’t show up on Twitter, where an overwhelming majority of Americans still spend no time at all. And that support undoubtedly reflects the concrete difference that Raimondo has made over the past four years. With aggressive tax incentives, she persuaded some two dozen companies to expand or establish operations in Rhode Island, creating what The Times’s Katharine Seelye described as a “frenzy of economic and job development.” For most of the year before she took office, the state’s unemployment rate was well above the nation’s; at the end of last month, it was the same — 3.9 percent. Thanks to her advocacy, Rhode Island is among a minority of states in which community college is free. And thanks to a tax that she levied on large commercial trucks, its awful infrastructure is receiving desperately needed repairs and upgrades. K-through-12 public education, however, remains a mess. And Raimondo has stains on her record, including the botched rollout of a $650 million public-assistance computer system that wasn’t ready, wreaking epic havoc. To get re-elected, she raised — and spent — significantly more money than her opponents. And many Democrats fairly question whether her corporate giveaways had to be as generous as they were. But some of them obviously backed her anyway. “At the end of the day,” Raimondo said, “people want a decent job, and I think they thought that I was the candidate who was going to bring that to them and their families.” And that’s a political reality — and a glimpse into the electorate — that shouldn’t be forgotten as Democrats plot their course. The media attention to full-throttle progressives among newly elected House Democrats is disproportionate to their numbers, and it sometimes obscures a sizable, practical middle. Besides, their more moderate peers are the ones who wrested seats from Republicans in districts that, like America, aren’t deep red or emphatically blue. “I don’t think the lefties can win a general election,” Raimondo said. But, she conceded, “Who knows? I’m not running in 2020.  I could have missed the boat.” I invite you to sign up for my free weekly email newsletter. You can follow me on Twitter (@FrankBruni).  Frank Bruni has been with The Times since 1995 and held a variety of jobs — including White House reporter, Rome bureau chief and chief restaurant critic — before becoming a columnist in 2011. He is the author of three best-selling books.   @FrankBruni • Facebook Supported by To triumph in 2020, care less about pleasing all of the people all of the time. By Frank Bruni Opinion Columnist Kirsten Gillibrand confronted a piece of fried chicken in South Carolina over the weekend. She began to eat it with a fork, realized that others around her were using their hands, asked if she should do likewise and ditched the utensils. Reading the reports of this, you got the sense that she would have grabbed that chicken with her pinkie toes if she’d been told to; she would have sucked it through a very large straw if those were the cues. Anything to conform. Anything to please. Cory Booker, in Iowa, fielded a question by a reporter representing a foreign news organization. “Puedes hablar español?” he responded, misidentifying the reporter’s accent, according to a video distributed by David Gelles, a CNN producer. The reporter corrected Booker: “No, Swiss radio.” “Swiss!” Booker exulted. “I do not speak Swiss. I cannot even say Swiss cheese in Swiss.” Vegan humor? Booker is a vegan. He’s also pathetically eager to connect.  Memo to Democratic presidential candidates: Stop it. Just stop it. Lose the sycophancy. Reclaim your dignity. Eat chicken however you naturally would. Don’t invent languages — there’s no such tongue as Swiss — just to win points. It’s good to be relatable, and a little humor, if unforced, goes a long way. But there’s a line between courting and groveling, between reaching out and rolling over. And in this early stage of the 2020 campaign, Gillibrand, Booker and too many other contenders for their party’s presidential nomination may be losing sight of it. Have they learned nothing from Donald Trump? I’m not suggesting that he’s some shining model and sagacious tutor, but he did go farther in politics than he had any right to, and a few of the reasons are worth considering and maybe even emulating, if only out of pragmatism. One of those is the impression he gave — or maybe I should say the illusion he wove — of not caring too much about what people thought. If they were shocked, so be it. If they were offended, boohoo. He was his own gilded man, going his own grotesque way. And a consequential percentage of voters respected that. They recast his obnoxiousness as authenticity, interpreted his infantilism as independence and gave him their support because he didn’t seem to be prostrating himself for it (though, in many senses, he was). [Get a more personal, less conventional take on political developments, newsmakers, cultural milestones and more with Frank Bruni’s exclusive commentary every week. Sign up for his newsletter.] Elizabeth Warren should take note. Actually, she should have taken note before that cringe-worthy Instagram Live video in which she decides — on the spur of the moment! — to grab a beer from her refrigerator and coos appreciatively when her husband pops by, as if his appearance in the kitchen of the home they share is some splendid surprise. She wants to show how cuddly and unpretentious she can be. But it comes across as a performance. So it communicates tentativeness rather than certainty, weakness instead of strength. The rapidly growing field of Democratic candidates — Amy Klobuchar joined the gang on Sunday — is packed with impressive talent. But right now it’s also lousy with obsequiousness. As I and many other journalists have observed previously, the contenders are engaged in a frenzy of contrition for mistakes and insufficiently progressive positions past, and while there’s laudable humility (along with plentiful calculation) in that, it sometimes has a desperate ring. Social-media posts that are meant to convey accessibility, transparency and unvarnished charm can come across as stagy and needy. And there’s a rush to promise Democratic primary voters anything and everything they want. No candidate has had a more successful rollout than that of Kamala Harris, who was terrific in a widely watched CNN town hall. But she got tangled in her statements and then clarifications about her position on Medicare for all. Yes, she was O.K. with the abolition of private insurance. No, wait, she saw no reason that it had to go away. She chose Door No. 1 and Door No. 2. Which isn’t necessarily evasive: A politician can be amenable to several fixes and solutions, some grander than others. But still she seemed intent on not losing the love of even one voter. Most of the Democratic candidates, including her, have rallied behind the Green New Deal, a profoundly progressive resolution with a set of environmental and economic goals so sweeping and idealistic as to be politically fantastical. It’s an admirable way of recognizing the direness of climate change and of reaching so high that coming up short would still be meaningful improvement. But many of these candidates’ quickness to embrace it without qualification has as much to do with indulgence as with leadership. In the context of Trump and the unprincipled Republicans who have enabled him, Democrats’ willingness to search their souls, admit error and think expansively and inclusively is beyond refreshing. But too much self-flagellation and genuflection can look foolish and smack of fakery. Watch the measure of saccharine; add several teaspoons of salt. Consider Nancy Pelosi. She’s having a moment in part because she’s speaking bluntly and not afraid to ruffle feathers. (“The green dream, or whatever they call it,” she said when asked about the resolution.) She helped lead the party to triumph last year. She can point the way to an even more important triumph in 2020. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. I invite you to sign up for my free weekly email newsletter. You can follow me on Twitter (@FrankBruni).  Frank Bruni has been with The Times since 1995 and held a variety of jobs — including White House reporter, Rome bureau chief and chief restaurant critic — before becoming a columnist in 2011. He is the author of three best-selling books.   @FrankBruni • Facebook 

Supported by To triumph in 2020, care less about pleasing all of the people all of the time. By Frank Bruni Opinion Columnist Kirsten Gillibrand confronted a piece of fried chicken in South Carolina over the weekend. She began to eat it with a fork, realized that others around her were using their hands, asked if she should do likewise and ditched the utensils. Reading the reports of this, you got the sense that she would have grabbed that chicken with her pinkie toes if she’d been told to; she would have sucked it through a very large straw if those were the cues. Anything to conform. Anything to please. Cory Booker, in Iowa, fielded a question by a reporter representing a foreign news organization. “Puedes hablar español?” he responded, misidentifying the reporter’s accent, according to a video distributed by David Gelles, a CNN producer. The reporter corrected Booker: “No, Swiss radio.” “Swiss!” Booker exulted. “I do not speak Swiss. I cannot even say Swiss cheese in Swiss.” Vegan humor? Booker is a vegan. He’s also pathetically eager to connect.  Memo to Democratic presidential candidates: Stop it. Just stop it. Lose the sycophancy. Reclaim your dignity. Eat chicken however you naturally would. Don’t invent languages — there’s no such tongue as Swiss — just to win points. It’s good to be relatable, and a little humor, if unforced, goes a long way. But there’s a line between courting and groveling, between reaching out and rolling over. And in this early stage of the 2020 campaign, Gillibrand, Booker and too many other contenders for their party’s presidential nomination may be losing sight of it. Have they learned nothing from Donald Trump? I’m not suggesting that he’s some shining model and sagacious tutor, but he did go farther in politics than he had any right to, and a few of the reasons are worth considering and maybe even emulating, if only out of pragmatism. One of those is the impression he gave — or maybe I should say the illusion he wove — of not caring too much about what people thought. If they were shocked, so be it. If they were offended, boohoo. He was his own gilded man, going his own grotesque way. And a consequential percentage of voters respected that. They recast his obnoxiousness as authenticity, interpreted his infantilism as independence and gave him their support because he didn’t seem to be prostrating himself for it (though, in many senses, he was). [Get a more personal, less conventional take on political developments, newsmakers, cultural milestones and more with Frank Bruni’s exclusive commentary every week. Sign up for his newsletter.] Elizabeth Warren should take note. Actually, she should have taken note before that cringe-worthy Instagram Live video in which she decides — on the spur of the moment! — to grab a beer from her refrigerator and coos appreciatively when her husband pops by, as if his appearance in the kitchen of the home they share is some splendid surprise. She wants to show how cuddly and unpretentious she can be. But it comes across as a performance. So it communicates tentativeness rather than certainty, weakness instead of strength. The rapidly growing field of Democratic candidates — Amy Klobuchar joined the gang on Sunday — is packed with impressive talent. But right now it’s also lousy with obsequiousness. As I and many other journalists have observed previously, the contenders are engaged in a frenzy of contrition for mistakes and insufficiently progressive positions past, and while there’s laudable humility (along with plentiful calculation) in that, it sometimes has a desperate ring. Social-media posts that are meant to convey accessibility, transparency and unvarnished charm can come across as stagy and needy. And there’s a rush to promise Democratic primary voters anything and everything they want. No candidate has had a more successful rollout than that of Kamala Harris, who was terrific in a widely watched CNN town hall. But she got tangled in her statements and then clarifications about her position on Medicare for all. Yes, she was O.K. with the abolition of private insurance. No, wait, she saw no reason that it had to go away. She chose Door No. 1 and Door No. 2. Which isn’t necessarily evasive: A politician can be amenable to several fixes and solutions, some grander than others. But still she seemed intent on not losing the love of even one voter. Most of the Democratic candidates, including her, have rallied behind the Green New Deal, a profoundly progressive resolution with a set of environmental and economic goals so sweeping and idealistic as to be politically fantastical. It’s an admirable way of recognizing the direness of climate change and of reaching so high that coming up short would still be meaningful improvement. But many of these candidates’ quickness to embrace it without qualification has as much to do with indulgence as with leadership. In the context of Trump and the unprincipled Republicans who have enabled him, Democrats’ willingness to search their souls, admit error and think expansively and inclusively is beyond refreshing. But too much self-flagellation and genuflection can look foolish and smack of fakery. Watch the measure of saccharine; add several teaspoons of salt. Consider Nancy Pelosi. She’s having a moment in part because she’s speaking bluntly and not afraid to ruffle feathers. (“The green dream, or whatever they call it,” she said when asked about the resolution.) She helped lead the party to triumph last year. She can point the way to an even more important triumph in 2020. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. I invite you to sign up for my free weekly email newsletter. You can follow me on Twitter (@FrankBruni).  Frank Bruni has been with The Times since 1995 and held a variety of jobs — including White House reporter, Rome bureau chief and chief restaurant critic — before becoming a columnist in 2011. He is the author of three best-selling books.   @FrankBruni • Facebook Supported by By Emily Cochrane WASHINGTON — House Democrats formally punted on releasing a budget blueprint on Tuesday, instead unveiling a bill that would increase military and domestic spending caps by more than $350 billion over the next two years. The proposal frustrated fiscal hawks on both sides of the aisle and Democrats on the party’s left flank who balked at the prospect of increasing military spending. It also meant that House Democrats, without a blueprint to counter the one the Trump administration released last month, had effectively opted out of outlining their own budget priorities in the face of a divided government and division within their caucus. Several Democratic lawmakers and aides argued that with a Republican-controlled Senate and White House, it would be futile to release a budget resolution, a nonbinding document that usually serves as a statement of priorities as opposed to actual policy. There is little chance that the budget proposals put forward by the Trump administration and the Senate Budget Committee could prevail in the House. “By moving this bill forward, we will bring responsible governing back to the budget process, avoid uncertainty and the unrelenting threats of a government shutdown, and meet our obligations to the American people,” said Representative John Yarmuth of Kentucky, the chairman of the House Budget Committee and a chief sponsor of the bill. But the decision highlighted the friction within the Democratic Party over how to approach spending and what to prioritize in a budget document — and contradicted the new majority’s promise for regular order. “House Democrats are in disarray,” Representative Steve Womack, Republican of Arkansas and the ranking member on the House Budget Committee, said in a statement. “Their agenda is so full of contradictions that they’re unable to govern.” Republicans, with a majority in both the House and the Senate, failed to pass their own budget resolution last year, which Democrats denounced at the time. Even before the Democrats’ endeavor was released, Republicans had criticized it as hypocritical, with Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the minority leader, echoing a mantra often used by Speaker Nancy Pelosi: “Show me your budget, show me your values.” “They have no budget,” Mr. McCarthy said last week at a news conference. “Does that mean they have no values?” But Mr. Yarmuth and other Democratic lawmakers said the legislation introduced on Tuesday would shift the focus to a more pressing issue: the spending caps enacted in 2011 under the Budget Control Act, which would automatically cut military and domestic spending by billions of dollars without action from Congress. While Congress has made bipartisan deals to raise the caps for the current fiscal year, a failure to do so for the 2020 and 2021 fiscal years would cut programs by $125 billion. “I think the caps bill is exactly what’s needed,” said Joel Friedman, the vice president for federal fiscal policy at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. “The Yarmuth solution is a better use of everyone’s time and energy because of the political landscape we’re facing.” Lawmakers have generally waived the restrictions, first struck as part of a deal between congressional Republicans and President Barack Obama, in order to accommodate spending increases. Removing the caps would also jump-start the process of funding the government in 2020, which Democratic leadership has said it wants to do well before the Sept. 30 deadline. “The budget resolution doesn’t change the Budget Control Act numbers,” said Mr. Yarmuth, who has spent the past few weeks meeting with members and discussing what a budget resolution would look like. “The vast majority of the caucus thinks that’s the No. 1 priority.” Fiscal hawks on Capitol Hill called for the release of a full budget, bemoaning the partisan decline of what they said was a fundamental responsibility for both parties. The Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget estimated that the deal, which would also allow for funding increases to carry out the 2020 census and support tax enforcement at the Internal Revenue Service, would increase spending by roughly $2 trillion over the next decade. “The way we’ve been running our government is irresponsible,” said Representative Stephanie Murphy, Democrat of Florida and a chairwoman of the Blue Dog Coalition, a fiscally conservative group of Democrats. “It may take some political courage and some responsible governing, but we have to get back to a time when we set our priorities in a budget.” “We should be able to pass a bipartisan budget, and there was a time when we were able to do that,” she added in an interview. Democrats on the party’s left flank said Mr. Yarmuth’s proposal allocated too much money to military spending — money they argued should be directed toward domestic programs. “You cannot be opposed to Trump’s foreign policy of militarism and then vote for the budgets that carry it out,” Representative Ro Khanna, Democrat of California and a vice chairman of the Progressive Caucus, said in an interview. “The defense increases are totally unjustified.” In a statement released late Tuesday, Mr. Khanna, a member of the Budget Committee, said he would encourage those “who are committed to a progressive agenda to join me in opposing defense funding for endless wars.” It is unclear how Mr. Yarmuth’s legislation will fare before a committee meeting on Wednesday afternoon. Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the majority leader, said he thought that Mick Mulvaney, the acting White House chief of staff, would try to delay a deal on the spending caps until the end of the year to have more leverage in negotiations. “It shouldn’t be difficult,” Mr. Hoyer told reporters. But, he added, “I think that’s what the administration has concluded, that they’ll have more leverage at the end of the year.” Glenn Thrush contributed reporting.   

Supported by By Emily Cochrane WASHINGTON — House Democrats formally punted on releasing a budget blueprint on Tuesday, instead unveiling a bill that would increase military and domestic spending caps by more than $350 billion over the next two years. The proposal frustrated fiscal hawks on both sides of the aisle and Democrats on the party’s left flank who balked at the prospect of increasing military spending. It also meant that House Democrats, without a blueprint to counter the one the Trump administration released last month, had effectively opted out of outlining their own budget priorities in the face of a divided government and division within their caucus. Several Democratic lawmakers and aides argued that with a Republican-controlled Senate and White House, it would be futile to release a budget resolution, a nonbinding document that usually serves as a statement of priorities as opposed to actual policy. There is little chance that the budget proposals put forward by the Trump administration and the Senate Budget Committee could prevail in the House. “By moving this bill forward, we will bring responsible governing back to the budget process, avoid uncertainty and the unrelenting threats of a government shutdown, and meet our obligations to the American people,” said Representative John Yarmuth of Kentucky, the chairman of the House Budget Committee and a chief sponsor of the bill. But the decision highlighted the friction within the Democratic Party over how to approach spending and what to prioritize in a budget document — and contradicted the new majority’s promise for regular order. “House Democrats are in disarray,” Representative Steve Womack, Republican of Arkansas and the ranking member on the House Budget Committee, said in a statement. “Their agenda is so full of contradictions that they’re unable to govern.” Republicans, with a majority in both the House and the Senate, failed to pass their own budget resolution last year, which Democrats denounced at the time. Even before the Democrats’ endeavor was released, Republicans had criticized it as hypocritical, with Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the minority leader, echoing a mantra often used by Speaker Nancy Pelosi: “Show me your budget, show me your values.” “They have no budget,” Mr. McCarthy said last week at a news conference. “Does that mean they have no values?” But Mr. Yarmuth and other Democratic lawmakers said the legislation introduced on Tuesday would shift the focus to a more pressing issue: the spending caps enacted in 2011 under the Budget Control Act, which would automatically cut military and domestic spending by billions of dollars without action from Congress. While Congress has made bipartisan deals to raise the caps for the current fiscal year, a failure to do so for the 2020 and 2021 fiscal years would cut programs by $125 billion. “I think the caps bill is exactly what’s needed,” said Joel Friedman, the vice president for federal fiscal policy at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. “The Yarmuth solution is a better use of everyone’s time and energy because of the political landscape we’re facing.” Lawmakers have generally waived the restrictions, first struck as part of a deal between congressional Republicans and President Barack Obama, in order to accommodate spending increases. Removing the caps would also jump-start the process of funding the government in 2020, which Democratic leadership has said it wants to do well before the Sept. 30 deadline. “The budget resolution doesn’t change the Budget Control Act numbers,” said Mr. Yarmuth, who has spent the past few weeks meeting with members and discussing what a budget resolution would look like. “The vast majority of the caucus thinks that’s the No. 1 priority.” Fiscal hawks on Capitol Hill called for the release of a full budget, bemoaning the partisan decline of what they said was a fundamental responsibility for both parties. The Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget estimated that the deal, which would also allow for funding increases to carry out the 2020 census and support tax enforcement at the Internal Revenue Service, would increase spending by roughly $2 trillion over the next decade. “The way we’ve been running our government is irresponsible,” said Representative Stephanie Murphy, Democrat of Florida and a chairwoman of the Blue Dog Coalition, a fiscally conservative group of Democrats. “It may take some political courage and some responsible governing, but we have to get back to a time when we set our priorities in a budget.” “We should be able to pass a bipartisan budget, and there was a time when we were able to do that,” she added in an interview. Democrats on the party’s left flank said Mr. Yarmuth’s proposal allocated too much money to military spending — money they argued should be directed toward domestic programs. “You cannot be opposed to Trump’s foreign policy of militarism and then vote for the budgets that carry it out,” Representative Ro Khanna, Democrat of California and a vice chairman of the Progressive Caucus, said in an interview. “The defense increases are totally unjustified.” In a statement released late Tuesday, Mr. Khanna, a member of the Budget Committee, said he would encourage those “who are committed to a progressive agenda to join me in opposing defense funding for endless wars.” It is unclear how Mr. Yarmuth’s legislation will fare before a committee meeting on Wednesday afternoon. Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the majority leader, said he thought that Mick Mulvaney, the acting White House chief of staff, would try to delay a deal on the spending caps until the end of the year to have more leverage in negotiations. “It shouldn’t be difficult,” Mr. Hoyer told reporters. But, he added, “I think that’s what the administration has concluded, that they’ll have more leverage at the end of the year.” Glenn Thrush contributed reporting.   Supported by By Reuters LEESBURG, Va. — U.S. House of Representatives Democrats are accusing Republican President Donald Trump of aggravating a crisis situation at the southern U.S. border, saying he has not used funds available to help deal with a surge of migrants and exacerbated the problem with his attempts to crack down. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said Thursday that bipartisan immigration reform, which has eluded Congress and the White House for years, is still the solution. It is in fact "inevitable," Pelosi said on the sidelines of a Democratic party meeting in Leesburg, Virginia.  In Washington, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, a Republican, also called for bipartisan discussions on immigration. But he focused on toughening U.S. asylum law, a move that Democrats likely would oppose. Democrats have not proposed a comprehensive immigration bill since taking the majority in the House this year. Republicans still hold the Senate. Instead, Democrats last month proposed legislation offering a pathway to citizenship for more than 2 million undocumented immigrants who were brought illegally to the United States as children. Known as Dreamers, they face possible deportation. The House Democratic bill would also help immigrants from countries hit by civil conflicts or natural disasters who have temporary protected status, known as TPS. U.S. officers arrested or denied entry to over 103,000 people along the border with Mexico in March, a 35 percent increase over the prior month and more than twice as many as the same period last year, according to data released by U.S. Customs and Border Protection this week. The steady increase in migrant arrivals, which has been building over the past several months, is driven by a growing number of children and families, especially from Central America.  Trump has threatened to close the border, saying the United States is "full." He has urged the building of a wall on the southern border since before he became president in 2016. Recently his ire has been directed at his own officials, Congress, and Latin American countries, who he says have not done enough to stop their citizens from traveling to the United States. Pelosi, asked Thursday what should be done at the border, said the bipartisan legislation Trump signed to end a government shutdown in February included money for judges and humanitarian aid "to bring order to the border," but Trump has not used the funds. Although a bipartisan effort at comprehensive immigration reform by Democrats and Trump last year failed, Pelosi said such an overhaul still had a chance. "I'm not giving up on the president on this," Pelosi said. "I still say to him, 'We've got to have comprehensive immigration reform'."  Representative Pramila Jayapal, speaking to reporters later, said the Trump administration had manufactured a crisis at the border in part by "stripping away" legal routes to immigration, such as by stopping asylum seekers at legal ports of entry. Trying to curb the flow of Central American asylum seekers, the administration has been sending more people back to Mexico to wait for their asylum claims to be heard by U.S. courts.  Representative David Cicilline said the Trump administration had exacerbated a challenging border situation by not spending money that was appropriated for border facilities and personnel, as well as by cutting off aid to Central American countries for sending migrants to the United States. Cicilline, who runs the House Democrats' policy and communications committee, denied Democrats were simply "looking on helplessly" at the problems. "But the administration has responsibility in all these areas. And we can appropriate funding and we can pass legislation but ultimately they are responsible for executing the immigration laws in this country," he said.  (Reporting by Susan Cornwell; Editing by James Dalgleish)

Supported by By Reuters LEESBURG, Va. — U.S. House of Representatives Democrats are accusing Republican President Donald Trump of aggravating a crisis situation at the southern U.S. border, saying he has not used funds available to help deal with a surge of migrants and exacerbated the problem with his attempts to crack down. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said Thursday that bipartisan immigration reform, which has eluded Congress and the White House for years, is still the solution. It is in fact "inevitable," Pelosi said on the sidelines of a Democratic party meeting in Leesburg, Virginia.  In Washington, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, a Republican, also called for bipartisan discussions on immigration. But he focused on toughening U.S. asylum law, a move that Democrats likely would oppose. Democrats have not proposed a comprehensive immigration bill since taking the majority in the House this year. Republicans still hold the Senate. Instead, Democrats last month proposed legislation offering a pathway to citizenship for more than 2 million undocumented immigrants who were brought illegally to the United States as children. Known as Dreamers, they face possible deportation. The House Democratic bill would also help immigrants from countries hit by civil conflicts or natural disasters who have temporary protected status, known as TPS. U.S. officers arrested or denied entry to over 103,000 people along the border with Mexico in March, a 35 percent increase over the prior month and more than twice as many as the same period last year, according to data released by U.S. Customs and Border Protection this week. The steady increase in migrant arrivals, which has been building over the past several months, is driven by a growing number of children and families, especially from Central America.  Trump has threatened to close the border, saying the United States is "full." He has urged the building of a wall on the southern border since before he became president in 2016. Recently his ire has been directed at his own officials, Congress, and Latin American countries, who he says have not done enough to stop their citizens from traveling to the United States. Pelosi, asked Thursday what should be done at the border, said the bipartisan legislation Trump signed to end a government shutdown in February included money for judges and humanitarian aid "to bring order to the border," but Trump has not used the funds. Although a bipartisan effort at comprehensive immigration reform by Democrats and Trump last year failed, Pelosi said such an overhaul still had a chance. "I'm not giving up on the president on this," Pelosi said. "I still say to him, 'We've got to have comprehensive immigration reform'."  Representative Pramila Jayapal, speaking to reporters later, said the Trump administration had manufactured a crisis at the border in part by "stripping away" legal routes to immigration, such as by stopping asylum seekers at legal ports of entry. Trying to curb the flow of Central American asylum seekers, the administration has been sending more people back to Mexico to wait for their asylum claims to be heard by U.S. courts.  Representative David Cicilline said the Trump administration had exacerbated a challenging border situation by not spending money that was appropriated for border facilities and personnel, as well as by cutting off aid to Central American countries for sending migrants to the United States. Cicilline, who runs the House Democrats' policy and communications committee, denied Democrats were simply "looking on helplessly" at the problems. "But the administration has responsibility in all these areas. And we can appropriate funding and we can pass legislation but ultimately they are responsible for executing the immigration laws in this country," he said.  (Reporting by Susan Cornwell; Editing by James Dalgleish)Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — Attorney General William Barr said on Wednesday he would look into whether U.S. agencies illegally spied on President Donald Trump's 2016 campaign, sparking criticism from Democrats who accused him of promoting a conspiracy theory. Barr, who was appointed by Trump, is already facing criticism by congressional Democrats for how he has handled the release of Special Counsel Robert Mueller's report on the probe of Russian interference in the 2016 election, and his comments about surveillance brought more derision from Democratic senators. His testimony echoed longstanding allegations by Trump and Republican allies that seeks to cast doubt on the early days of the federal investigation in an apparent attempt to discredit Mueller, law enforcement and intelligence agencies. Earlier on Wednesday, Trump dialled up his rhetoric on the launch of the federal investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 election, describing it as "an attempted coup" and treason.  Barr told senators at a hearing on Wednesday that he felt the need to further probe how U.S. intelligence agencies conducted themselves in the Russia investigation because "spying on a political campaign is a big deal." "So you're not suggesting, though, that spying occurred?" asked Senator Jeanne Shaheen, the ranking Democrat on the Senate appropriations subcommittee.  "I think spying did occur," said Barr, the top U.S. law enforcement officer. "But the question is whether it was adequately predicated, and I am not suggesting that it wasn't adequately predicated." Barr acknowledged under sharp questioning by lawmakers that there was no evidence of wrongdoing, and later declined to elaborate on why he has concerns. Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer said in a tweet that Barr should retract his comments. "Perpetuating conspiracy theories is beneath the office of the Attorney General," Schumer wrote. "It sounds as though he thinks that the FBI is conducting some kind of a rogue investigation without the appropriate warrants. I think that's astounding coming from the attorney general," Senator Mazie Hirono, a Democrat who serves on the Senate Judiciary committee, said in an interview with Reuters. Trump on Wednesday launched an especially blistering assault on the actions of FBI officials who began the investigation into the 2016 election before Mueller was appointed in May 2017.  "It was started illegally," Trump told reporters at the White House, without citing any evidence. "Everything about it was crooked. Every single thing about it. There were dirty cops," he said. "What they did was treason."  Trump allies in Congress backed Barr over his comments. Republican Representative Jim Jordan tweeted: "Pursuing the truth! Holding people accountable! Exactly what Americans want from their Attorney General." BARR HAS MUELLER REPORT  Trump on Tuesday praised Barr for his appearance in Congress, saying he was pleased the attorney general was interested in "going back to the origins of exactly where this all started. "So hopefully that will happen," Trump said. "There is a hunger for that to happen in this country like I've never seen before." The attorney general is overseeing the release to Congress of the report by Mueller about his 22-month probe into whether members of Trump's campaign colluded with Russia during the White House race and if Trump obstructed official inquiries into the matter. Barr on Tuesday said a redacted version of the report would be released within a week. It is expected to shed light on some of the more contentious episodes of Trump's election bid and presidency, including his firing of FBI Director James Comey in 2017 and his campaign's contacts with Russians.  Democrats are pushing Barr to release the full 400-page report Mueller submitted to him on March 22, with many of them questioning whether Barr sugarcoated its findings in a letter to Congress. In the March 24 letter, Barr said Mueller's investigation did not establish that members of Trump's election campaign conspired with Russia. He also said Mueller presented evidence "on both sides" about whether Trump obstructed justice, but he did not draw a conclusion one way or the other. At the Senate Appropriations subcommittee hearing, Democratic Senator Brian Schatz pressed Barr on his use of the term "spying," which he called "unnecessarily inflammatory." Barr modified his language, saying, "I want to make sure there was no unauthorised surveillance." He was also asked if he had any evidence of wrongdoing in the course of the federal probe of whether the Trump campaign worked with Moscow to sway the election. "I have no specific evidence that I would cite right now, I do have some questions about it," Barr replied. Barr told the committee that he would review all the intelligence activities directed at Trump's 2016 campaign, and added that his review was not specifically directed at the FBI. Barr noted much of this has been done already, both in Congress and by the Justice Department inspector general, but that he will pull it all together to see if there may be "remaining questions to be addressed." Inspector General Michael Horowitz is investigating whether the FBI and Justice Department followed proper procedures when they applied for a Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act warrant to conduct surveillance on former Trump adviser Carter Page and his ties to Russia. Barr said on Tuesday that investigation was due to wrap up in May or June.   (Reporting by Sarah N. Lynch and Doina Chiacu; Additional reporting by Susan Cornwell; Writing by Lawrence Hurley; Editing by Alistair Bell and Leslie Adler)

Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — Attorney General William Barr said on Wednesday he would look into whether U.S. agencies illegally spied on President Donald Trump's 2016 campaign, sparking criticism from Democrats who accused him of promoting a conspiracy theory. Barr, who was appointed by Trump, is already facing criticism by congressional Democrats for how he has handled the release of Special Counsel Robert Mueller's report on the probe of Russian interference in the 2016 election, and his comments about surveillance brought more derision from Democratic senators. His testimony echoed longstanding allegations by Trump and Republican allies that seeks to cast doubt on the early days of the federal investigation in an apparent attempt to discredit Mueller, law enforcement and intelligence agencies. Earlier on Wednesday, Trump dialled up his rhetoric on the launch of the federal investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 election, describing it as "an attempted coup" and treason.  Barr told senators at a hearing on Wednesday that he felt the need to further probe how U.S. intelligence agencies conducted themselves in the Russia investigation because "spying on a political campaign is a big deal." "So you're not suggesting, though, that spying occurred?" asked Senator Jeanne Shaheen, the ranking Democrat on the Senate appropriations subcommittee.  "I think spying did occur," said Barr, the top U.S. law enforcement officer. "But the question is whether it was adequately predicated, and I am not suggesting that it wasn't adequately predicated." Barr acknowledged under sharp questioning by lawmakers that there was no evidence of wrongdoing, and later declined to elaborate on why he has concerns. Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer said in a tweet that Barr should retract his comments. "Perpetuating conspiracy theories is beneath the office of the Attorney General," Schumer wrote. "It sounds as though he thinks that the FBI is conducting some kind of a rogue investigation without the appropriate warrants. I think that's astounding coming from the attorney general," Senator Mazie Hirono, a Democrat who serves on the Senate Judiciary committee, said in an interview with Reuters. Trump on Wednesday launched an especially blistering assault on the actions of FBI officials who began the investigation into the 2016 election before Mueller was appointed in May 2017.  "It was started illegally," Trump told reporters at the White House, without citing any evidence. "Everything about it was crooked. Every single thing about it. There were dirty cops," he said. "What they did was treason."  Trump allies in Congress backed Barr over his comments. Republican Representative Jim Jordan tweeted: "Pursuing the truth! Holding people accountable! Exactly what Americans want from their Attorney General." BARR HAS MUELLER REPORT  Trump on Tuesday praised Barr for his appearance in Congress, saying he was pleased the attorney general was interested in "going back to the origins of exactly where this all started. "So hopefully that will happen," Trump said. "There is a hunger for that to happen in this country like I've never seen before." The attorney general is overseeing the release to Congress of the report by Mueller about his 22-month probe into whether members of Trump's campaign colluded with Russia during the White House race and if Trump obstructed official inquiries into the matter. Barr on Tuesday said a redacted version of the report would be released within a week. It is expected to shed light on some of the more contentious episodes of Trump's election bid and presidency, including his firing of FBI Director James Comey in 2017 and his campaign's contacts with Russians.  Democrats are pushing Barr to release the full 400-page report Mueller submitted to him on March 22, with many of them questioning whether Barr sugarcoated its findings in a letter to Congress. In the March 24 letter, Barr said Mueller's investigation did not establish that members of Trump's election campaign conspired with Russia. He also said Mueller presented evidence "on both sides" about whether Trump obstructed justice, but he did not draw a conclusion one way or the other. At the Senate Appropriations subcommittee hearing, Democratic Senator Brian Schatz pressed Barr on his use of the term "spying," which he called "unnecessarily inflammatory." Barr modified his language, saying, "I want to make sure there was no unauthorised surveillance." He was also asked if he had any evidence of wrongdoing in the course of the federal probe of whether the Trump campaign worked with Moscow to sway the election. "I have no specific evidence that I would cite right now, I do have some questions about it," Barr replied. Barr told the committee that he would review all the intelligence activities directed at Trump's 2016 campaign, and added that his review was not specifically directed at the FBI. Barr noted much of this has been done already, both in Congress and by the Justice Department inspector general, but that he will pull it all together to see if there may be "remaining questions to be addressed." Inspector General Michael Horowitz is investigating whether the FBI and Justice Department followed proper procedures when they applied for a Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act warrant to conduct surveillance on former Trump adviser Carter Page and his ties to Russia. Barr said on Tuesday that investigation was due to wrap up in May or June.   (Reporting by Sarah N. Lynch and Doina Chiacu; Additional reporting by Susan Cornwell; Writing by Lawrence Hurley; Editing by Alistair Bell and Leslie Adler)Supported by By Astead W. Herndon The first reaction came Friday evening, from Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont. President Trump had escalated his political attacks on Ilhan Omar, the Minnesota Democrat who is also one of the first Muslim women to serve in Congress, tweeting an inflammatory video that implied she trivialized the horror of the Sept. 11 terror attacks. Ninety minutes later, Mr. Sanders called the video “disgusting and dangerous,” and an example of “Trump’s racism and hate.” It kicked off a cascade of analogous statements from other Democrats who are running for president, including Senator Elizabeth Warren, Pete Buttigieg and former Representative Beto O’Rourke, all of whom weighed in shortly afterward. Not on that list: Senators Kamala Harris, Kirsten Gillibrand and Cory Booker, who waited until later in the weekend to offer statements of support. It did not go unnoticed. “Black folks are watching. Muslim folks are watching. Brown folks are watching,’’ said Jennifer Epps-Addison, the co-executive director of the Center for Popular Democracy, a liberal organizing group focusing on minority communities. “And we’re making our decisions about who to support in real time. When your sister is being attacked, you can’t wait to get the politics right.” For candidates competing in a wide open presidential primary, the question of how — and when — to engage with Mr. Trump’s political broadsides has become a dividing line among Democrats and party activists. Just as some advocacy groups are looking to make certain policies litmus tests for a candidate’s progressive credentials, such as “Medicare for all” and the Green New Deal, others are monitoring how quickly and forcefully each responds to Mr. Trump’s most inflammatory moments — whether he’s using images from the nation’s darkest days to attack Ms. Omar or suggesting that authorities should release detained migrants in Democratic cities, as he also did in recent days. [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join the conversation around the 2020 presidential race.] Mr. Trump’s actions do not divide Democrats on the merits, as nothing unites all corners of the party more than the desire to oust him from the White House. His effect on the primary is more political; for voters and activists outraged by Mr. Trump’s actions and rhetoric, only a quick and unequivocal response is satisfactory. Mr. Trump set off the controversy when he targeted Ms. Omar on Friday with a video of the World Trade Center burning and other images from the attacks, playing to suggestions from conservatives that she had minimized the horrors of that day in a speech she gave last month. Ms. Omar’s spokesman said the right was mischaracterizing her remarks. In supporting Ms. Omar over the weekend, the differences in the statements from Democrats were slight, but striking. Some candidates, such as Ms. Warren and Ms. Harris, overtly tied Mr. Trump’s actions to xenophobia and an anti-Muslim sentiment. “I’ll be blunt — we must defeat him,” Ms. Harris said. “I am grateful for @IlhanMN courage and leadership and I stand with her — and with others targeted by the President’s anti-Muslim rhetoric,” tweeted another candidate, former Housing Secretary Julián Castro. Candidates who have tried to position themselves as pragmatic options to a party lurching to the left, including Mr. O’Rourke, Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota and Representatives Tim Ryan of Ohio and Eric Swalwell of California, all offered varying measures of support, but also tried to refocus the incident to highlight the need to unify the country. Mr. O’Rourke was criticized for an initial statement that did not mention Ms. Omar by name, but rather said: “We are stronger than this president’s hatred and Islamophobia. Do not let him drive us apart or make us afraid.” Later, on the campaign trail, Mr. O’Rourke updated his rhetoric to match the calls from Democratic activists, invoking Ms. Omar specifically and connecting Mr. Trump’s tweets to controversial policies such as family separation at the border and the administration’s travel ban for predominantly Muslim countries. “This is an incitement to violence against Congresswoman Omar and our fellow Americans who happen to be Muslim,” Mr. O’Rourke said later. “This hatred and division and paranoia and anxiety sown by this president are dangerous, and the consequences frankly are mortal for our fellow Americans,” he added. “He is using the oldest play in the book: fear and division.” Zahra Billoo, the executive director of the Council on American-Islamic Relations chapter in the San Francisco Bay Area, said that, “as a Muslim and a woman of color and a daughter of immigrants,” these moments help give her clarity on who is willing to stand up for her community. While acknowledging that most voters won’t be aware of the fine gradations between the various statements, or the times they were released, Ms. Billoo said the moments in aggregate can help create an impression about which candidates can be trusted by historically marginalized communities. “We are seeing a shift in the Democratic Party where there’s a fracture,” Ms. Billoo said in a phone interview. “One side being moderate, even timid. And the emerging side of the party is stepping up to the plate, and recognizing that we’re in an unprecedented moment in time.” “I’m more invested in the candidates who are willing to speak up and call it what it is,” she said. The statement from Ms. Gillibrand, in particular, raised eyebrows in politically active circles. Though she has sought to cast herself as full-throated progressive, she qualified her support for Ms. Omar by saying, “As a Senator who represents 9/11 victims, I can’t accept any minimizing of that pain.” Critics lashed back, saying her comments only gave more credence to the slew of misinformation surrounding Ms. Omar. Ms. Epps-Addison called it shameful, as did Ms. Billoo. Diane Alston, a 24-year-old from Houston who had recently been quoted in an article about the New York senator’s most vocal superfans, nicknamed “Gillistans,” said the statement was enough to force her to rethink whom she planned to support. “Ilhan didn’t minimize the pain of 9/11 victims,” Ms. Alston said. “For Gillibrand to state that she did — when her words were blatantly taken out of context — is shameful and legitimizes a smear against a black Muslim woman already facing death threats,” she said. Tyler Law, a party strategist and former spokesman for the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, said the weekend should be instructive for all candidates: In an election against Mr. Trump, they will have to be prepared to deal with his shameless politicking, in which he will use his large platform to amplify attacks through the media. “The way this clip was laundered through the press is almost a perfect master class,” Mr. Law said. “The entire media ecosystem our outrage thrives in is so clearly not built for the new perspectives and nuances of the most diverse Democratic caucus in history.” “The 2018 midterms demonstrated clearly that while voters are not eager to support someone who will evoke Trump’s name at every turn,” Mr. Law said, “they sure as hell want someone with the backbone to stand up to this bully.” Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Tom Perez, chairman of the Democratic National Committee, have both been criticized for not standing with Ms. Omar more unequivocally. On Sunday afternoon, Ms. Pelosi announced that she had instructed congressional officials to do a “security assessment” to ensure that Ms. Omar was safe following Mr. Trump’s Twitter post. “The president’s words weigh a ton, and his hateful and inflammatory rhetoric creates real danger,” she said. “President Trump must take down his disrespectful and dangerous video.” On Sunday afternoon, it remained on the president’s page.    

Supported by By Astead W. Herndon The first reaction came Friday evening, from Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont. President Trump had escalated his political attacks on Ilhan Omar, the Minnesota Democrat who is also one of the first Muslim women to serve in Congress, tweeting an inflammatory video that implied she trivialized the horror of the Sept. 11 terror attacks. Ninety minutes later, Mr. Sanders called the video “disgusting and dangerous,” and an example of “Trump’s racism and hate.” It kicked off a cascade of analogous statements from other Democrats who are running for president, including Senator Elizabeth Warren, Pete Buttigieg and former Representative Beto O’Rourke, all of whom weighed in shortly afterward. Not on that list: Senators Kamala Harris, Kirsten Gillibrand and Cory Booker, who waited until later in the weekend to offer statements of support. It did not go unnoticed. “Black folks are watching. Muslim folks are watching. Brown folks are watching,’’ said Jennifer Epps-Addison, the co-executive director of the Center for Popular Democracy, a liberal organizing group focusing on minority communities. “And we’re making our decisions about who to support in real time. When your sister is being attacked, you can’t wait to get the politics right.” For candidates competing in a wide open presidential primary, the question of how — and when — to engage with Mr. Trump’s political broadsides has become a dividing line among Democrats and party activists. Just as some advocacy groups are looking to make certain policies litmus tests for a candidate’s progressive credentials, such as “Medicare for all” and the Green New Deal, others are monitoring how quickly and forcefully each responds to Mr. Trump’s most inflammatory moments — whether he’s using images from the nation’s darkest days to attack Ms. Omar or suggesting that authorities should release detained migrants in Democratic cities, as he also did in recent days. [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join the conversation around the 2020 presidential race.] Mr. Trump’s actions do not divide Democrats on the merits, as nothing unites all corners of the party more than the desire to oust him from the White House. His effect on the primary is more political; for voters and activists outraged by Mr. Trump’s actions and rhetoric, only a quick and unequivocal response is satisfactory. Mr. Trump set off the controversy when he targeted Ms. Omar on Friday with a video of the World Trade Center burning and other images from the attacks, playing to suggestions from conservatives that she had minimized the horrors of that day in a speech she gave last month. Ms. Omar’s spokesman said the right was mischaracterizing her remarks. In supporting Ms. Omar over the weekend, the differences in the statements from Democrats were slight, but striking. Some candidates, such as Ms. Warren and Ms. Harris, overtly tied Mr. Trump’s actions to xenophobia and an anti-Muslim sentiment. “I’ll be blunt — we must defeat him,” Ms. Harris said. “I am grateful for @IlhanMN courage and leadership and I stand with her — and with others targeted by the President’s anti-Muslim rhetoric,” tweeted another candidate, former Housing Secretary Julián Castro. Candidates who have tried to position themselves as pragmatic options to a party lurching to the left, including Mr. O’Rourke, Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota and Representatives Tim Ryan of Ohio and Eric Swalwell of California, all offered varying measures of support, but also tried to refocus the incident to highlight the need to unify the country. Mr. O’Rourke was criticized for an initial statement that did not mention Ms. Omar by name, but rather said: “We are stronger than this president’s hatred and Islamophobia. Do not let him drive us apart or make us afraid.” Later, on the campaign trail, Mr. O’Rourke updated his rhetoric to match the calls from Democratic activists, invoking Ms. Omar specifically and connecting Mr. Trump’s tweets to controversial policies such as family separation at the border and the administration’s travel ban for predominantly Muslim countries. “This is an incitement to violence against Congresswoman Omar and our fellow Americans who happen to be Muslim,” Mr. O’Rourke said later. “This hatred and division and paranoia and anxiety sown by this president are dangerous, and the consequences frankly are mortal for our fellow Americans,” he added. “He is using the oldest play in the book: fear and division.” Zahra Billoo, the executive director of the Council on American-Islamic Relations chapter in the San Francisco Bay Area, said that, “as a Muslim and a woman of color and a daughter of immigrants,” these moments help give her clarity on who is willing to stand up for her community. While acknowledging that most voters won’t be aware of the fine gradations between the various statements, or the times they were released, Ms. Billoo said the moments in aggregate can help create an impression about which candidates can be trusted by historically marginalized communities. “We are seeing a shift in the Democratic Party where there’s a fracture,” Ms. Billoo said in a phone interview. “One side being moderate, even timid. And the emerging side of the party is stepping up to the plate, and recognizing that we’re in an unprecedented moment in time.” “I’m more invested in the candidates who are willing to speak up and call it what it is,” she said. The statement from Ms. Gillibrand, in particular, raised eyebrows in politically active circles. Though she has sought to cast herself as full-throated progressive, she qualified her support for Ms. Omar by saying, “As a Senator who represents 9/11 victims, I can’t accept any minimizing of that pain.” Critics lashed back, saying her comments only gave more credence to the slew of misinformation surrounding Ms. Omar. Ms. Epps-Addison called it shameful, as did Ms. Billoo. Diane Alston, a 24-year-old from Houston who had recently been quoted in an article about the New York senator’s most vocal superfans, nicknamed “Gillistans,” said the statement was enough to force her to rethink whom she planned to support. “Ilhan didn’t minimize the pain of 9/11 victims,” Ms. Alston said. “For Gillibrand to state that she did — when her words were blatantly taken out of context — is shameful and legitimizes a smear against a black Muslim woman already facing death threats,” she said. Tyler Law, a party strategist and former spokesman for the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, said the weekend should be instructive for all candidates: In an election against Mr. Trump, they will have to be prepared to deal with his shameless politicking, in which he will use his large platform to amplify attacks through the media. “The way this clip was laundered through the press is almost a perfect master class,” Mr. Law said. “The entire media ecosystem our outrage thrives in is so clearly not built for the new perspectives and nuances of the most diverse Democratic caucus in history.” “The 2018 midterms demonstrated clearly that while voters are not eager to support someone who will evoke Trump’s name at every turn,” Mr. Law said, “they sure as hell want someone with the backbone to stand up to this bully.” Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Tom Perez, chairman of the Democratic National Committee, have both been criticized for not standing with Ms. Omar more unequivocally. On Sunday afternoon, Ms. Pelosi announced that she had instructed congressional officials to do a “security assessment” to ensure that Ms. Omar was safe following Mr. Trump’s Twitter post. “The president’s words weigh a ton, and his hateful and inflammatory rhetoric creates real danger,” she said. “President Trump must take down his disrespectful and dangerous video.” On Sunday afternoon, it remained on the president’s page.    Supported by By Jonathan Martin, Alan Blinder and Campbell Robertson RICHMOND, Va. — Justin E. Fairfax’s refusal to resign as lieutenant governor of Virginia in the face of two allegations of sexual assault has presented Democrats with an excruciating choice: whether to impeach an African-American leader at a moment when the state’s other two top leaders, both white, are resisting calls to quit after admitting to racist conduct. Less than a week after Gov. Ralph Northam and Attorney General Mark R. Herring said they wore blackface as young men, Mr. Fairfax on Friday faced a second assault accusation in three days. On Saturday night, Mr. Fairfax called on the F.B.I. to investigate the allegations, and asked that “no one rush to judgment” and for “due process.” But he is now under intense pressure to resign or face impeachment, transforming what had been a crisis for Virginia Democrats into a searing dilemma for the national party. The political turmoil for Democratic leaders this weekend is unfolding at the intersection of race and gender, and risks pitting the party’s most pivotal constituencies against one another. If Democrats do not oust Mr. Fairfax, at a time when the party has taken a zero-tolerance stand on sexual misconduct in the #MeToo era, they could anger female voters. But the specter of Mr. Fairfax, 39, being pushed out while two older white men remain in office — despite blackface behavior that evoked some of the country’s most painful racist images — would deeply trouble many African-Americans. [If Justin Fairfax is forced out in Virginia, who would take over his job?]  “I think the Democratic Party would lack credibility if they followed a double standard,” said Representative Karen Bass of California, who is the head of the Congressional Black Caucus. Ms. Bass said that both Mr. Northam and Mr. Fairfax should step down. President Trump, who lashed out at Mr. Northam in his State of the Union address, prodded Democrats on Twitter Sunday for that perceived double standard. On Saturday, an adviser to Mr. Fairfax said the lieutenant governor was deeply distraught over the allegations and had no intention of resigning. In Mr. Fairfax’s statement on Saturday night, the lieutenant governor confirmed he had an encounter with his second accuser, Meredith Watson, but said it was consensual. He asked for an independent investigation of all the allegations and for he and his accusers to “be respected during this process.” In another sign that Mr. Fairfax will attempt to remain in office, he has added an African-American woman from the state’s most politically influential law firm to his legal team. The woman, Ava Lias-Booker, is a partner at McGuireWoods who, like Mr. Fairfax and Ms. Watson, graduated from Duke University. [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] Almost all of Virginia’s Democratic leaders and lawmakers on Friday night called on Mr. Fairfax to resign, and a legislator vowed to introduce articles of impeachment if Mr. Fairfax did not quit by Monday. Statements released Saturday night by the legal teams of both of Mr. Fairfax’s accusers said the women would be willing to testify at an impeachment proceeding against Mr. Fairfax. The state Democratic Party, after a conference call of its steering committee on Saturday morning in which there was near-unanimous support for Mr. Fairfax to resign, issued a statement saying he no longer had “their confidence or support” and should quit. “It’s a nightmare right now,” said Representative A. Donald McEachin, a Virginia Democrat who can trace his history here back to Revolutionary War-era slaves. “We’ve worked hard on the Democratic brand for so many years,” he said, “and now we have to deal with this.” Gov. Northam also insists he will not resign. He does not face an imminent impeachment threat, and neither does Mr. Herring, the attorney general and second in line to the governor, who has been effusively apologizing for once wearing blackface. The governor, in an interview on Saturday with The Washington Post, said he intends to use the remainder of his term to pursue racial reconciliation and has been reading works like “The Case for Reparations” by Ta-Nehisi Coates and Alex Haley’s “Roots” to learn more about experiences of African-Americans. Just how far Virginia Democrats go to confront these three statewide officials — who swept into office in 2017 on the first wave of backlash to President Trump’s election — will send a signal about how committed they are to taking a hard line on racial and sexual transgressions, and will echo well beyond this state’s borders. To some Democrats, Mr. Fairfax’s alleged conduct is the most serious because he is the only one of the three accused of a crime. But that does not make the political quandary any less torturous at a moment when the party’s 2020 presidential primary is getting underway with more black and female candidates than have ever run for the White House. “To show a firm grasp of the obvious, the optics would be difficult and the substance would be difficult,” said State Senator J. Chapman Petersen, who is white, about how it would look if Mr. Northam and Mr. Herring remained in office while Mr. Fairfax was exiled. Women and African-Americans have never been more politically powerful: The Democrats’ 40-seat win in the House midterm elections in November, as well as their 2017 triumph in the top Virginia races, was powered in no small part by those voters. And with Republicans barely hanging on to their legislative majority in the Virginia Capitol, Democrats were counting on the same two blocs to propel them to victory in this fall’s election of all 140 delegates and state senators. Ultimately, some Democrats here said, they must begin the process of emerging from the wreckage that is the executive branch of Virginia state government by turning to what is perhaps their most loyal constituency: black women. And barely hours after Ms. Watson came forward on Friday saying she was raped by Mr. Fairfax in 2000 when they were students at Duke University, several senior Virginia Democrats began making the case that should Mr. Northam continue his refusal to resign, he ought to appoint State Senator Jennifer McClellan to replace Mr. Fairfax if he quits or is impeached. (It is not certain that Mr. Northam could appoint any successor to Mr. Fairfax, scholars said, because of conflicting provisions and interpretations of the Virginia Constitution and state law.) Ms. McClellan, who is black, is a longtime Richmond legislator who was already thought to have statewide ambitions and has a close relationship with Senator Tim Kaine. “Jennifer would make an exceptionally good lieutenant governor,” said C. Richard Cranwell, a former state Democratic chairman and legislator, when asked about the senator. Delegate Charniele L. Herring, who is the chairwoman of the House Democratic Caucus and a former chair of the Democratic Party of Virginia, said, “African-American women have been a core, consistent base, and it’s important that we as a party reconcile with them.” But some of the country’s most prominent black women were just as confounded about the way forward as any Democrat in Virginia. “This has been one of the most difficult political weeks of my life,” said Donna Brazile, the former chairwoman of the Democratic National Committee. “There’s no playbook for this.” Even before Ms. Watson made her accusation Friday, Mr. Fairfax was in grave jeopardy. He infuriated Virginia’s three freshman Democratic women in the congressional delegation with his dismissive treatment of the initial assault claim made by Vanessa C. Tyson, and then compounded his difficulty by not calling any of them. Similarly, he had not called Mr. McEachin, one of two African-Americans in the delegation, before Ms. Watson spoke out. “You don’t need to be a woman to be upset about the way Justin has handled this,” Mr. McEachin said. It came to no surprise to Virginia Democrats, then, when Mr. McEachin and the three female lawmakers — Representatives Elaine Luria, Abigail Spanberger and Jennifer Wexton — were some of the earliest on Friday night to demand Mr. Fairfax resign. As for Mr. Northam, the governor, he told his cabinet on Friday that he would not resign. In an email to state employees acknowledging that the state is in “uncharted waters,” he said: “You have placed your trust in me to lead Virginia forward — and I plan to do that.” But some black Democrats are unhappy about the prospect of him remaining in office, after he acknowledged he wore shoe polish to go in blackface as part of a Michael Jackson costume for a dance contest in 1984. Yet Ms. Bass, the Congressional Black Caucus leader, and other Democrats offered some measure of praise for Mr. Herring, who revealed that he wore blackface to imitate a rapper as a University of Virginia undergraduate but has pleaded for forgiveness from the state’s black lawmakers. “At least he came forward and seemed to be sincere and apologized,” Ms. Bass said. Other national Democrats also praised Mr. Herring, who methodically reached out to nearly every prominent African-American lawmaker in Virginia, and said it was time the party reconsider its demands for instant accountability for the transgressors in its ranks. “It’s unrealistic to expect politicians to have lived perfect lives — the general public doesn’t expect that, and they are much more forgiving than the Twitter outrage mob,” said Elisabeth Smith, a Democratic strategist, singling out Mr. Herring. “If anything, we’ve learned the importance of taking a step back and taking a deep breath before demanding these guys’ heads on a plate.” But there is far less sympathy among black lawmakers in the Capitol for the governor, who has flip-flopped about whether he was in a racist photo that appeared on his medical school yearbook page. “Northam called me Friday night and took ownership of that photo and said, ‘I’m sorry, that’s me in the photo,’” recalled Ms. Herring, who is not related to the attorney general. “Then, Saturday, moonwalks it back, and then adds some more pain with the description about how he needs to only put a light coat of shoe polish on because it’s hard to get off. He doesn’t get it.” For Ms. Herring and other legislators, the controversies over blackface were painful reminders of the state’s not-so-distant past and its lingering prejudices. Ms. Herring said she had often thought about a particular red glow from her childhood: what she saw when a cross burned outside her Georgia home when she was 9. And just a few blocks north of Virginia’s elegant state capitol, several black Richmonders were downright suspicious of Mr. Northam. The Virginia crisis began a week ago Friday when Mr. Northam’s yearbook page surfaced on a conservative website, with one photo featuring a man in blackface and another in Ku Klux Klan robes, and Mr. Northam said he was in the photo and then, a day later, said he was not. Now it is Mr. Fairfax who is under far more pressure to resign or get impeached than Mr. Northam. Deon Wright, 42, said he did not know what to think about the various parts of the political crisis. But one thing is certain, Mr. Wright said: “You’re more able to survive as a white man in America who wore blackface than as a black man that’s facing #MeToo accusations.” Sheryl Stolberg contributed reporting from Washington.   

Supported by By Jonathan Martin, Alan Blinder and Campbell Robertson RICHMOND, Va. — Justin E. Fairfax’s refusal to resign as lieutenant governor of Virginia in the face of two allegations of sexual assault has presented Democrats with an excruciating choice: whether to impeach an African-American leader at a moment when the state’s other two top leaders, both white, are resisting calls to quit after admitting to racist conduct. Less than a week after Gov. Ralph Northam and Attorney General Mark R. Herring said they wore blackface as young men, Mr. Fairfax on Friday faced a second assault accusation in three days. On Saturday night, Mr. Fairfax called on the F.B.I. to investigate the allegations, and asked that “no one rush to judgment” and for “due process.” But he is now under intense pressure to resign or face impeachment, transforming what had been a crisis for Virginia Democrats into a searing dilemma for the national party. The political turmoil for Democratic leaders this weekend is unfolding at the intersection of race and gender, and risks pitting the party’s most pivotal constituencies against one another. If Democrats do not oust Mr. Fairfax, at a time when the party has taken a zero-tolerance stand on sexual misconduct in the #MeToo era, they could anger female voters. But the specter of Mr. Fairfax, 39, being pushed out while two older white men remain in office — despite blackface behavior that evoked some of the country’s most painful racist images — would deeply trouble many African-Americans. [If Justin Fairfax is forced out in Virginia, who would take over his job?]  “I think the Democratic Party would lack credibility if they followed a double standard,” said Representative Karen Bass of California, who is the head of the Congressional Black Caucus. Ms. Bass said that both Mr. Northam and Mr. Fairfax should step down. President Trump, who lashed out at Mr. Northam in his State of the Union address, prodded Democrats on Twitter Sunday for that perceived double standard. On Saturday, an adviser to Mr. Fairfax said the lieutenant governor was deeply distraught over the allegations and had no intention of resigning. In Mr. Fairfax’s statement on Saturday night, the lieutenant governor confirmed he had an encounter with his second accuser, Meredith Watson, but said it was consensual. He asked for an independent investigation of all the allegations and for he and his accusers to “be respected during this process.” In another sign that Mr. Fairfax will attempt to remain in office, he has added an African-American woman from the state’s most politically influential law firm to his legal team. The woman, Ava Lias-Booker, is a partner at McGuireWoods who, like Mr. Fairfax and Ms. Watson, graduated from Duke University. [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] Almost all of Virginia’s Democratic leaders and lawmakers on Friday night called on Mr. Fairfax to resign, and a legislator vowed to introduce articles of impeachment if Mr. Fairfax did not quit by Monday. Statements released Saturday night by the legal teams of both of Mr. Fairfax’s accusers said the women would be willing to testify at an impeachment proceeding against Mr. Fairfax. The state Democratic Party, after a conference call of its steering committee on Saturday morning in which there was near-unanimous support for Mr. Fairfax to resign, issued a statement saying he no longer had “their confidence or support” and should quit. “It’s a nightmare right now,” said Representative A. Donald McEachin, a Virginia Democrat who can trace his history here back to Revolutionary War-era slaves. “We’ve worked hard on the Democratic brand for so many years,” he said, “and now we have to deal with this.” Gov. Northam also insists he will not resign. He does not face an imminent impeachment threat, and neither does Mr. Herring, the attorney general and second in line to the governor, who has been effusively apologizing for once wearing blackface. The governor, in an interview on Saturday with The Washington Post, said he intends to use the remainder of his term to pursue racial reconciliation and has been reading works like “The Case for Reparations” by Ta-Nehisi Coates and Alex Haley’s “Roots” to learn more about experiences of African-Americans. Just how far Virginia Democrats go to confront these three statewide officials — who swept into office in 2017 on the first wave of backlash to President Trump’s election — will send a signal about how committed they are to taking a hard line on racial and sexual transgressions, and will echo well beyond this state’s borders. To some Democrats, Mr. Fairfax’s alleged conduct is the most serious because he is the only one of the three accused of a crime. But that does not make the political quandary any less torturous at a moment when the party’s 2020 presidential primary is getting underway with more black and female candidates than have ever run for the White House. “To show a firm grasp of the obvious, the optics would be difficult and the substance would be difficult,” said State Senator J. Chapman Petersen, who is white, about how it would look if Mr. Northam and Mr. Herring remained in office while Mr. Fairfax was exiled. Women and African-Americans have never been more politically powerful: The Democrats’ 40-seat win in the House midterm elections in November, as well as their 2017 triumph in the top Virginia races, was powered in no small part by those voters. And with Republicans barely hanging on to their legislative majority in the Virginia Capitol, Democrats were counting on the same two blocs to propel them to victory in this fall’s election of all 140 delegates and state senators. Ultimately, some Democrats here said, they must begin the process of emerging from the wreckage that is the executive branch of Virginia state government by turning to what is perhaps their most loyal constituency: black women. And barely hours after Ms. Watson came forward on Friday saying she was raped by Mr. Fairfax in 2000 when they were students at Duke University, several senior Virginia Democrats began making the case that should Mr. Northam continue his refusal to resign, he ought to appoint State Senator Jennifer McClellan to replace Mr. Fairfax if he quits or is impeached. (It is not certain that Mr. Northam could appoint any successor to Mr. Fairfax, scholars said, because of conflicting provisions and interpretations of the Virginia Constitution and state law.) Ms. McClellan, who is black, is a longtime Richmond legislator who was already thought to have statewide ambitions and has a close relationship with Senator Tim Kaine. “Jennifer would make an exceptionally good lieutenant governor,” said C. Richard Cranwell, a former state Democratic chairman and legislator, when asked about the senator. Delegate Charniele L. Herring, who is the chairwoman of the House Democratic Caucus and a former chair of the Democratic Party of Virginia, said, “African-American women have been a core, consistent base, and it’s important that we as a party reconcile with them.” But some of the country’s most prominent black women were just as confounded about the way forward as any Democrat in Virginia. “This has been one of the most difficult political weeks of my life,” said Donna Brazile, the former chairwoman of the Democratic National Committee. “There’s no playbook for this.” Even before Ms. Watson made her accusation Friday, Mr. Fairfax was in grave jeopardy. He infuriated Virginia’s three freshman Democratic women in the congressional delegation with his dismissive treatment of the initial assault claim made by Vanessa C. Tyson, and then compounded his difficulty by not calling any of them. Similarly, he had not called Mr. McEachin, one of two African-Americans in the delegation, before Ms. Watson spoke out. “You don’t need to be a woman to be upset about the way Justin has handled this,” Mr. McEachin said. It came to no surprise to Virginia Democrats, then, when Mr. McEachin and the three female lawmakers — Representatives Elaine Luria, Abigail Spanberger and Jennifer Wexton — were some of the earliest on Friday night to demand Mr. Fairfax resign. As for Mr. Northam, the governor, he told his cabinet on Friday that he would not resign. In an email to state employees acknowledging that the state is in “uncharted waters,” he said: “You have placed your trust in me to lead Virginia forward — and I plan to do that.” But some black Democrats are unhappy about the prospect of him remaining in office, after he acknowledged he wore shoe polish to go in blackface as part of a Michael Jackson costume for a dance contest in 1984. Yet Ms. Bass, the Congressional Black Caucus leader, and other Democrats offered some measure of praise for Mr. Herring, who revealed that he wore blackface to imitate a rapper as a University of Virginia undergraduate but has pleaded for forgiveness from the state’s black lawmakers. “At least he came forward and seemed to be sincere and apologized,” Ms. Bass said. Other national Democrats also praised Mr. Herring, who methodically reached out to nearly every prominent African-American lawmaker in Virginia, and said it was time the party reconsider its demands for instant accountability for the transgressors in its ranks. “It’s unrealistic to expect politicians to have lived perfect lives — the general public doesn’t expect that, and they are much more forgiving than the Twitter outrage mob,” said Elisabeth Smith, a Democratic strategist, singling out Mr. Herring. “If anything, we’ve learned the importance of taking a step back and taking a deep breath before demanding these guys’ heads on a plate.” But there is far less sympathy among black lawmakers in the Capitol for the governor, who has flip-flopped about whether he was in a racist photo that appeared on his medical school yearbook page. “Northam called me Friday night and took ownership of that photo and said, ‘I’m sorry, that’s me in the photo,’” recalled Ms. Herring, who is not related to the attorney general. “Then, Saturday, moonwalks it back, and then adds some more pain with the description about how he needs to only put a light coat of shoe polish on because it’s hard to get off. He doesn’t get it.” For Ms. Herring and other legislators, the controversies over blackface were painful reminders of the state’s not-so-distant past and its lingering prejudices. Ms. Herring said she had often thought about a particular red glow from her childhood: what she saw when a cross burned outside her Georgia home when she was 9. And just a few blocks north of Virginia’s elegant state capitol, several black Richmonders were downright suspicious of Mr. Northam. The Virginia crisis began a week ago Friday when Mr. Northam’s yearbook page surfaced on a conservative website, with one photo featuring a man in blackface and another in Ku Klux Klan robes, and Mr. Northam said he was in the photo and then, a day later, said he was not. Now it is Mr. Fairfax who is under far more pressure to resign or get impeached than Mr. Northam. Deon Wright, 42, said he did not know what to think about the various parts of the political crisis. But one thing is certain, Mr. Wright said: “You’re more able to survive as a white man in America who wore blackface than as a black man that’s facing #MeToo accusations.” Sheryl Stolberg contributed reporting from Washington.   Supported by Does the Democratic Party still have centrists? Does it need them? By Ross Douthat Opinion Columnist Since at least the middle of the Obama era, all the energy and activity and creativity in the Democratic coalition has been with people pushing the party away from any kind of centrism — with the journals and zines that have resuscitated something they call socialism, with the activists trying to impose the college-campus style of cultural liberalism on the wider country (or at least the wider internet), with the feminists and intersectional types and Bernie Bros who clash and feud and sometimes absolutely hate one another, but still share a common “to the left, march” purpose. Now that energy has transformed Democratic politics. We have a swelling Democratic 2020 field in which a capital-S Socialist is arguably the front-runner, most of the declared candidates are offering maximal ideological ambition, and the last Democratic vice president is hesitating to run in part because of all his long-gone compromises with conservatism. With Clintonism as toxic as Bill Clinton’s post-#MeToo reputation, even the old Clintonites are throwing in the towel. In a memorable Twitter thread, the center-left economist Brad DeLong argued that the time has come for centrists to become, in effect, junior partners in the Democratic coalition, working to sharpen and smarten up the new socialism rather than seeking Republican partners and bipartisan reforms. DeLong’s Twitter assessment of why the center-left no longer deserves to leads the Democratic Party is worth quoting in full: On the center … those like me in what used to proudly call itself the Rubin Wing of the Democratic Party — so-called after former Treasury Secretary Bob Rubin, and consisting of those of us hoping to use market means to social democratic ends in bipartisan coalition with Republicans seeking technocratic win-wins — have passed the baton to our left. Over the past 25 years, we failed to attract Republican coalition partners, we failed to energize our own base, and we failed to produce enough large-scale obvious policy wins to cement the center into a durable governing coalition. We blame cynical Republican politicians. We blame corrupt and craven media bosses and princelings. We are right to blame them, but shared responsibility is not diminished responsibility. And so the baton rightly passes to our colleagues on our left. We are still here, but it is not our time to lead. This is harsh but (somewhat) fair; if more members of the Western political elite were this self-critical, the Western political elite would be in (somewhat) better shape. But there is also something missing in DeLong’s self-criticism, a blind spot common to the contemporary center-left, which points to one reason a “durable governing coalition” may continue to elude the Democratic Party’s grasp. One way to distill the center-left failure that DeLong describes is this: Over the last 15 years, the center-left establishment in the United States separated itself from the Democratic base on two major issues — its support for the Iraq War in the early 2000s, and its support for a bipartisan “grand bargain” on fiscal issues in the early-to-middle Obama years. The first separation was a disaster, the second one was a mistake. And neither ultimately helped the Democratic coalition win elections. Another way to distill the failure is to say that in the last decade or so the center-left attempted a series of policy compromises — Obamacare instead of single-payer, cap-and-trade instead of a Green New Deal, modest upper-bracket tax increases instead of big attempts to soak the rich — and then discovered that the Republican Party was either still too far away ideologically or too much of an internally divided mess to make a lasting deal on any issue. And meanwhile the compromises were often unpopular with swing voters — as Obamacare was at first, as cap-and-trade or a carbon tax probably would be (just ask Emmanuel Macron) — so there was no obvious political advantage to making them pre-emptively. Both of these accounts fit DeLong’s narrative; both make a case for letting the further-left parts of the Democratic coalition try leadership instead, and seeking compromises between socialists and liberals rather than pining for moderate-Republican partners who don’t appear to be in evidence. But then consider a third distillation, a third narrative, in which the center-left’s signal political failure was that it never really sought to preserve a cultural centrism, which meant over time that its party’s approach to social issues has been dictated more and more completely by the left. In this story the political success of Bill Clinton reflected not only his compromises with Republicans on taxes and spending, his tacit nods to Reaganomics, but also his ability to infuse a centrist liberalism with reassuring nods to various kinds of moderate cultural conservatism — the school uniform and v-chip business and the rhetoric of “safe, legal and rare” on abortion, the easy Baptist religiosity, the tacitly center-right positions on immigration and crime and same-sex marriage. If Clinton had matched this cultural conservatism with decency in his private life, Al Gore would have won re-election as his heir and the larger story of the center-left might have been entirely different. But instead, from the mid-2000s onward, the leftward flank of the Democratic Party looked at the country’s changing demographics and growing social liberalism and decided that Clinton’s compromises with cultural conservatism weren’t as politically necessary as they had been (which was true), and that therefore they were free to become increasingly ideologically maximalist on everything touching gender or race or sexuality or immigration (which was … not true). In this sense the story of the Democrats’ struggles over the last 15 years is a story of a party that has consistently moved leftward faster than the also-changing country, and consistently overread victories — on same-sex marriage above all — as a template for how every cultural battle should play out. It’s a story of a new feminism that’s pushing the party ever-further from the center on abortion, of a new cohort of white liberals who are actually to the left of many African-Americans on racial issues, of an activist base that brands positions that many liberals held only yesterday as not only mistaken but bigoted or racist or beyond-the-pale. And in this part of the Democratic coalition’s story, the center-left’s role has been extraordinarily passive, essentially following the cultural left a tiny bit more slowly rather than trying to devise a more moderate approach. You can find hints of what such a moderate approach might look like in intellectual projects like Jonathan Haidt’s Heterodox Academy, or in the probing, evenhanded culture-war reportage of the magazine writer Jesse Singal (whom I hesitate to even praise because it will do him no favors on the internet). But that cultural moderation has no substantial political form, no important champions within the Democratic Party. It has Joe Manchin and Tulsi Gabbard, maybe, but they are eccentric figures; elsewhere among the Democrats there is little interest in considering all the different ways that cultural extremism costs them votes. Which means that if the center-left abdicates, DeLong-style, on economic policy, the Democratic Party as a whole will have moved to the left on every front, writing off not only the possibility of compromising with Republican politicians (which, for now, might be understandable) but also the possibility of winning over voters who would almost certainly be Democrats if the party still occupied the cultural terrain that it held in 2000 or even as late as 2008. Because the country as a whole has also shifted left since 2000, that kind of writing-off will not prevent the Democrats from winning elections; it probably won’t prevent them from beating Donald Trump. But it will stand in the way of any dramatic left-of-center consolidation, any kind of more-than-temporary Democratic governance. And if the center-left feels itself irrelevant in an age of socialist ambition, then taking up the task of rebuilding a cultural center, and a Democratic Party capable of claiming it, seems like the task that might actually be suited to the times. Sadly the rest of the DeLong thread didn’t take up that possibility. It degenerated, instead, into a howl against Republican fascism and a post-Protestant sermon about how liberal America can build the true and only heaven, the real shining city on the hill. Which suggests that to reckon with the possibility that making liberalism a pseudo-church might be a problem, not an aspiration, we need a very different center-left from the one surrendering today. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTOpinion) and Instagram, join the Facebook political discussion group, Voting While Female. Ross Douthat has been an Opinion columnist for The Times since 2009. He is the author of several books, most recently, “To Change the Church: Pope Francis and the Future of Catholicism.”
You can follow him on Twitter:  @DouthatNYT  You can follow him on Twitter:  @DouthatNYT 

Supported by Does the Democratic Party still have centrists? Does it need them? By Ross Douthat Opinion Columnist Since at least the middle of the Obama era, all the energy and activity and creativity in the Democratic coalition has been with people pushing the party away from any kind of centrism — with the journals and zines that have resuscitated something they call socialism, with the activists trying to impose the college-campus style of cultural liberalism on the wider country (or at least the wider internet), with the feminists and intersectional types and Bernie Bros who clash and feud and sometimes absolutely hate one another, but still share a common “to the left, march” purpose. Now that energy has transformed Democratic politics. We have a swelling Democratic 2020 field in which a capital-S Socialist is arguably the front-runner, most of the declared candidates are offering maximal ideological ambition, and the last Democratic vice president is hesitating to run in part because of all his long-gone compromises with conservatism. With Clintonism as toxic as Bill Clinton’s post-#MeToo reputation, even the old Clintonites are throwing in the towel. In a memorable Twitter thread, the center-left economist Brad DeLong argued that the time has come for centrists to become, in effect, junior partners in the Democratic coalition, working to sharpen and smarten up the new socialism rather than seeking Republican partners and bipartisan reforms. DeLong’s Twitter assessment of why the center-left no longer deserves to leads the Democratic Party is worth quoting in full: On the center … those like me in what used to proudly call itself the Rubin Wing of the Democratic Party — so-called after former Treasury Secretary Bob Rubin, and consisting of those of us hoping to use market means to social democratic ends in bipartisan coalition with Republicans seeking technocratic win-wins — have passed the baton to our left. Over the past 25 years, we failed to attract Republican coalition partners, we failed to energize our own base, and we failed to produce enough large-scale obvious policy wins to cement the center into a durable governing coalition. We blame cynical Republican politicians. We blame corrupt and craven media bosses and princelings. We are right to blame them, but shared responsibility is not diminished responsibility. And so the baton rightly passes to our colleagues on our left. We are still here, but it is not our time to lead. This is harsh but (somewhat) fair; if more members of the Western political elite were this self-critical, the Western political elite would be in (somewhat) better shape. But there is also something missing in DeLong’s self-criticism, a blind spot common to the contemporary center-left, which points to one reason a “durable governing coalition” may continue to elude the Democratic Party’s grasp. One way to distill the center-left failure that DeLong describes is this: Over the last 15 years, the center-left establishment in the United States separated itself from the Democratic base on two major issues — its support for the Iraq War in the early 2000s, and its support for a bipartisan “grand bargain” on fiscal issues in the early-to-middle Obama years. The first separation was a disaster, the second one was a mistake. And neither ultimately helped the Democratic coalition win elections. Another way to distill the failure is to say that in the last decade or so the center-left attempted a series of policy compromises — Obamacare instead of single-payer, cap-and-trade instead of a Green New Deal, modest upper-bracket tax increases instead of big attempts to soak the rich — and then discovered that the Republican Party was either still too far away ideologically or too much of an internally divided mess to make a lasting deal on any issue. And meanwhile the compromises were often unpopular with swing voters — as Obamacare was at first, as cap-and-trade or a carbon tax probably would be (just ask Emmanuel Macron) — so there was no obvious political advantage to making them pre-emptively. Both of these accounts fit DeLong’s narrative; both make a case for letting the further-left parts of the Democratic coalition try leadership instead, and seeking compromises between socialists and liberals rather than pining for moderate-Republican partners who don’t appear to be in evidence. But then consider a third distillation, a third narrative, in which the center-left’s signal political failure was that it never really sought to preserve a cultural centrism, which meant over time that its party’s approach to social issues has been dictated more and more completely by the left. In this story the political success of Bill Clinton reflected not only his compromises with Republicans on taxes and spending, his tacit nods to Reaganomics, but also his ability to infuse a centrist liberalism with reassuring nods to various kinds of moderate cultural conservatism — the school uniform and v-chip business and the rhetoric of “safe, legal and rare” on abortion, the easy Baptist religiosity, the tacitly center-right positions on immigration and crime and same-sex marriage. If Clinton had matched this cultural conservatism with decency in his private life, Al Gore would have won re-election as his heir and the larger story of the center-left might have been entirely different. But instead, from the mid-2000s onward, the leftward flank of the Democratic Party looked at the country’s changing demographics and growing social liberalism and decided that Clinton’s compromises with cultural conservatism weren’t as politically necessary as they had been (which was true), and that therefore they were free to become increasingly ideologically maximalist on everything touching gender or race or sexuality or immigration (which was … not true). In this sense the story of the Democrats’ struggles over the last 15 years is a story of a party that has consistently moved leftward faster than the also-changing country, and consistently overread victories — on same-sex marriage above all — as a template for how every cultural battle should play out. It’s a story of a new feminism that’s pushing the party ever-further from the center on abortion, of a new cohort of white liberals who are actually to the left of many African-Americans on racial issues, of an activist base that brands positions that many liberals held only yesterday as not only mistaken but bigoted or racist or beyond-the-pale. And in this part of the Democratic coalition’s story, the center-left’s role has been extraordinarily passive, essentially following the cultural left a tiny bit more slowly rather than trying to devise a more moderate approach. You can find hints of what such a moderate approach might look like in intellectual projects like Jonathan Haidt’s Heterodox Academy, or in the probing, evenhanded culture-war reportage of the magazine writer Jesse Singal (whom I hesitate to even praise because it will do him no favors on the internet). But that cultural moderation has no substantial political form, no important champions within the Democratic Party. It has Joe Manchin and Tulsi Gabbard, maybe, but they are eccentric figures; elsewhere among the Democrats there is little interest in considering all the different ways that cultural extremism costs them votes. Which means that if the center-left abdicates, DeLong-style, on economic policy, the Democratic Party as a whole will have moved to the left on every front, writing off not only the possibility of compromising with Republican politicians (which, for now, might be understandable) but also the possibility of winning over voters who would almost certainly be Democrats if the party still occupied the cultural terrain that it held in 2000 or even as late as 2008. Because the country as a whole has also shifted left since 2000, that kind of writing-off will not prevent the Democrats from winning elections; it probably won’t prevent them from beating Donald Trump. But it will stand in the way of any dramatic left-of-center consolidation, any kind of more-than-temporary Democratic governance. And if the center-left feels itself irrelevant in an age of socialist ambition, then taking up the task of rebuilding a cultural center, and a Democratic Party capable of claiming it, seems like the task that might actually be suited to the times. Sadly the rest of the DeLong thread didn’t take up that possibility. It degenerated, instead, into a howl against Republican fascism and a post-Protestant sermon about how liberal America can build the true and only heaven, the real shining city on the hill. Which suggests that to reckon with the possibility that making liberalism a pseudo-church might be a problem, not an aspiration, we need a very different center-left from the one surrendering today. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTOpinion) and Instagram, join the Facebook political discussion group, Voting While Female. Ross Douthat has been an Opinion columnist for The Times since 2009. He is the author of several books, most recently, “To Change the Church: Pope Francis and the Future of Catholicism.”
You can follow him on Twitter:  @DouthatNYT  You can follow him on Twitter:  @DouthatNYT Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — Attorney General William Barr said on Wednesday he would look into whether U.S. agencies illegally spied on President Donald Trump's 2016 campaign, sparking criticism from Democrats who accused him of promoting a conspiracy theory. Barr, who was appointed by Trump, is already facing criticism by congressional Democrats for how he has handled the release of Special Counsel Robert Mueller's report on the probe of Russian interference in the 2016 election, and his comments about surveillance brought more derision from Democratic senators. His testimony echoed longstanding allegations by Trump and Republican allies that seeks to cast doubt on the early days of the federal investigation in an apparent attempt to discredit Mueller, law enforcement and intelligence agencies. Earlier on Wednesday, Trump dialed up his rhetoric on the launch of the federal investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 election, describing it as "an attempted coup" and treason.  Barr told senators at a hearing on Wednesday that he felt the need to further probe how U.S. intelligence agencies conducted themselves in the Russia investigation because "spying on a political campaign is a big deal." "So you're not suggesting, though, that spying occurred?" asked Senator Jeanne Shaheen, the ranking Democrat on the Senate appropriations subcommittee.  "I think spying did occur," said Barr, the top U.S. law enforcement officer. "But the question is whether it was adequately predicated, and I am not suggesting that it wasn't adequately predicated." Barr acknowledged under sharp questioning by lawmakers that there was no evidence of wrongdoing, and later declined to elaborate on why he has concerns. Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer said in a tweet that Barr should retract his comments. "Perpetuating conspiracy theories is beneath the office of the Attorney General," Schumer wrote. "It sounds as though he thinks that the FBI is conducting some kind of a rogue investigation without the appropriate warrants. I think that's astounding coming from the attorney general," Senator Mazie Hirono, a Democrat who serves on the Senate Judiciary committee, said in an interview with Reuters. Trump on Wednesday launched an especially blistering assault on the actions of FBI officials who began the investigation into the 2016 election before Mueller was appointed in May 2017.  "It was started illegally," Trump told reporters at the White House, without citing any evidence. "Everything about it was crooked. Every single thing about it. There were dirty cops," he said. "What they did was treason."  Trump allies in Congress backed Barr over his comments. Republican Representative Jim Jordan tweeted: "Pursuing the truth! Holding people accountable! Exactly what Americans want from their Attorney General." BARR HAS MUELLER REPORT  Trump on Tuesday praised Barr for his appearance in Congress, saying he was pleased the attorney general was interested in "going back to the origins of exactly where this all started. "So hopefully that will happen," Trump said. "There is a hunger for that to happen in this country like I've never seen before." The attorney general is overseeing the release to Congress of the report by Mueller about his 22-month probe into whether members of Trump's campaign colluded with Russia during the White House race and if Trump obstructed official inquiries into the matter. Barr on Tuesday said a redacted version of the report would be released within a week. It is expected to shed light on some of the more contentious episodes of Trump's election bid and presidency, including his firing of FBI Director James Comey in 2017 and his campaign's contacts with Russians.  Democrats are pushing Barr to release the full 400-page report Mueller submitted to him on March 22, with many of them questioning whether Barr sugarcoated its findings in a letter to Congress. In the March 24 letter, Barr said Mueller's investigation did not establish that members of Trump's election campaign conspired with Russia. He also said Mueller presented evidence "on both sides" about whether Trump obstructed justice, but he did not draw a conclusion one way or the other. At the Senate Appropriations subcommittee hearing, Democratic Senator Brian Schatz pressed Barr on his use of the term "spying," which he called "unnecessarily inflammatory." Barr modified his language, saying, "I want to make sure there was no unauthorized surveillance." He was also asked if he had any evidence of wrongdoing in the course of the federal probe of whether the Trump campaign worked with Moscow to sway the election. "I have no specific evidence that I would cite right now, I do have some questions about it," Barr replied. Barr told the committee that he would review all the intelligence activities directed at Trump's 2016 campaign, and added that his review was not specifically directed at the FBI. Barr noted much of this has been done already, both in Congress and by the Justice Department inspector general, but that he will pull it all together to see if there may be "remaining questions to be addressed." Inspector General Michael Horowitz is investigating whether the FBI and Justice Department followed proper procedures when they applied for a Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act warrant to conduct surveillance on former Trump adviser Carter Page and his ties to Russia. Barr said on Tuesday that investigation was due to wrap up in May or June.   (Reporting by Sarah N. Lynch and Doina Chiacu; Additional reporting by Susan Cornwell; Writing by Lawrence Hurley; Editing by Alistair Bell and Leslie Adler)

Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — Attorney General William Barr said on Wednesday he would look into whether U.S. agencies illegally spied on President Donald Trump's 2016 campaign, sparking criticism from Democrats who accused him of promoting a conspiracy theory. Barr, who was appointed by Trump, is already facing criticism by congressional Democrats for how he has handled the release of Special Counsel Robert Mueller's report on the probe of Russian interference in the 2016 election, and his comments about surveillance brought more derision from Democratic senators. His testimony echoed longstanding allegations by Trump and Republican allies that seeks to cast doubt on the early days of the federal investigation in an apparent attempt to discredit Mueller, law enforcement and intelligence agencies. Earlier on Wednesday, Trump dialed up his rhetoric on the launch of the federal investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 election, describing it as "an attempted coup" and treason.  Barr told senators at a hearing on Wednesday that he felt the need to further probe how U.S. intelligence agencies conducted themselves in the Russia investigation because "spying on a political campaign is a big deal." "So you're not suggesting, though, that spying occurred?" asked Senator Jeanne Shaheen, the ranking Democrat on the Senate appropriations subcommittee.  "I think spying did occur," said Barr, the top U.S. law enforcement officer. "But the question is whether it was adequately predicated, and I am not suggesting that it wasn't adequately predicated." Barr acknowledged under sharp questioning by lawmakers that there was no evidence of wrongdoing, and later declined to elaborate on why he has concerns. Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer said in a tweet that Barr should retract his comments. "Perpetuating conspiracy theories is beneath the office of the Attorney General," Schumer wrote. "It sounds as though he thinks that the FBI is conducting some kind of a rogue investigation without the appropriate warrants. I think that's astounding coming from the attorney general," Senator Mazie Hirono, a Democrat who serves on the Senate Judiciary committee, said in an interview with Reuters. Trump on Wednesday launched an especially blistering assault on the actions of FBI officials who began the investigation into the 2016 election before Mueller was appointed in May 2017.  "It was started illegally," Trump told reporters at the White House, without citing any evidence. "Everything about it was crooked. Every single thing about it. There were dirty cops," he said. "What they did was treason."  Trump allies in Congress backed Barr over his comments. Republican Representative Jim Jordan tweeted: "Pursuing the truth! Holding people accountable! Exactly what Americans want from their Attorney General." BARR HAS MUELLER REPORT  Trump on Tuesday praised Barr for his appearance in Congress, saying he was pleased the attorney general was interested in "going back to the origins of exactly where this all started. "So hopefully that will happen," Trump said. "There is a hunger for that to happen in this country like I've never seen before." The attorney general is overseeing the release to Congress of the report by Mueller about his 22-month probe into whether members of Trump's campaign colluded with Russia during the White House race and if Trump obstructed official inquiries into the matter. Barr on Tuesday said a redacted version of the report would be released within a week. It is expected to shed light on some of the more contentious episodes of Trump's election bid and presidency, including his firing of FBI Director James Comey in 2017 and his campaign's contacts with Russians.  Democrats are pushing Barr to release the full 400-page report Mueller submitted to him on March 22, with many of them questioning whether Barr sugarcoated its findings in a letter to Congress. In the March 24 letter, Barr said Mueller's investigation did not establish that members of Trump's election campaign conspired with Russia. He also said Mueller presented evidence "on both sides" about whether Trump obstructed justice, but he did not draw a conclusion one way or the other. At the Senate Appropriations subcommittee hearing, Democratic Senator Brian Schatz pressed Barr on his use of the term "spying," which he called "unnecessarily inflammatory." Barr modified his language, saying, "I want to make sure there was no unauthorized surveillance." He was also asked if he had any evidence of wrongdoing in the course of the federal probe of whether the Trump campaign worked with Moscow to sway the election. "I have no specific evidence that I would cite right now, I do have some questions about it," Barr replied. Barr told the committee that he would review all the intelligence activities directed at Trump's 2016 campaign, and added that his review was not specifically directed at the FBI. Barr noted much of this has been done already, both in Congress and by the Justice Department inspector general, but that he will pull it all together to see if there may be "remaining questions to be addressed." Inspector General Michael Horowitz is investigating whether the FBI and Justice Department followed proper procedures when they applied for a Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act warrant to conduct surveillance on former Trump adviser Carter Page and his ties to Russia. Barr said on Tuesday that investigation was due to wrap up in May or June.   (Reporting by Sarah N. Lynch and Doina Chiacu; Additional reporting by Susan Cornwell; Writing by Lawrence Hurley; Editing by Alistair Bell and Leslie Adler)Supported by By Coral Davenport and Sheryl Gay Stolberg WASHINGTON — Facing a showdown vote as early as this month over the embattled “Green New Deal,” Senate Democrats are preparing a counteroffensive to make combating climate change a central issue of their 2020 campaigns — a striking shift on an issue they have shied away from for the past decade. Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, outlined the new strategy in an interview last week, casting it as a way to mobilize millennial voters, a key part of the Democratic constituency that the party will need to turn out to win in swing states. With progressives pushing Democrats to embrace the Green New Deal — and Republicans ridiculing the idea as socialism — Mr. Schumer is effectively trying to turn a weakness into a strength. He is planning daily floor speeches attacking Republicans for inaction and a proposal for a special Senate committee focused on the issue, which he intends to announce this week. And while there is virtually no chance of passing climate change legislation in a Republican-controlled Senate with President Trump in office, Mr. Schumer said he wanted legislation to run on next year — and bring to a vote in early 2021, should his party win the White House and the Senate. “This is the first time Democrats have decided to go on offense on climate change,” Mr. Schumer said in an interview in his office. Asked about a bill, though, he conceded that “it’s going to take us a little while to come up with a consensus that works.” But even one of the most ardent evangelists for climate action, former Vice President Al Gore, conceded that it could be difficult for the party to come together around actual legislation, which almost certainly would have to include a carbon tax or some way to raise the price of carbon dioxide emissions. “This is a heavy lift politically,” he said. Despite that, Democrats see fighting climate change as a winning issue on the campaign trail — a way to mobilize not only young voters but also progressives, who are increasingly talking about the environment in terms of economic and social justice, given the outsize effect pollution has on minority communities. transcript Hosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Lynsea Garrison, Clare Toeniskoetter and Lisa Tobin, and edited by Larissa Anderson The controversial proposal to combat global warming and economic inequality is transforming the political calculus around climate change. michael barbaro From The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today: From the moment it was unveiled, it has divided Democrats and given a weapon to Republicans. The promise and the peril of the Green New Deal. It’s Thursday, March 7. Coral, where does the story of the Green New Deal begin? coral davenport Well, most recently, we saw it ignite on February 7. michael barbaro Coral Davenport covers energy and the environment for The Times. coral davenport The day that Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, who has, of course, skyrocketed in celebrity, essentially, to become this iconic figure on the left, introduced — it’s called a non-binding resolution. archived recording Beautiful. archived recording (alexandria ocasio-cortez) Thank you. Thank you, senator. And thank you to all of my colleagues here that have joined us today. This is so incredible. coral davenport Where she came forward at this press conference on Capitol Hill this freezing cold day. She wore a green suit. archived recording (alexandria ocasio-cortez) And I am so incredibly excited that we are going to transition this country into the future. And we are not going to be dragged behind by our past. coral davenport And laid out this set of sweeping, incredibly ambitious proposals about how to both tackle climate change and solve social injustice all in one package. archived recording (alexandria ocasio-cortez) So thank you all very, very much. archived recording Excellent. Thank you, Alexandria. Now, I’d like — michael barbaro So how do Democrats react to this proposal from their new star freshman house colleague? archived recording (kamala harris) I am supporting the Green New Deal. coral davenport So it was amazing to see a number of the presidential candidates immediately embraced it. archived recording Does the Green New Deal go too far? archived recording (bernie sanders) No. coral davenport Bernie Sanders. archived recording (bernie sanders) You cannot go too far on the issue of climate change. The future of the planet is at stake. coral davenport Elizabeth Warren, Kirsten Gillibrand. archived recording (kirsten gillibrand) I support all the framework that the Green New Deal supports because — coral davenport Kamala Harris, Cory Booker. archived recording (cory booker) Our planet is in peril, and we need to be bold. It’s one of the reasons why I signed on to the resolution and co-sponsored the resolution for the Green New Deal. coral davenport They didn’t just embrace it. They co-sponsored it. michael barbaro Wow. coral davenport Which essentially says, we’re co-authors too. archived recording (cory booker) We need to push the bounds of human potential because that is our history. coral davenport It became clear that they could see that Representative Ocasio-Cortez had become this celebrity, had become this star, had galvanized the progressive left. And there is a tremendous eagerness, particularly on the part of the presidential candidates, to just jump right into that and harness that. They want to get that energy. And this is one of the first big policy things that she did. And so she just saw all of the — not just the progressive left, but the establishment Democrats, the more moderate Democrats, jumping on and saying, hey, this is mine too. michael barbaro So how much of that has to do with all these reports that say, basically, climate change is upon us. It’s here. It’s happening. coral davenport It has a lot to do with it. I think there are three key things that have contributed to the changing politics of climate change, Michael. One, as you said, absolutely — just in the past year or two alone, there have been major new reports that say, clearly and definitively, a lot of the extreme weather events that we are seeing now are caused by climate change. Second thing is polling shows that millennials, who will soon be the largest voting demographic — that this is an issue they care about more than almost anything else. That’s a big change. The third thing, I think, that politicians are paying attention to is President Trump. President Trump has made climate change an issue because he has elevated climate policy. He has said he’s going to withdraw the U.S. from the Paris climate agreement. He’s rolling back climate change regulations. He mocks climate science. So all of those present a clear way for his prospective opponents to carve out a strong position against him. michael barbaro So it appeared the moment was uniquely right for something like this to come along. coral davenport Yes. archived recording The Green New Deal, a six-page resolution on issues related to America’s role in global climate change — michael barbaro OK, so what is actually in the Green New Deal? coral davenport So the Green New Deal is very broad. But in terms of climate change, it says — archived recording The Green New Deal calls for reducing carbon emissions to zero and moving the U.S. off of fossil fuels in 10 years. coral davenport The entire world needs to get to zero emissions by 2050. archived recording It would meet 100 percent of the power demand through clean and renewable energy sources. coral davenport A 10-year plan to slash CO2 emissions in the United States to get to getting 100 percent of U.S. electricity from clean and renewable sources, such as wind and solar. archived recording Eliminating gas-powered engines, like cars, making air travel obsolete, retrofitting all existing buildings — coral davenport So those are the broad strokes of what it says about climate change. michael barbaro And all of them are wildly ambitious. coral davenport Those are extremely ambitious, just in terms of energy and climate policy. But it also goes way, way, way beyond that. It talks about how working to achieve these goals could create new green jobs. But it also talks about guaranteeing health care, guaranteed minimum wage, family medical leave, paid vacations and retirement security to every American. michael barbaro So it’s kind of a kitchen sink of liberal aspirations. It’s a little bit of everything. coral davenport It is a social progressive, liberal wish list, all bundled into this thing that’s supposed to be about climate change with no clear policy prescriptions on how actually to achieve any of these goals. And just to be clear, this sounds a little inside baseball, but it’s important to note this whole sweeping proposal is also not even a bill. michael barbaro What is it? coral davenport It is a non-binding resolution, which is about the weakest thing that you can bring up in Congress. It is a statement of what you want, of what you would like to have. So if it were to ever pass, it would do nothing. It would be Congress saying — michael barbaro This is what we wish for. coral davenport Yeah. michael barbaro Got it. So it’s a kind of manifesto, more than anything. coral davenport That’s a good way of putting it, yes. michael barbaro So given that, what is the point of this? What is the point of the Green New Deal? coral davenport At this point, it seems that it’s really just about trying to get the party to come together with one voice and say, we care about this. These are the goals that we have as a party — which, for this particular party, which has often been fractured and divided, is not necessarily a small thing. michael barbaro So what happens next? coral davenport So soon after this resolution gets introduced, things start falling apart. The first thing that happened was there was a huge logistical scrub. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez’s office had sent out this sheet of talking points about what was in the package. Unfortunately, some of the things that were in the talking points actually weren’t in the package, including, for example, a guaranteed right to work for those unable or unwilling to work. And within days, you had Republicans saying, this is the best thing that’s ever happened. This is rife with targets for us. archived recording The only thing green about the so-called Green New Deal is how much green it’s going to cost taxpayers if these people ever pass it into law. archived recording (speaker 1) You know, it was “yes we can,” but I’m wondering if now, it’s “yes we can become a socialist country.” And I know — archived recording (speaker 2) Yeah, that’s right. This is actually not about green energy. This is really about socialism. This is nothing more than a socialist Trojan horse. That’s why they — michael barbaro Because the impression that’s left is that Democratic presidential candidates have signed on to something that seems to support paying people who are unwilling to work, which feels like, essentially, catnip to Fox News — to anyone in the conservative Republican world. coral davenport Absolutely. And Democrats are put on the defensive saying, no, no, no, I supported the bill, but I don’t support this other thing that’s a description of the bill. That’s a terrible position for them to be in. And of course, immediately, it created a backlash, not so much to climate change, but to this particular proposal. archived recording (donald trump) But they should stay with that argument. Never change. No planes, no energy — when the wind stops blowing, that’s the end of your electric. Let’s hurry — darling, is the wind blowing today? I’d like to watch television, darling. michael barbaro And what happens with moderate Democrats? How are they responding to this proposal? So some of them started backtracking and saying, well, we will also be unveiling our own climate proposals in the campaigns. So it will be different from this. So I think a lot of Democrats are saying, wait a minute, let’s find our own proposal that maybe is not quite this thing. And then it blew up even more when — archived recording (speaker 1) What are we doing here? archived recording (speaker 2) We’re standing at — we’re asking for the New Green Deal — archived recording (speaker 3) And we’re trying to present this letter that we’ve made to Senator Feinstein. coral davenport We saw these supporters of the Green New Deal confronted Senator Dianne Feinstein, the Democrat of California, one of the older members of the Senate, very much an establishment figure, someone who’s always been considered a reliable yes vote on environmental issues, and — archived recording (speaker 1) Did you guys all skip school? archived recording (speaker 2) Yeah. coral davenport A group of student activists confronted her in the halls of the Senate. archived recording Promote the Green New Deal. archived recording (dianne feinstein) Well, there are reasons why I can’t, because there’s no way to pay for it. archived recording (speaker 1) Yes, there is. archived recording (speaker 2) Yes, there is. That’s not true. [INTERPOSING VOICES] archived recording We have tons of money going to the military. Half of our — a lot ours is going to the military. coral davenport And Senator Feinstein kind of schooled them a little bit. archived recording (dianne feinstein) And you just can’t go in and say, O.K., we’re going to take hundreds of millions from here and hundreds of millions from there. It just doesn’t work that way. archived recording But of course, our — coral davenport She was very realistic and pragmatic, but they flared right back up at her and said — archived recording But we have to come to a point where our earth is dying, literally. And it is going to be a pricey and ambitious plan that is needed to deal with the magnitude of that issue. coral davenport This does not represent what they want and what they need and what this generation needs at this time. archived recording Because that is the only way — archived recording (dianne feinstein) That resolution will not pass the Senate, and you can take that back to whoever sent you here and tell them. archived recording Why do think it won’t pass? archived recording (dianne feinstein) Because it doesn’t have a single Republican vote. archived recording But why does that stop you from voting yes? Because even if they vote — you can still vote yes, and it won’t pass, and we can draft a new plan. archived recording (dianne feinstein) Well, I may do that. We’ll see. [INTERPOSING VOICES] archived recording Please vote yes. coral davenport And it was this very dramatic moment that seemed to pit generation against generation. archived recording Senator, if this doesn’t get turned around in 10 years, you’re looking at the faces of the people who are going to be living with these consequences. [INTERPOSING VOICES] The government is supposed to be for the people and by the people and all for the people. archived recording (dianne feinstein) You know what’s interesting about this group is I’ve been doing this for 30 years. I know what I’m doing. You come in here, and you say it has to be my way or the highway. I don’t respond to that. coral davenport And the moment went viral. It looked bad for Senator Feinstein. archived recording I hear what you’re saying, but we’re the people who voted you. You’re supposed to listen to us. That’s your job. archived recording (dianne feinstein) How old are you? archived recording I’m 16. I can’t vote. archived recording (dianne feinstein) Well, you didn’t vote for me. [INTERPOSING VOICES] archived recording It doesn’t matter. We’re going to be the ones who are impacted. archived recording (dianne feinstein) I understand that. [INTERPOSING VOICES] I have seven grandchildren. archived recording — regardless of whether they voted for you or not. archived recording (dianne feinstein) I understand it very well. archived recording Senator, the — coral davenport Even though what she was telling them was the truth — this proposal, this resolution, has no chance of passage. It’s not realistic legislation. It won’t have bipartisan support. It doesn’t make sense to put your back into something that’s never going to turn into legislation that will be enacted. But that practical message was not resonating with these passionate student protesters. michael barbaro Right, it looks like a politician a bit callously telling young, idealistic kids, no, I will not protect the Earth in a way that you want me to. coral davenport That’s how it came across. archived recording Senator, we know that no plan is going to pass right now while the Republicans control the Senate. This is a long game. We need to be doing this to unite the Democratic Party. I don’t know if you’ve noticed, but voters haven’t been particularly energized the last couple of years. We need something to fight for. Your constituents are asking you for this. And I really believe, and tens of thousands, millions — coral davenport And this is at a moment where the political strategists in the party are looking at this and saying, those are the kids whose votes we need. What are we going to do about this? We don’t want them to be turned off by us in this way. archived recording (dianne feinstein) I understand all of this. And I’m trying to do the best I can, which was to write a responsible resolution. archived recording (speaker 1) Any plan that doesn’t take bold transformative action is not going to be what we need. archived recording (speaker 2) We need your leadership. archived recording (dianne feinstein) Well, you know better than I do. So I think one day, you should run for the Senate. archived recording (speaker 1) Great, I will. [INTERPOSING VOICES] archived recording (dianne feinstein) And then you do it your way. [INTERPOSING VOICES] In the meantime — archived recording (speaker 3) By that time, there’s going to be a big problem. archived recording (speaker 4) We have a letter for you. archived recording (dianne feinstein) I just won a big election. archived recording (speaker 5) Yeah, that was the point of coming up to — coral davenport So all this happens. Democrats are trying to figure out what are we going to do here. And Senator Mitch McConnell — archived recording (mitch mcconnell) Now, Mr. President, on another matter. coral davenport — the Republican majority leader, who is a very smart, very savvy political operator — archived recording (mitch mcconnell) Our nation has watched the Democratic Party take a sharp and abrupt left turn toward socialism. coral davenport — basically seems to smell blood in the water, and stepped up and said, hey, why don’t we just have a vote on this Green New Deal? And then all the Democrats can be on the record showing what they think of it. archived recording (mitch mcconnell) And nothing encapsulates this as clearly as the huge, self-inflicted national wound the Democrats are agitating for called the Green New Deal. michael barbaro So he spots the division — coral davenport Absolutely. michael barbaro — sees the messiness, and says, what a great time to force the entire party to have to say, I want this, or I don’t want this. coral davenport Absolutely. And that was the real sign that the whole thing had fallen apart and was coming unraveled, when it had truly turned into a weapon of the right. archived recording (mitch mcconnell) Let’s review a few of the greatest hits in this particular proposal. Democrats have decided every building in America needs to be either overhauled or replaced altogether. Forget about coal and all the jobs it supports in my state of Kentucky and around the country. Cars, lawnmowers, commercial airliners — everything must go. Everything must go. And by the way, all this and more, Mr. President, can be ours for the low, low price of a staggering expansion of centralized government and, wait for it, upwards of a mere $93 trillion. What a great idea. [MUSIC] coral davenport And at this point now, Senator Chuck Schumer, the Democratic leader in the Senate, has advised his caucus not to vote for or against it — simply to vote “present” when it comes up on the floor. And keep in mind, on the other side of the House, where Democrats have the majority, Nancy Pelosi has absolutely no intention of bringing this to the floor, because she knows it’s a problematic vote. And in fact, when she was asked about it early on, she stumbled over its name. She seemed to be very dismissive of it. She does not seem to take it seriously. michael barbaro So you know you have a problem when the Republicans are eager to put a Democratic resolution on the floor of the Congress, and the Democrats are trying to avoid having their resolution put on the floor of the Congress. coral davenport That is a clear sign, when the opposing party can’t wait to take the thing and force you to vote on it — then yeah, things are not going well. michael barbaro Right. [MUSIC] archived recording (mitch mcconnell) The proposal is so lacking in details and math that it’s almost impossible for analysts to even know where to begin trying to connect it to the real world. So Mr. President, like any good socialist plan, I’m sure we’d hear a lot about soaking the rich. michael barbaro So Coral, where does this story pick back up? coral davenport So Senator Schumer, after getting a giant Green New Deal headache, on Wednesday morning goes on the Senate floor and starts talking about it. archived recording (chuck schumer) Now, Mr. President, maybe Leader McConnell doesn’t realize this, but because of the political stunt vote he’s planning on his version of Green New Deal, for the first time in a long time, the Senate is finally debating the issue of climate change. And it’s about time, if you ask me. coral davenport But he uses it as a moment to pivot and talk about several other new proposals. archived recording (chuck schumer) I understand my friends on the other side of the aisle don’t like the Green New Deal. O.K., that’s fine. What’s your plan? Maybe a lot of members think they can get away without having to answer the question. They won’t. They won’t. And that’s why we need a committee focused on this. coral davenport One is creation of a new Senate committee to deal with climate change. archived recording (chuck schumer) I will introduce a resolution to create a new committee on climate. Democrats believe this is an issue of surpassing importance. What do our Republican colleagues believe? We hope sincerely that our Republican friends will come around and view it the same way. michael barbaro And Coral, what’s going on exactly? What is Schumer doing here by suddenly talking about the Green New Deal and talking about the environment in such a formal, high-profile way? coral davenport Schumer is a politician, and so he sees that there is all of this millennial energy around the Green New Deal and around climate change. And he’s looking at the fact that people are asking questions about this when candidates go out to town halls in a way that they never have. So he wants to harness all this energy. He wants to make sure that millennials who care about climate change are still excited about Democrats and don’t think that these are fogies of yesteryear. But he wants to find a way to pivot away from the Green New Deal and come up, essentially, with a real piece of legislation that would be, probably, a lot more realistic and something that candidates could live with and that could be brought up on the Senate floor after an election. michael barbaro So not have climate change associated with universal health care — coral davenport Right. michael barbaro — or the possibility of paying people who aren’t working, but have it become part of the Democratic Party platform in a way that he feels is in line with where the party’s politics are. coral davenport Right. archived recording (chuck schumer) Because climate change will not wait for the partisanship that so often defines this chamber to ebb, it will not pause while one party’s in power. Its impacts will not discriminate between red states and blue states. It’s time to put our party affiliations aside and agree that we face a major crisis caused by humans, and we have an immediate and glaring need to address it. michael barbaro And when I think of Schumer, I think of the embodiment of the party’s middle. coral davenport Totally. michael barbaro A figure who is not a far-left figure. And so I wonder what it signals that he’s the one out there embracing this as the future of the party. coral davenport That is the thing that I thought was the craziest of all. He has never elevated this. He’s never talked about it. He’s never pushed on it, because it’s never been seen as a vote-getter. So to all of a sudden see Chuck Schumer go out on the floor and talk like he’s a climate evangelist is amazing. To be fair to Schumer, he said he’s a new grandfather, too. So he cares about his grandchild. But I do think he is also looking at these polls, and looking at this Feinstein video that went viral, and freaking out a little bit and thinking, well, we’ve got to strategize for the next elections. michael barbaro So Coral, what do we make of this? First, the Green New Deal is the hot new thing. Then it is the hot potato. But somehow it landed with Schumer standing on the Senate floor, talking about climate change in this new, powerful way for him. coral davenport Yeah, so at the end of the day, I’m very skeptical that the actual Green New Deal is going to be passed or put into effect. But this sudden skyrocketing to fame of the Green New Deal and Representative Ocasio-Cortez, and the rallying of the millennials, and even the pushback, even the fallout — it showed the Democratic Party leaders, even as middle-of-the-road political pragmatists, that there is a new energy and interest from a key demographic of voter that they care about. That was the effect of this whole Green New Deal roller coaster. And the outcome is we’re in new territory. I never thought I would write the sentence that Chuck Schumer wants to elevate the issue of climate change for campaigns, ever. michael barbaro So actually, you could argue that this resolution that seemed like a political fiasco in the beginning — it actually kind of worked. It injected this issue into the Democratic Party’s bloodstream, just as people like Ocasio-Cortez and liberals, perhaps, intended. coral davenport Even if nothing that the Green New Deal calls for actually comes to pass, it has changed the conversation. It has changed the political calculus. And it has helped bring the issue of climate change into the top tier of political campaigns, a place it’s never been. michael barbaro Coral, thank you very much. We appreciate it. coral davenport Thank you. [MUSIC] Climate change has for the first time emerged as a front-and-center issue in national political campaigns. On Friday, Washington’s governor, Jay Inslee, announced that he would campaign for president on the signature issue of fighting climate change. Other Democratic presidential candidates regularly make campaign speeches about the subject, and most initially rushed to back the Green New Deal, the liberal social policy proposal made famous by its author, Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York. Students around the world are “striking” from school this spring to demand action. But the rise of climate change as a rallying cry has come with huge downsides for Democrats. The ambitions of its youthful advocates have clashed with the caution of Democratic veterans, memorably caught in a viral video of middle and high schoolers confronting Senator Dianne Feinstein of California. And in a speech to conservative activists on Saturday, President Trump appeared to salivate at the chance to confront Democrats on the issue. “I encourage it,” he mockingly said of the Green New Deal. “I think it’s really something that they should promote.” Republicans see a political advantage in tying Democrats to the most contentious Democratic proposals, like linking climate change policy to universal employment. Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, plans to put the Green New Deal to a vote, without a single hearing or legislative language, as a way of daring Senate Democrats, especially those running for president, to go on record in favor of it. “Whether or not they agree with everything in the Green New Deal, they are going to be lumped into what that proposal was,” said Antonia Ferrier, a Republican strategist and former top aide to Mr. McConnell. “To be charitable to them, they care about this issue and think it’s important. But they also do run a risk of alienating a lot of independent-minded voters in some of those states that Hillary Clinton lost in 2016.” Democrats have been skittish about embracing the “green activist” label at least since 2000, when Mr. Gore lost his bid for the White House. Their unease worsened in 2010, when President Barack Obama’s effort to push a climate change bill through Congress crashed in the Democratic Senate and helped sink the careers of some Democrats who voted for it. “Climate change, to our frustration, was never an issue that rung a bell with voters, particularly in the throes of coming out of an economic crisis,” said David Axelrod, the former chief political strategist to Mr. Obama. “But now we’re a decade down the road, and the road is surrounded by floods and fires in a way that is becoming more and more visible.” Polls show that millennial voters, the largest voting demographic, consistently rank climate change as an issue of top concern — something older generations never did. A 2018 poll by the Pew Research Center found that millennials are the only generation in which a strong majority — 65 percent — says both that there is solid evidence of global warming and that this is attributable primarily to human activity. Mr. Schumer said that he believed voters now saw climate change as an issue that affected them in their daily lives, as scientific reports link climate change to damaging extreme weather, such as stronger storms, flooding and drought. He pointed to “the energy of the young people” on the issue and added, “We want to take that energy and channel it into something more constructive.” Celinda Lake, a Democratic strategist, said that if Democrats talked about the issue correctly — using phrases like “transitioning to green energy,” rather than the more polarizing “climate change” — they could win over Trump voters, who associate words like “transition” and “energy” with jobs. “Trump’s weakest issue is the environment,” Ms. Lake said. “As a Democrat, you’re mobilizing our side, you’re cross-pressuring his voters and you’re talking about the economy and the environment at the same time.” But Democrats are likely to run into trouble when it comes time to propose serious policy solutions. Already, supporters of the Green New Deal have been met with criticism that the proposal is chiefly a set of broad-strokes outlines, rather than concrete legislative language. The Green New Deal immediately won the embrace of multiple Democratic presidential candidates, including Senators Kamala Harris of California, Kirsten Gillibrand of New York, Cory Booker of New Jersey, Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota, and Bernie Sanders, independent of Vermont. But it was also hit by a backlash, as Ms. Ocasio-Cortez’s website mistakenly published a draft summary of the document that included contentious provisions not endorsed by those candidates, like language that called for economic security “for all who are unable or unwilling to work.” Other Democrats shied away, including Ms. Feinstein, who told the group of student protesters, “there’s no way to pay for it,” and “it wouldn’t pass the Senate.” Mr. Schumer called the episode “a little hiccup, nothing more.” Republicans saw an opportunity. “Do our Democratic colleagues really support this fantasy novel masquerading as public policy?” Mr. McConnell asked last week on the Senate floor, discussing his plan for the coming vote. “Do they really want to completely upend Americans’ lives to enact some grand socialist vision?” Mr. Schumer’s plan to protect Democrats from going on the record in support of the Green New Deal is to have all members of his caucus simply vote “present” when Mr. McConnell brings the proposal to the Senate floor. Mr. Schumer said he would then counter with a more detailed policy solution, but that may prove just as risky. Such a solution to climate change is the same as it was in 2010, when Mr. Obama failed to pass a bill that required polluters to pay for their carbon emissions. Policy experts say the solution to climate change is still to put a price — ideally, a tax — on carbon dioxide emissions from fossil fuels, essentially creating an energy tax that would raise the price of gasoline and electricity generated from fossil fuels. That idea is likely to remain a tough sell with many voters, even as it energizes the liberal left wing of the Democratic Party. Veterans of the 2010 debacle say the political risk will not be as great as it was then. “There has been a lot of change since then,” said Rick Boucher, a former Democratic congressman from a coal-rich quarter of southwest Virginia, whose constituents voted him out of office for backing the Obama-era climate change bill. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.    

Supported by By Coral Davenport and Sheryl Gay Stolberg WASHINGTON — Facing a showdown vote as early as this month over the embattled “Green New Deal,” Senate Democrats are preparing a counteroffensive to make combating climate change a central issue of their 2020 campaigns — a striking shift on an issue they have shied away from for the past decade. Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, outlined the new strategy in an interview last week, casting it as a way to mobilize millennial voters, a key part of the Democratic constituency that the party will need to turn out to win in swing states. With progressives pushing Democrats to embrace the Green New Deal — and Republicans ridiculing the idea as socialism — Mr. Schumer is effectively trying to turn a weakness into a strength. He is planning daily floor speeches attacking Republicans for inaction and a proposal for a special Senate committee focused on the issue, which he intends to announce this week. And while there is virtually no chance of passing climate change legislation in a Republican-controlled Senate with President Trump in office, Mr. Schumer said he wanted legislation to run on next year — and bring to a vote in early 2021, should his party win the White House and the Senate. “This is the first time Democrats have decided to go on offense on climate change,” Mr. Schumer said in an interview in his office. Asked about a bill, though, he conceded that “it’s going to take us a little while to come up with a consensus that works.” But even one of the most ardent evangelists for climate action, former Vice President Al Gore, conceded that it could be difficult for the party to come together around actual legislation, which almost certainly would have to include a carbon tax or some way to raise the price of carbon dioxide emissions. “This is a heavy lift politically,” he said. Despite that, Democrats see fighting climate change as a winning issue on the campaign trail — a way to mobilize not only young voters but also progressives, who are increasingly talking about the environment in terms of economic and social justice, given the outsize effect pollution has on minority communities. transcript Hosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Lynsea Garrison, Clare Toeniskoetter and Lisa Tobin, and edited by Larissa Anderson The controversial proposal to combat global warming and economic inequality is transforming the political calculus around climate change. michael barbaro From The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today: From the moment it was unveiled, it has divided Democrats and given a weapon to Republicans. The promise and the peril of the Green New Deal. It’s Thursday, March 7. Coral, where does the story of the Green New Deal begin? coral davenport Well, most recently, we saw it ignite on February 7. michael barbaro Coral Davenport covers energy and the environment for The Times. coral davenport The day that Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, who has, of course, skyrocketed in celebrity, essentially, to become this iconic figure on the left, introduced — it’s called a non-binding resolution. archived recording Beautiful. archived recording (alexandria ocasio-cortez) Thank you. Thank you, senator. And thank you to all of my colleagues here that have joined us today. This is so incredible. coral davenport Where she came forward at this press conference on Capitol Hill this freezing cold day. She wore a green suit. archived recording (alexandria ocasio-cortez) And I am so incredibly excited that we are going to transition this country into the future. And we are not going to be dragged behind by our past. coral davenport And laid out this set of sweeping, incredibly ambitious proposals about how to both tackle climate change and solve social injustice all in one package. archived recording (alexandria ocasio-cortez) So thank you all very, very much. archived recording Excellent. Thank you, Alexandria. Now, I’d like — michael barbaro So how do Democrats react to this proposal from their new star freshman house colleague? archived recording (kamala harris) I am supporting the Green New Deal. coral davenport So it was amazing to see a number of the presidential candidates immediately embraced it. archived recording Does the Green New Deal go too far? archived recording (bernie sanders) No. coral davenport Bernie Sanders. archived recording (bernie sanders) You cannot go too far on the issue of climate change. The future of the planet is at stake. coral davenport Elizabeth Warren, Kirsten Gillibrand. archived recording (kirsten gillibrand) I support all the framework that the Green New Deal supports because — coral davenport Kamala Harris, Cory Booker. archived recording (cory booker) Our planet is in peril, and we need to be bold. It’s one of the reasons why I signed on to the resolution and co-sponsored the resolution for the Green New Deal. coral davenport They didn’t just embrace it. They co-sponsored it. michael barbaro Wow. coral davenport Which essentially says, we’re co-authors too. archived recording (cory booker) We need to push the bounds of human potential because that is our history. coral davenport It became clear that they could see that Representative Ocasio-Cortez had become this celebrity, had become this star, had galvanized the progressive left. And there is a tremendous eagerness, particularly on the part of the presidential candidates, to just jump right into that and harness that. They want to get that energy. And this is one of the first big policy things that she did. And so she just saw all of the — not just the progressive left, but the establishment Democrats, the more moderate Democrats, jumping on and saying, hey, this is mine too. michael barbaro So how much of that has to do with all these reports that say, basically, climate change is upon us. It’s here. It’s happening. coral davenport It has a lot to do with it. I think there are three key things that have contributed to the changing politics of climate change, Michael. One, as you said, absolutely — just in the past year or two alone, there have been major new reports that say, clearly and definitively, a lot of the extreme weather events that we are seeing now are caused by climate change. Second thing is polling shows that millennials, who will soon be the largest voting demographic — that this is an issue they care about more than almost anything else. That’s a big change. The third thing, I think, that politicians are paying attention to is President Trump. President Trump has made climate change an issue because he has elevated climate policy. He has said he’s going to withdraw the U.S. from the Paris climate agreement. He’s rolling back climate change regulations. He mocks climate science. So all of those present a clear way for his prospective opponents to carve out a strong position against him. michael barbaro So it appeared the moment was uniquely right for something like this to come along. coral davenport Yes. archived recording The Green New Deal, a six-page resolution on issues related to America’s role in global climate change — michael barbaro OK, so what is actually in the Green New Deal? coral davenport So the Green New Deal is very broad. But in terms of climate change, it says — archived recording The Green New Deal calls for reducing carbon emissions to zero and moving the U.S. off of fossil fuels in 10 years. coral davenport The entire world needs to get to zero emissions by 2050. archived recording It would meet 100 percent of the power demand through clean and renewable energy sources. coral davenport A 10-year plan to slash CO2 emissions in the United States to get to getting 100 percent of U.S. electricity from clean and renewable sources, such as wind and solar. archived recording Eliminating gas-powered engines, like cars, making air travel obsolete, retrofitting all existing buildings — coral davenport So those are the broad strokes of what it says about climate change. michael barbaro And all of them are wildly ambitious. coral davenport Those are extremely ambitious, just in terms of energy and climate policy. But it also goes way, way, way beyond that. It talks about how working to achieve these goals could create new green jobs. But it also talks about guaranteeing health care, guaranteed minimum wage, family medical leave, paid vacations and retirement security to every American. michael barbaro So it’s kind of a kitchen sink of liberal aspirations. It’s a little bit of everything. coral davenport It is a social progressive, liberal wish list, all bundled into this thing that’s supposed to be about climate change with no clear policy prescriptions on how actually to achieve any of these goals. And just to be clear, this sounds a little inside baseball, but it’s important to note this whole sweeping proposal is also not even a bill. michael barbaro What is it? coral davenport It is a non-binding resolution, which is about the weakest thing that you can bring up in Congress. It is a statement of what you want, of what you would like to have. So if it were to ever pass, it would do nothing. It would be Congress saying — michael barbaro This is what we wish for. coral davenport Yeah. michael barbaro Got it. So it’s a kind of manifesto, more than anything. coral davenport That’s a good way of putting it, yes. michael barbaro So given that, what is the point of this? What is the point of the Green New Deal? coral davenport At this point, it seems that it’s really just about trying to get the party to come together with one voice and say, we care about this. These are the goals that we have as a party — which, for this particular party, which has often been fractured and divided, is not necessarily a small thing. michael barbaro So what happens next? coral davenport So soon after this resolution gets introduced, things start falling apart. The first thing that happened was there was a huge logistical scrub. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez’s office had sent out this sheet of talking points about what was in the package. Unfortunately, some of the things that were in the talking points actually weren’t in the package, including, for example, a guaranteed right to work for those unable or unwilling to work. And within days, you had Republicans saying, this is the best thing that’s ever happened. This is rife with targets for us. archived recording The only thing green about the so-called Green New Deal is how much green it’s going to cost taxpayers if these people ever pass it into law. archived recording (speaker 1) You know, it was “yes we can,” but I’m wondering if now, it’s “yes we can become a socialist country.” And I know — archived recording (speaker 2) Yeah, that’s right. This is actually not about green energy. This is really about socialism. This is nothing more than a socialist Trojan horse. That’s why they — michael barbaro Because the impression that’s left is that Democratic presidential candidates have signed on to something that seems to support paying people who are unwilling to work, which feels like, essentially, catnip to Fox News — to anyone in the conservative Republican world. coral davenport Absolutely. And Democrats are put on the defensive saying, no, no, no, I supported the bill, but I don’t support this other thing that’s a description of the bill. That’s a terrible position for them to be in. And of course, immediately, it created a backlash, not so much to climate change, but to this particular proposal. archived recording (donald trump) But they should stay with that argument. Never change. No planes, no energy — when the wind stops blowing, that’s the end of your electric. Let’s hurry — darling, is the wind blowing today? I’d like to watch television, darling. michael barbaro And what happens with moderate Democrats? How are they responding to this proposal? So some of them started backtracking and saying, well, we will also be unveiling our own climate proposals in the campaigns. So it will be different from this. So I think a lot of Democrats are saying, wait a minute, let’s find our own proposal that maybe is not quite this thing. And then it blew up even more when — archived recording (speaker 1) What are we doing here? archived recording (speaker 2) We’re standing at — we’re asking for the New Green Deal — archived recording (speaker 3) And we’re trying to present this letter that we’ve made to Senator Feinstein. coral davenport We saw these supporters of the Green New Deal confronted Senator Dianne Feinstein, the Democrat of California, one of the older members of the Senate, very much an establishment figure, someone who’s always been considered a reliable yes vote on environmental issues, and — archived recording (speaker 1) Did you guys all skip school? archived recording (speaker 2) Yeah. coral davenport A group of student activists confronted her in the halls of the Senate. archived recording Promote the Green New Deal. archived recording (dianne feinstein) Well, there are reasons why I can’t, because there’s no way to pay for it. archived recording (speaker 1) Yes, there is. archived recording (speaker 2) Yes, there is. That’s not true. [INTERPOSING VOICES] archived recording We have tons of money going to the military. Half of our — a lot ours is going to the military. coral davenport And Senator Feinstein kind of schooled them a little bit. archived recording (dianne feinstein) And you just can’t go in and say, O.K., we’re going to take hundreds of millions from here and hundreds of millions from there. It just doesn’t work that way. archived recording But of course, our — coral davenport She was very realistic and pragmatic, but they flared right back up at her and said — archived recording But we have to come to a point where our earth is dying, literally. And it is going to be a pricey and ambitious plan that is needed to deal with the magnitude of that issue. coral davenport This does not represent what they want and what they need and what this generation needs at this time. archived recording Because that is the only way — archived recording (dianne feinstein) That resolution will not pass the Senate, and you can take that back to whoever sent you here and tell them. archived recording Why do think it won’t pass? archived recording (dianne feinstein) Because it doesn’t have a single Republican vote. archived recording But why does that stop you from voting yes? Because even if they vote — you can still vote yes, and it won’t pass, and we can draft a new plan. archived recording (dianne feinstein) Well, I may do that. We’ll see. [INTERPOSING VOICES] archived recording Please vote yes. coral davenport And it was this very dramatic moment that seemed to pit generation against generation. archived recording Senator, if this doesn’t get turned around in 10 years, you’re looking at the faces of the people who are going to be living with these consequences. [INTERPOSING VOICES] The government is supposed to be for the people and by the people and all for the people. archived recording (dianne feinstein) You know what’s interesting about this group is I’ve been doing this for 30 years. I know what I’m doing. You come in here, and you say it has to be my way or the highway. I don’t respond to that. coral davenport And the moment went viral. It looked bad for Senator Feinstein. archived recording I hear what you’re saying, but we’re the people who voted you. You’re supposed to listen to us. That’s your job. archived recording (dianne feinstein) How old are you? archived recording I’m 16. I can’t vote. archived recording (dianne feinstein) Well, you didn’t vote for me. [INTERPOSING VOICES] archived recording It doesn’t matter. We’re going to be the ones who are impacted. archived recording (dianne feinstein) I understand that. [INTERPOSING VOICES] I have seven grandchildren. archived recording — regardless of whether they voted for you or not. archived recording (dianne feinstein) I understand it very well. archived recording Senator, the — coral davenport Even though what she was telling them was the truth — this proposal, this resolution, has no chance of passage. It’s not realistic legislation. It won’t have bipartisan support. It doesn’t make sense to put your back into something that’s never going to turn into legislation that will be enacted. But that practical message was not resonating with these passionate student protesters. michael barbaro Right, it looks like a politician a bit callously telling young, idealistic kids, no, I will not protect the Earth in a way that you want me to. coral davenport That’s how it came across. archived recording Senator, we know that no plan is going to pass right now while the Republicans control the Senate. This is a long game. We need to be doing this to unite the Democratic Party. I don’t know if you’ve noticed, but voters haven’t been particularly energized the last couple of years. We need something to fight for. Your constituents are asking you for this. And I really believe, and tens of thousands, millions — coral davenport And this is at a moment where the political strategists in the party are looking at this and saying, those are the kids whose votes we need. What are we going to do about this? We don’t want them to be turned off by us in this way. archived recording (dianne feinstein) I understand all of this. And I’m trying to do the best I can, which was to write a responsible resolution. archived recording (speaker 1) Any plan that doesn’t take bold transformative action is not going to be what we need. archived recording (speaker 2) We need your leadership. archived recording (dianne feinstein) Well, you know better than I do. So I think one day, you should run for the Senate. archived recording (speaker 1) Great, I will. [INTERPOSING VOICES] archived recording (dianne feinstein) And then you do it your way. [INTERPOSING VOICES] In the meantime — archived recording (speaker 3) By that time, there’s going to be a big problem. archived recording (speaker 4) We have a letter for you. archived recording (dianne feinstein) I just won a big election. archived recording (speaker 5) Yeah, that was the point of coming up to — coral davenport So all this happens. Democrats are trying to figure out what are we going to do here. And Senator Mitch McConnell — archived recording (mitch mcconnell) Now, Mr. President, on another matter. coral davenport — the Republican majority leader, who is a very smart, very savvy political operator — archived recording (mitch mcconnell) Our nation has watched the Democratic Party take a sharp and abrupt left turn toward socialism. coral davenport — basically seems to smell blood in the water, and stepped up and said, hey, why don’t we just have a vote on this Green New Deal? And then all the Democrats can be on the record showing what they think of it. archived recording (mitch mcconnell) And nothing encapsulates this as clearly as the huge, self-inflicted national wound the Democrats are agitating for called the Green New Deal. michael barbaro So he spots the division — coral davenport Absolutely. michael barbaro — sees the messiness, and says, what a great time to force the entire party to have to say, I want this, or I don’t want this. coral davenport Absolutely. And that was the real sign that the whole thing had fallen apart and was coming unraveled, when it had truly turned into a weapon of the right. archived recording (mitch mcconnell) Let’s review a few of the greatest hits in this particular proposal. Democrats have decided every building in America needs to be either overhauled or replaced altogether. Forget about coal and all the jobs it supports in my state of Kentucky and around the country. Cars, lawnmowers, commercial airliners — everything must go. Everything must go. And by the way, all this and more, Mr. President, can be ours for the low, low price of a staggering expansion of centralized government and, wait for it, upwards of a mere $93 trillion. What a great idea. [MUSIC] coral davenport And at this point now, Senator Chuck Schumer, the Democratic leader in the Senate, has advised his caucus not to vote for or against it — simply to vote “present” when it comes up on the floor. And keep in mind, on the other side of the House, where Democrats have the majority, Nancy Pelosi has absolutely no intention of bringing this to the floor, because she knows it’s a problematic vote. And in fact, when she was asked about it early on, she stumbled over its name. She seemed to be very dismissive of it. She does not seem to take it seriously. michael barbaro So you know you have a problem when the Republicans are eager to put a Democratic resolution on the floor of the Congress, and the Democrats are trying to avoid having their resolution put on the floor of the Congress. coral davenport That is a clear sign, when the opposing party can’t wait to take the thing and force you to vote on it — then yeah, things are not going well. michael barbaro Right. [MUSIC] archived recording (mitch mcconnell) The proposal is so lacking in details and math that it’s almost impossible for analysts to even know where to begin trying to connect it to the real world. So Mr. President, like any good socialist plan, I’m sure we’d hear a lot about soaking the rich. michael barbaro So Coral, where does this story pick back up? coral davenport So Senator Schumer, after getting a giant Green New Deal headache, on Wednesday morning goes on the Senate floor and starts talking about it. archived recording (chuck schumer) Now, Mr. President, maybe Leader McConnell doesn’t realize this, but because of the political stunt vote he’s planning on his version of Green New Deal, for the first time in a long time, the Senate is finally debating the issue of climate change. And it’s about time, if you ask me. coral davenport But he uses it as a moment to pivot and talk about several other new proposals. archived recording (chuck schumer) I understand my friends on the other side of the aisle don’t like the Green New Deal. O.K., that’s fine. What’s your plan? Maybe a lot of members think they can get away without having to answer the question. They won’t. They won’t. And that’s why we need a committee focused on this. coral davenport One is creation of a new Senate committee to deal with climate change. archived recording (chuck schumer) I will introduce a resolution to create a new committee on climate. Democrats believe this is an issue of surpassing importance. What do our Republican colleagues believe? We hope sincerely that our Republican friends will come around and view it the same way. michael barbaro And Coral, what’s going on exactly? What is Schumer doing here by suddenly talking about the Green New Deal and talking about the environment in such a formal, high-profile way? coral davenport Schumer is a politician, and so he sees that there is all of this millennial energy around the Green New Deal and around climate change. And he’s looking at the fact that people are asking questions about this when candidates go out to town halls in a way that they never have. So he wants to harness all this energy. He wants to make sure that millennials who care about climate change are still excited about Democrats and don’t think that these are fogies of yesteryear. But he wants to find a way to pivot away from the Green New Deal and come up, essentially, with a real piece of legislation that would be, probably, a lot more realistic and something that candidates could live with and that could be brought up on the Senate floor after an election. michael barbaro So not have climate change associated with universal health care — coral davenport Right. michael barbaro — or the possibility of paying people who aren’t working, but have it become part of the Democratic Party platform in a way that he feels is in line with where the party’s politics are. coral davenport Right. archived recording (chuck schumer) Because climate change will not wait for the partisanship that so often defines this chamber to ebb, it will not pause while one party’s in power. Its impacts will not discriminate between red states and blue states. It’s time to put our party affiliations aside and agree that we face a major crisis caused by humans, and we have an immediate and glaring need to address it. michael barbaro And when I think of Schumer, I think of the embodiment of the party’s middle. coral davenport Totally. michael barbaro A figure who is not a far-left figure. And so I wonder what it signals that he’s the one out there embracing this as the future of the party. coral davenport That is the thing that I thought was the craziest of all. He has never elevated this. He’s never talked about it. He’s never pushed on it, because it’s never been seen as a vote-getter. So to all of a sudden see Chuck Schumer go out on the floor and talk like he’s a climate evangelist is amazing. To be fair to Schumer, he said he’s a new grandfather, too. So he cares about his grandchild. But I do think he is also looking at these polls, and looking at this Feinstein video that went viral, and freaking out a little bit and thinking, well, we’ve got to strategize for the next elections. michael barbaro So Coral, what do we make of this? First, the Green New Deal is the hot new thing. Then it is the hot potato. But somehow it landed with Schumer standing on the Senate floor, talking about climate change in this new, powerful way for him. coral davenport Yeah, so at the end of the day, I’m very skeptical that the actual Green New Deal is going to be passed or put into effect. But this sudden skyrocketing to fame of the Green New Deal and Representative Ocasio-Cortez, and the rallying of the millennials, and even the pushback, even the fallout — it showed the Democratic Party leaders, even as middle-of-the-road political pragmatists, that there is a new energy and interest from a key demographic of voter that they care about. That was the effect of this whole Green New Deal roller coaster. And the outcome is we’re in new territory. I never thought I would write the sentence that Chuck Schumer wants to elevate the issue of climate change for campaigns, ever. michael barbaro So actually, you could argue that this resolution that seemed like a political fiasco in the beginning — it actually kind of worked. It injected this issue into the Democratic Party’s bloodstream, just as people like Ocasio-Cortez and liberals, perhaps, intended. coral davenport Even if nothing that the Green New Deal calls for actually comes to pass, it has changed the conversation. It has changed the political calculus. And it has helped bring the issue of climate change into the top tier of political campaigns, a place it’s never been. michael barbaro Coral, thank you very much. We appreciate it. coral davenport Thank you. [MUSIC] Climate change has for the first time emerged as a front-and-center issue in national political campaigns. On Friday, Washington’s governor, Jay Inslee, announced that he would campaign for president on the signature issue of fighting climate change. Other Democratic presidential candidates regularly make campaign speeches about the subject, and most initially rushed to back the Green New Deal, the liberal social policy proposal made famous by its author, Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York. Students around the world are “striking” from school this spring to demand action. But the rise of climate change as a rallying cry has come with huge downsides for Democrats. The ambitions of its youthful advocates have clashed with the caution of Democratic veterans, memorably caught in a viral video of middle and high schoolers confronting Senator Dianne Feinstein of California. And in a speech to conservative activists on Saturday, President Trump appeared to salivate at the chance to confront Democrats on the issue. “I encourage it,” he mockingly said of the Green New Deal. “I think it’s really something that they should promote.” Republicans see a political advantage in tying Democrats to the most contentious Democratic proposals, like linking climate change policy to universal employment. Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, plans to put the Green New Deal to a vote, without a single hearing or legislative language, as a way of daring Senate Democrats, especially those running for president, to go on record in favor of it. “Whether or not they agree with everything in the Green New Deal, they are going to be lumped into what that proposal was,” said Antonia Ferrier, a Republican strategist and former top aide to Mr. McConnell. “To be charitable to them, they care about this issue and think it’s important. But they also do run a risk of alienating a lot of independent-minded voters in some of those states that Hillary Clinton lost in 2016.” Democrats have been skittish about embracing the “green activist” label at least since 2000, when Mr. Gore lost his bid for the White House. Their unease worsened in 2010, when President Barack Obama’s effort to push a climate change bill through Congress crashed in the Democratic Senate and helped sink the careers of some Democrats who voted for it. “Climate change, to our frustration, was never an issue that rung a bell with voters, particularly in the throes of coming out of an economic crisis,” said David Axelrod, the former chief political strategist to Mr. Obama. “But now we’re a decade down the road, and the road is surrounded by floods and fires in a way that is becoming more and more visible.” Polls show that millennial voters, the largest voting demographic, consistently rank climate change as an issue of top concern — something older generations never did. A 2018 poll by the Pew Research Center found that millennials are the only generation in which a strong majority — 65 percent — says both that there is solid evidence of global warming and that this is attributable primarily to human activity. Mr. Schumer said that he believed voters now saw climate change as an issue that affected them in their daily lives, as scientific reports link climate change to damaging extreme weather, such as stronger storms, flooding and drought. He pointed to “the energy of the young people” on the issue and added, “We want to take that energy and channel it into something more constructive.” Celinda Lake, a Democratic strategist, said that if Democrats talked about the issue correctly — using phrases like “transitioning to green energy,” rather than the more polarizing “climate change” — they could win over Trump voters, who associate words like “transition” and “energy” with jobs. “Trump’s weakest issue is the environment,” Ms. Lake said. “As a Democrat, you’re mobilizing our side, you’re cross-pressuring his voters and you’re talking about the economy and the environment at the same time.” But Democrats are likely to run into trouble when it comes time to propose serious policy solutions. Already, supporters of the Green New Deal have been met with criticism that the proposal is chiefly a set of broad-strokes outlines, rather than concrete legislative language. The Green New Deal immediately won the embrace of multiple Democratic presidential candidates, including Senators Kamala Harris of California, Kirsten Gillibrand of New York, Cory Booker of New Jersey, Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota, and Bernie Sanders, independent of Vermont. But it was also hit by a backlash, as Ms. Ocasio-Cortez’s website mistakenly published a draft summary of the document that included contentious provisions not endorsed by those candidates, like language that called for economic security “for all who are unable or unwilling to work.” Other Democrats shied away, including Ms. Feinstein, who told the group of student protesters, “there’s no way to pay for it,” and “it wouldn’t pass the Senate.” Mr. Schumer called the episode “a little hiccup, nothing more.” Republicans saw an opportunity. “Do our Democratic colleagues really support this fantasy novel masquerading as public policy?” Mr. McConnell asked last week on the Senate floor, discussing his plan for the coming vote. “Do they really want to completely upend Americans’ lives to enact some grand socialist vision?” Mr. Schumer’s plan to protect Democrats from going on the record in support of the Green New Deal is to have all members of his caucus simply vote “present” when Mr. McConnell brings the proposal to the Senate floor. Mr. Schumer said he would then counter with a more detailed policy solution, but that may prove just as risky. Such a solution to climate change is the same as it was in 2010, when Mr. Obama failed to pass a bill that required polluters to pay for their carbon emissions. Policy experts say the solution to climate change is still to put a price — ideally, a tax — on carbon dioxide emissions from fossil fuels, essentially creating an energy tax that would raise the price of gasoline and electricity generated from fossil fuels. That idea is likely to remain a tough sell with many voters, even as it energizes the liberal left wing of the Democratic Party. Veterans of the 2010 debacle say the political risk will not be as great as it was then. “There has been a lot of change since then,” said Rick Boucher, a former Democratic congressman from a coal-rich quarter of southwest Virginia, whose constituents voted him out of office for backing the Obama-era climate change bill. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.    Supported by The election was a referendum on Netanyahu and he nailed it. His playbook will be Trump’s in 2020.  By Roger Cohen Opinion Columnist TEL AVIV — It was a referendum on him and he nailed it. Nobody can take that away from Benjamin Netanyahu. This summer, in his fifth term, he will surpass David Ben-Gurion as the longest-serving Israeli prime minister. Enough said. His victory contains a warning for any Democrat still imagining that the 2020 election will bring an easy victory over Donald Trump. The Netanyahu playbook will be President Trump’s next year. Gather nationalist and religious voters in your camp, add in a strong economy, dose with fear, sprinkle with strongman appeal, inject a dash of racism and victory is yours — whatever indictments are looming. It’s not that this could happen. It will happen, absent some decisive factor to upend the logic of it. Netanyahu is savvier than Trump, but they share a shrewd assessment of how to control and manipulate the politics of spectacle, as well as a fierce determination to stay out of jail. They campaign ugly. Exactly a century ago, Ben-Gurion said, “Everyone sees the difficulty of relations between Jews and Arabs, but not everyone sees there is no solution to that question.” Netanyahu’s solution is by now clear. He is a true believer in Greater Israel and will not give up one inch of the land between the Mediterranean and the Jordan River. There will be no Palestinian state on his watch. Period. Many Israelis, weary of the chimera of a two-state peace, thank him for that — as they thank him for a strong economy, Trump’s support and a sense of stability. Netanyahu is a formidable politician adept in using hate and fear, the strongest currency in contemporary politics. His victory was personal but it was also structural. Israel now has a structural majority of the right. This will almost certainly enable Netanyahu to form a right-wing government, even though his Likud party appeared tied with the Blue and White party of his upstart challenger, Benny Gantz, each winning 35 seats. The Gantz performance was remarkable. It demonstrated the deep disquiet of liberal Israel over Netanyahu the King. But in the end Gantz took more votes from the left — the Labor Party and Meretz — than from the right. As Avi Scharf, editor of the English edition of the liberal daily Haaretz, put it to me, “Israel’s founding left is totally obliterated.” The structural majority of the right is composed of the ultra-Orthodox, the settler movement, Mizrahi Jews of North African and Middle Eastern descent, nationalists of various stripes and Russian immigrants like the one who recently told my friend Shlomo Avineri, a political scientist, “I don’t want to live under Putin, but I want my leader to be like Putin.” Netanyahu never passes up a photo-op with Vladimir Putin, any more than he does with Trump. “A different league,” one of his campaign ads said. Netanyahu was able to project presence among the superpowers. His base loved it. Trump’s base loves him, unswervingly. The president is not structurally assured of victory in 2020, but he is structurally within sight of it. That Netanyahu is facing indictment on bribery and other charges proved no obstacle to Likud increasing its seats to 35 from 30 in 2015. In the near term, Israeli politics — and its democracy — will hinge on Netanyahu’s attempts to secure immunity from prosecution while in office. He may make acquiescence to such legislation a condition for coalition partners joining the government. It will not be pretty. “We could see a coup d’état against democracy, something very dangerous,” Tom Segev, a prominent historian, told me. For now, Israelis seem prepared to shrug. The not-with-a-bang-but-a-whimper conclusion to the Mueller report reinforced a feeling that the cloud of corruption that has hung around Netanyahu for years should not be taken as proof of it. In the longer term, Israeli politics will turn to the question of annexation. At the last minute, to shore up the right, Netanyahu promised to start annexing the West Bank if he won another term. The United Right and other extreme parties will not let him forget it. Still, there is no reason to take Netanyahu at his word. He made himself kosher with the Obama administration through his Bar Ilan speech of a decade ago supporting a Palestinian state, only to do nothing to favor one and everything to block one. Annexation could see the same fate because it’s problematic. Netanyahu is happiest in the gray zone where Israel controls millions of Palestinians without having to confront the question of whether they vote or are granted Israeli citizenship. He does not want to jeopardize good relations with Egypt and the Saudis. He’s quite happy with a Palestinian Authority in the West Bank that once saw itself in the role of leading the way to a Palestinian state but has become the feeble enabler of Israel’s gray-zone domination. Netanyahu’s annexation decision may hinge in the end on the long-incubated Trump plan for Israel-Palestine. It’s said to exist. Maybe it really does. God knows. The fact that strong pushback from the United States on partial annexation is no longer assured says it all: The rightist nationalist wave has yet to crest. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Roger Cohen has been a columnist for The Times since 2009. His columns appear Wednesday and Saturday. He joined The Times in 1990, and has served as a foreign correspondent and foreign editor.  @NYTimesCohen 

Supported by The election was a referendum on Netanyahu and he nailed it. His playbook will be Trump’s in 2020.  By Roger Cohen Opinion Columnist TEL AVIV — It was a referendum on him and he nailed it. Nobody can take that away from Benjamin Netanyahu. This summer, in his fifth term, he will surpass David Ben-Gurion as the longest-serving Israeli prime minister. Enough said. His victory contains a warning for any Democrat still imagining that the 2020 election will bring an easy victory over Donald Trump. The Netanyahu playbook will be President Trump’s next year. Gather nationalist and religious voters in your camp, add in a strong economy, dose with fear, sprinkle with strongman appeal, inject a dash of racism and victory is yours — whatever indictments are looming. It’s not that this could happen. It will happen, absent some decisive factor to upend the logic of it. Netanyahu is savvier than Trump, but they share a shrewd assessment of how to control and manipulate the politics of spectacle, as well as a fierce determination to stay out of jail. They campaign ugly. Exactly a century ago, Ben-Gurion said, “Everyone sees the difficulty of relations between Jews and Arabs, but not everyone sees there is no solution to that question.” Netanyahu’s solution is by now clear. He is a true believer in Greater Israel and will not give up one inch of the land between the Mediterranean and the Jordan River. There will be no Palestinian state on his watch. Period. Many Israelis, weary of the chimera of a two-state peace, thank him for that — as they thank him for a strong economy, Trump’s support and a sense of stability. Netanyahu is a formidable politician adept in using hate and fear, the strongest currency in contemporary politics. His victory was personal but it was also structural. Israel now has a structural majority of the right. This will almost certainly enable Netanyahu to form a right-wing government, even though his Likud party appeared tied with the Blue and White party of his upstart challenger, Benny Gantz, each winning 35 seats. The Gantz performance was remarkable. It demonstrated the deep disquiet of liberal Israel over Netanyahu the King. But in the end Gantz took more votes from the left — the Labor Party and Meretz — than from the right. As Avi Scharf, editor of the English edition of the liberal daily Haaretz, put it to me, “Israel’s founding left is totally obliterated.” The structural majority of the right is composed of the ultra-Orthodox, the settler movement, Mizrahi Jews of North African and Middle Eastern descent, nationalists of various stripes and Russian immigrants like the one who recently told my friend Shlomo Avineri, a political scientist, “I don’t want to live under Putin, but I want my leader to be like Putin.” Netanyahu never passes up a photo-op with Vladimir Putin, any more than he does with Trump. “A different league,” one of his campaign ads said. Netanyahu was able to project presence among the superpowers. His base loved it. Trump’s base loves him, unswervingly. The president is not structurally assured of victory in 2020, but he is structurally within sight of it. That Netanyahu is facing indictment on bribery and other charges proved no obstacle to Likud increasing its seats to 35 from 30 in 2015. In the near term, Israeli politics — and its democracy — will hinge on Netanyahu’s attempts to secure immunity from prosecution while in office. He may make acquiescence to such legislation a condition for coalition partners joining the government. It will not be pretty. “We could see a coup d’état against democracy, something very dangerous,” Tom Segev, a prominent historian, told me. For now, Israelis seem prepared to shrug. The not-with-a-bang-but-a-whimper conclusion to the Mueller report reinforced a feeling that the cloud of corruption that has hung around Netanyahu for years should not be taken as proof of it. In the longer term, Israeli politics will turn to the question of annexation. At the last minute, to shore up the right, Netanyahu promised to start annexing the West Bank if he won another term. The United Right and other extreme parties will not let him forget it. Still, there is no reason to take Netanyahu at his word. He made himself kosher with the Obama administration through his Bar Ilan speech of a decade ago supporting a Palestinian state, only to do nothing to favor one and everything to block one. Annexation could see the same fate because it’s problematic. Netanyahu is happiest in the gray zone where Israel controls millions of Palestinians without having to confront the question of whether they vote or are granted Israeli citizenship. He does not want to jeopardize good relations with Egypt and the Saudis. He’s quite happy with a Palestinian Authority in the West Bank that once saw itself in the role of leading the way to a Palestinian state but has become the feeble enabler of Israel’s gray-zone domination. Netanyahu’s annexation decision may hinge in the end on the long-incubated Trump plan for Israel-Palestine. It’s said to exist. Maybe it really does. God knows. The fact that strong pushback from the United States on partial annexation is no longer assured says it all: The rightist nationalist wave has yet to crest. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Roger Cohen has been a columnist for The Times since 2009. His columns appear Wednesday and Saturday. He joined The Times in 1990, and has served as a foreign correspondent and foreign editor.  @NYTimesCohen Supported by By Jesse McKinley and Shane Goldmacher [What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.] ALBANY — A handful of the nation’s leading left-leaning Democrats, including Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and Senators Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren, have picked a fight with an unexpected opponent: the New York State Democratic Party. They are fighting over an arcane, but critical, aspect of New York’s election laws that gives small parties the ability to wield significant influence in state politics. The practice, known as fusion voting, allows small political parties to cross-endorse major candidates, which has enabled organizations like the Working Families Party to become a darling of the progressive left and a growing irritant to Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo. The State Democratic Party on Monday passed a resolution to get rid of fusion voting. New York is only one of a small handful of states that allow it. Mr. Cuomo has not taken a public position on fusion voting, but it seemed unlikely that the State Democratic Party — whose fealty to the governor is so pronounced that the prayer at the 2018 convention praised his accomplishments — would act without his approval. As such, the dispute could open another fault line between the party’s establishment — represented by Mr. Cuomo, a lifelong centrist who had banked to the left in his second term — and the party’s more insurgent wing, which is still suspicious of the governor’s history of working with Republicans. Mr. Sanders asked Mr. Cuomo on Twitter about his feelings on the issue, saying the state party’s proposed action “reeks of vengeance against progressives and the Working Families Party,” which endorsed Cynthia Nixon in her unsuccessful primary challenge against the governor last year. “What’s more, it’s anti-democratic,” Mr. Sanders said on Twitter. “We should be for more democracy, not less. Don’t you agree @NYGovCuomo?” That tweet was later deleted and replaced with a less confrontational comment. (Josh Orton, a spokesman for Mr. Sanders, said an early draft of the senator’s tweet was accidentally posted and then quickly replaced, and that Mr. Cuomo’s team had not communicated any reaction about the initial tweet.) Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, also on Twitter, conveyed her support for the practice, decrying “New York’s notorious closed-party primaries and calcified political machines,” and calling fusion voting “one of the few bright spots that allows independent NYers to vote their values.” “There isn’t a single good reason to eliminate it,” Ms. Ocasio-Cortez wrote. A Cuomo administration official suggested on Monday that the Working Families Party was creating an imagined conflict to stir up support for itself. “I know they were humiliated in last year’s governor’s race, but that’s no excuse to run around spreading lies and ranting about conspiracies,” said Richard Azzopardi, a senior adviser to Mr. Cuomo. “It’s both sad and a bad look.” The state party’s resolution has little practical impact; any effort to eliminate fusion voting must be approved by the Democrat-controlled State Legislature, and such legislation would likely face a difficult path, even with the state party supporting the move. Many Democratic lawmakers benefit from appearing on multiple lines. Much of the Senate Democratic conference, which took control of Albany’s upper chamber in January, is opposed to eliminating fusion voting, including a bloc of six newly elected senators who in a letter released on Monday thanked the W.F.P., and fusion voting, for getting them into office. “Progressives want to make it easier for voters to express their values and viewpoints, not harder,” the six senators wrote. “That means mending our current system of fusion voting, not ending it.” A spokesman for the Senate Democrats, Mike Murphy, said there was “no legislative proposal” to end fusion voting and that the “Senate majority has been clear that we support efforts to empower voters and strengthen New York’s democracy.” By day’s end, nearly two dozen Democratic senators, in a letter to the Democratic leader, Senator Andrea Stewart-Cousins, said that abolishing fusion voting was a bad idea. They also called on Ms. Stewart-Cousins to decouple any negotiation over fusion voting from the budget, due April 1, when Mr. Cuomo could have some leverage over lawmakers. “The policy debate is too important to New York voters to be left to the 11th hour,” the letter read. On the other side of the Capitol, the Democratic speaker of the Assembly, Carl E. Heastie of the Bronx, was more circumspect, saying he and his conference had not yet discussed the issue. Fusion voting helps facilitate the survival of parties like the Conservative Party and the Independence Party, which often endorse Republicans. Under state law, any party which receives 50,000 votes in a gubernatorial election is guaranteed a spot on the ballot for the next four years. Mr. Cuomo collected votes on four different ballot lines, including the Working Families Party, on the way toward a record vote-tally in November. But the W.F.P. did not endorse Mr. Cuomo in the primary; party leaders, saying they wanted to support a “real Democrat,” chose Ms. Nixon. The W.F.P.’s bet backfired when Mr. Cuomo badly defeated Ms. Nixon in September, and the group subsequently endorsed Mr. Cuomo in the general election in a humbling reversal. Since then, the party has anticipated retribution from Mr. Cuomo, who has been known to hold a grudge. The W.F.P. continued to issue warning shots to the Democratic Party in the last several days, sending out a battery of letters from supporters of fusion voting — including Senators Chuck Schumer, Kirsten Gillibrand, and most of the state’s Democratic House of Representatives delegation — and issuing multiple online pleas for support tagged with #StandWithWFP and #NoFusionBan. After the vote on Monday, the group’s state director, Bill Lipton, also bashed the resolution, accusing the Democratic State Committee of “carrying Cuomo’s water to exact revenge” against progressives and his party. “Luckily, Democratic elected officials, activists and progressive leaders aren’t buying it,” Mr. Lipton said. At the party meeting in Westchester on Monday, several supporters of the resolution seemed to suggest that Democrats were fed up with the influence that small parties like the W.F.P. wield. “I’m tired of the tail wagging the dog,” said Tim Perfetti, the chairman of the Cortland County Democratic Party. Jay Jacobs, the newly elected party chairman and the head of the Nassau County Democratic Party, denied that Mr. Cuomo had called for the party to take up the ban, saying that he, other county leaders and members of the party’s progressive caucus had long wanted it passed, citing election wins by Republicans thanks to third-party votes. Still, Mr. Jacobs acknowledged that the resolution’s passage was unlikely to displease Mr. Cuomo. “Is the governor going to be unhappy about it?” Mr. Jacobs said. “Probably not.”    

Supported by By Jesse McKinley and Shane Goldmacher [What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.] ALBANY — A handful of the nation’s leading left-leaning Democrats, including Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and Senators Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren, have picked a fight with an unexpected opponent: the New York State Democratic Party. They are fighting over an arcane, but critical, aspect of New York’s election laws that gives small parties the ability to wield significant influence in state politics. The practice, known as fusion voting, allows small political parties to cross-endorse major candidates, which has enabled organizations like the Working Families Party to become a darling of the progressive left and a growing irritant to Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo. The State Democratic Party on Monday passed a resolution to get rid of fusion voting. New York is only one of a small handful of states that allow it. Mr. Cuomo has not taken a public position on fusion voting, but it seemed unlikely that the State Democratic Party — whose fealty to the governor is so pronounced that the prayer at the 2018 convention praised his accomplishments — would act without his approval. As such, the dispute could open another fault line between the party’s establishment — represented by Mr. Cuomo, a lifelong centrist who had banked to the left in his second term — and the party’s more insurgent wing, which is still suspicious of the governor’s history of working with Republicans. Mr. Sanders asked Mr. Cuomo on Twitter about his feelings on the issue, saying the state party’s proposed action “reeks of vengeance against progressives and the Working Families Party,” which endorsed Cynthia Nixon in her unsuccessful primary challenge against the governor last year. “What’s more, it’s anti-democratic,” Mr. Sanders said on Twitter. “We should be for more democracy, not less. Don’t you agree @NYGovCuomo?” That tweet was later deleted and replaced with a less confrontational comment. (Josh Orton, a spokesman for Mr. Sanders, said an early draft of the senator’s tweet was accidentally posted and then quickly replaced, and that Mr. Cuomo’s team had not communicated any reaction about the initial tweet.) Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, also on Twitter, conveyed her support for the practice, decrying “New York’s notorious closed-party primaries and calcified political machines,” and calling fusion voting “one of the few bright spots that allows independent NYers to vote their values.” “There isn’t a single good reason to eliminate it,” Ms. Ocasio-Cortez wrote. A Cuomo administration official suggested on Monday that the Working Families Party was creating an imagined conflict to stir up support for itself. “I know they were humiliated in last year’s governor’s race, but that’s no excuse to run around spreading lies and ranting about conspiracies,” said Richard Azzopardi, a senior adviser to Mr. Cuomo. “It’s both sad and a bad look.” The state party’s resolution has little practical impact; any effort to eliminate fusion voting must be approved by the Democrat-controlled State Legislature, and such legislation would likely face a difficult path, even with the state party supporting the move. Many Democratic lawmakers benefit from appearing on multiple lines. Much of the Senate Democratic conference, which took control of Albany’s upper chamber in January, is opposed to eliminating fusion voting, including a bloc of six newly elected senators who in a letter released on Monday thanked the W.F.P., and fusion voting, for getting them into office. “Progressives want to make it easier for voters to express their values and viewpoints, not harder,” the six senators wrote. “That means mending our current system of fusion voting, not ending it.” A spokesman for the Senate Democrats, Mike Murphy, said there was “no legislative proposal” to end fusion voting and that the “Senate majority has been clear that we support efforts to empower voters and strengthen New York’s democracy.” By day’s end, nearly two dozen Democratic senators, in a letter to the Democratic leader, Senator Andrea Stewart-Cousins, said that abolishing fusion voting was a bad idea. They also called on Ms. Stewart-Cousins to decouple any negotiation over fusion voting from the budget, due April 1, when Mr. Cuomo could have some leverage over lawmakers. “The policy debate is too important to New York voters to be left to the 11th hour,” the letter read. On the other side of the Capitol, the Democratic speaker of the Assembly, Carl E. Heastie of the Bronx, was more circumspect, saying he and his conference had not yet discussed the issue. Fusion voting helps facilitate the survival of parties like the Conservative Party and the Independence Party, which often endorse Republicans. Under state law, any party which receives 50,000 votes in a gubernatorial election is guaranteed a spot on the ballot for the next four years. Mr. Cuomo collected votes on four different ballot lines, including the Working Families Party, on the way toward a record vote-tally in November. But the W.F.P. did not endorse Mr. Cuomo in the primary; party leaders, saying they wanted to support a “real Democrat,” chose Ms. Nixon. The W.F.P.’s bet backfired when Mr. Cuomo badly defeated Ms. Nixon in September, and the group subsequently endorsed Mr. Cuomo in the general election in a humbling reversal. Since then, the party has anticipated retribution from Mr. Cuomo, who has been known to hold a grudge. The W.F.P. continued to issue warning shots to the Democratic Party in the last several days, sending out a battery of letters from supporters of fusion voting — including Senators Chuck Schumer, Kirsten Gillibrand, and most of the state’s Democratic House of Representatives delegation — and issuing multiple online pleas for support tagged with #StandWithWFP and #NoFusionBan. After the vote on Monday, the group’s state director, Bill Lipton, also bashed the resolution, accusing the Democratic State Committee of “carrying Cuomo’s water to exact revenge” against progressives and his party. “Luckily, Democratic elected officials, activists and progressive leaders aren’t buying it,” Mr. Lipton said. At the party meeting in Westchester on Monday, several supporters of the resolution seemed to suggest that Democrats were fed up with the influence that small parties like the W.F.P. wield. “I’m tired of the tail wagging the dog,” said Tim Perfetti, the chairman of the Cortland County Democratic Party. Jay Jacobs, the newly elected party chairman and the head of the Nassau County Democratic Party, denied that Mr. Cuomo had called for the party to take up the ban, saying that he, other county leaders and members of the party’s progressive caucus had long wanted it passed, citing election wins by Republicans thanks to third-party votes. Still, Mr. Jacobs acknowledged that the resolution’s passage was unlikely to displease Mr. Cuomo. “Is the governor going to be unhappy about it?” Mr. Jacobs said. “Probably not.”    Supported by By Glenn Thrush and Sheryl Gay Stolberg WASHINGTON — Democrats filed into the House chamber on Thursday — depleted and punch drunk — to vote for an overstuffed resolution condemning prejudice — and end, or so they hoped, a week of infighting that vividly illustrated the perils of policing their own speech. “I hope this puts an end to all of this,” said Representative Robin Kelly, Democrat of Illinois, moments before the measure, which condemned anti-Semitism and virtually every other form of bigotry, passed with unanimous Democratic support. It almost certainly will not. The measure, which began as a rebuke to Representative Ilhan Omar, Democrat of Minnesota and a freshman lawmaker, and ended as a catchall declaration of tolerance that did not mention her by name, seemed to satisfy no one. Ultimately, the wrenching intraparty fight left unanswered a question that transcends partisan politics: In an era of shouting and provocation, how should Congress respond when its members say hateful or hurtful things? Ms. Omar, who suggested that pro-Israel activists were pushing an “allegiance to a foreign country,” is hardly the first member of Congress to make offensive remarks. Representative Steve King, Republican of Iowa, spent more than a decade making bigoted comments — he once said Mexicans had “calves the size of cantaloupes” from running drugs across the border — before he was stripped of his committee assignments after he wondered aloud why the term “white supremacy” was considered offensive. Plenty of others have skated up to the edge of racism and anti-Semitism with no consequence. Representative Andy Biggs, Republican of Arizona who branded Ms. Omar an anti-Semite, raised eyebrows in 2016 when he charged that the Jewish philanthropist George Soros was buying a local election for county attorney. Representative Louie Gohmert, Republican of Texas, complained bitterly that last week’s anti-Semitism resolution had been watered down, just a few months after he accused Mr. Soros of collaborating with the Nazis during World War II. Patrick Gaspard, the president of Mr. Soros’s Open Society Foundations, demanded Mr. Gohmert apologize for the “disturbing and false anti-Semitic slur.” [Read also: “Why Some Republicans Voted Against the Antibigotry Resolution.”] While Republicans did rebuke Mr. King and occasionally criticize President Trump’s language — such as when he said there were “very fine people on both sides” of the white supremacist rally in Charlottesville, Va. — rarely have they engaged in the kind of public soul-searching Democrats undertook last week. Now many Democrats worry they have set a new standard, creating a precedent that mandates a major response every time a member transgresses rules of rhetorical decorum that are ill-defined and subject to dispute. “We have to be careful,” said Ms. Kelly, a member of the Congressional Black Caucus, which fought to blunt criticism of Ms. Omar. “She was elected just like I was, and she has the right to say what she believes, just as I do.” Then there is the question of what happens if there is a next time. Some Jewish groups are already demanding that Ms. Omar be stripped of her seat on the House Foreign Affairs Committee — a step Democratic leaders have thus far been loath to take. “That’s the real question: what if this happens again? What are we going to do?” asked Representative Josh Gottheimer, Democrat of New Jersey, who was among those pushing strongly for a resolution focused solely on anti-Semitism. There are virtually no rules governing a House members’ right to say whatever they please outside of the parliamentary regulations covering proceedings on the floor and in committees. The first article of the official code of conduct of members, enforced by the Committee on Ethics, contains only a broad declaration, that, “A member, delegate, resident commissioner, officer or employee of the House shall behave at all times in a manner that shall reflect creditably on the House.” Punishing members for what they say, either through formal or informal channels, has been relatively rare since the 19th century, and representatives are far more likely to face a meaningful backlash by bucking leadership politically than for anything else they say. “We can’t police everybody’s speech, but there is a line,” said a visibly upset Representative Lois Frankel, a Democrat who represents a heavily Jewish district in Florida. She said Ms. Omar had crossed that line — intentionally or not — by criticizing the motives of Israel’s supporters instead of the policies of the Israeli government. That left a “blemish” on a party that prides itself on inclusion. “The King thing seemed like an easy call,” Representative Raúl M. Grijalva, Democrat of Arizona, said of Mr. King’s punishment. “Have we set a precedent that we now have to live with? It’s hard to know. But we can’t keep doing this. We can’t stay on the seesaw.” Ms. Omar, 36, one of the first two Muslim women elected to Congress, fled war-torn Somalia when she was a child and spent four years in a refugee camp in Kenya. She has been fending off accusations of anti-Semitism for weeks; before last week’s uproar, Democratic leaders forced her to apologize for a comment she made in February, when she said support for Israel was “all about the Benjamins, baby” — a reference to $100 bills. Democratic leaders came down hard on her, and in her apology, she expressed gratitude to “Jewish allies and colleagues who are educating me on the painful history of anti-Semitic tropes.” So when she told a gathering of liberals that pro-Israel activists were pushing “for allegiance to a foreign country,” leading Jewish Democrats were furious. Representative Eliot L. Engel of New York, the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee — who had already warned Ms. Omar that such comments would not be “swept under the rug” — issued a statement calling her words “a vile anti-Semitic slur” that had “no place in the Foreign Affairs Committee” — an indication, many felt, that she was in danger of losing her seat. Instead, Mr. Engel and other top Democrats settled on a resolution condemning anti-Semitism; at first they wanted to name Ms. Omar. But their plan went awry amid pushback from progressives and members of the black caucus, who noted that Ms. Omar herself was recently the target of anti-Muslim bigotry in West Virginia, where a poster linked her to the Sept. 11 attacks. By Tuesday evening, Speaker Nancy Pelosi — who insisted that Ms. Omar not be named and who wanted a broader resolution — had stepped in, telling her members the resolution would be amended to include anti-Muslim bias; eventually, it was expanded to include a condemnation of all forms of bigotry. Mr. King abstained from the vote, and 23 Republicans voted against the resolution, most of them deeming it a show vote. Some said Democrats should have handled Ms. Omar the way Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the Republican leader, handled Mr. King, by stripping her of her committee assignments. Representative Zoe Lofgren, Democrat of California, who has served in the House for a quarter-century, said there was no comparison between Ms. Omar’s situation and Mr. King’s transgressions. In June, when Mr. King retweeted a Nazi sympathizer, Republican leaders and fellow Republicans said nothing. Only after he secured his seat after his toughest re-election bid did they act. “They put up with his outrageous comments for more than a decade, and they only took action because they thought it would damage the Republican brand,” she said. Several Democratic members privately questioned Ms. Pelosi’s decision to bring up the resolution at all, arguing the matter should have been dealt with in private to avoid a messy and distracting public debate. Others likened the internal debate over the resolution to a weeklong family therapy session, a painful but necessary airing of grievances. “That is the silver lining,” said Representative Hank Johnson, Democrat of Georgia, who came to power in 2007 after defeating a fellow Democrat who had also been accused of anti-Semitism. “We need to talk about things like this.” Representative Jamie Raskin, Democrat of Maryland and an author of the antibigotry resolution, said Ms. Pelosi had established guidelines for future behavior. “If we don’t stand on principles and values we’re going to be chasing every legislator in Congress around and proofreading their remarks,” he said. In a seeming warning to Ms. Omar, he added, “And we expect everybody to live up to the high standards we set out.” Democrats say they do not have the luxury of ignoring bigotry. With Ms. Omar, they are appealing to her own sense of responsibility to the party, and offering their own experience as a guide on how to move forward. In 2010, Mr. Grijalva called on tourists and conventioneers to boycott his home state of Arizona after Republicans passed a restrictive immigration law. He was hit with a backlash that taught him to temper his tongue. “It was a nightmare,” he said. “I felt like I was in a tunnel and couldn’t get out. But you learn. There is a muddy line between candor and civility — and civility is important around here. Whether you really mean it or not, that’s another question.”

Supported by By Glenn Thrush and Sheryl Gay Stolberg WASHINGTON — Democrats filed into the House chamber on Thursday — depleted and punch drunk — to vote for an overstuffed resolution condemning prejudice — and end, or so they hoped, a week of infighting that vividly illustrated the perils of policing their own speech. “I hope this puts an end to all of this,” said Representative Robin Kelly, Democrat of Illinois, moments before the measure, which condemned anti-Semitism and virtually every other form of bigotry, passed with unanimous Democratic support. It almost certainly will not. The measure, which began as a rebuke to Representative Ilhan Omar, Democrat of Minnesota and a freshman lawmaker, and ended as a catchall declaration of tolerance that did not mention her by name, seemed to satisfy no one. Ultimately, the wrenching intraparty fight left unanswered a question that transcends partisan politics: In an era of shouting and provocation, how should Congress respond when its members say hateful or hurtful things? Ms. Omar, who suggested that pro-Israel activists were pushing an “allegiance to a foreign country,” is hardly the first member of Congress to make offensive remarks. Representative Steve King, Republican of Iowa, spent more than a decade making bigoted comments — he once said Mexicans had “calves the size of cantaloupes” from running drugs across the border — before he was stripped of his committee assignments after he wondered aloud why the term “white supremacy” was considered offensive. Plenty of others have skated up to the edge of racism and anti-Semitism with no consequence. Representative Andy Biggs, Republican of Arizona who branded Ms. Omar an anti-Semite, raised eyebrows in 2016 when he charged that the Jewish philanthropist George Soros was buying a local election for county attorney. Representative Louie Gohmert, Republican of Texas, complained bitterly that last week’s anti-Semitism resolution had been watered down, just a few months after he accused Mr. Soros of collaborating with the Nazis during World War II. Patrick Gaspard, the president of Mr. Soros’s Open Society Foundations, demanded Mr. Gohmert apologize for the “disturbing and false anti-Semitic slur.” [Read also: “Why Some Republicans Voted Against the Antibigotry Resolution.”] While Republicans did rebuke Mr. King and occasionally criticize President Trump’s language — such as when he said there were “very fine people on both sides” of the white supremacist rally in Charlottesville, Va. — rarely have they engaged in the kind of public soul-searching Democrats undertook last week. Now many Democrats worry they have set a new standard, creating a precedent that mandates a major response every time a member transgresses rules of rhetorical decorum that are ill-defined and subject to dispute. “We have to be careful,” said Ms. Kelly, a member of the Congressional Black Caucus, which fought to blunt criticism of Ms. Omar. “She was elected just like I was, and she has the right to say what she believes, just as I do.” Then there is the question of what happens if there is a next time. Some Jewish groups are already demanding that Ms. Omar be stripped of her seat on the House Foreign Affairs Committee — a step Democratic leaders have thus far been loath to take. “That’s the real question: what if this happens again? What are we going to do?” asked Representative Josh Gottheimer, Democrat of New Jersey, who was among those pushing strongly for a resolution focused solely on anti-Semitism. There are virtually no rules governing a House members’ right to say whatever they please outside of the parliamentary regulations covering proceedings on the floor and in committees. The first article of the official code of conduct of members, enforced by the Committee on Ethics, contains only a broad declaration, that, “A member, delegate, resident commissioner, officer or employee of the House shall behave at all times in a manner that shall reflect creditably on the House.” Punishing members for what they say, either through formal or informal channels, has been relatively rare since the 19th century, and representatives are far more likely to face a meaningful backlash by bucking leadership politically than for anything else they say. “We can’t police everybody’s speech, but there is a line,” said a visibly upset Representative Lois Frankel, a Democrat who represents a heavily Jewish district in Florida. She said Ms. Omar had crossed that line — intentionally or not — by criticizing the motives of Israel’s supporters instead of the policies of the Israeli government. That left a “blemish” on a party that prides itself on inclusion. “The King thing seemed like an easy call,” Representative Raúl M. Grijalva, Democrat of Arizona, said of Mr. King’s punishment. “Have we set a precedent that we now have to live with? It’s hard to know. But we can’t keep doing this. We can’t stay on the seesaw.” Ms. Omar, 36, one of the first two Muslim women elected to Congress, fled war-torn Somalia when she was a child and spent four years in a refugee camp in Kenya. She has been fending off accusations of anti-Semitism for weeks; before last week’s uproar, Democratic leaders forced her to apologize for a comment she made in February, when she said support for Israel was “all about the Benjamins, baby” — a reference to $100 bills. Democratic leaders came down hard on her, and in her apology, she expressed gratitude to “Jewish allies and colleagues who are educating me on the painful history of anti-Semitic tropes.” So when she told a gathering of liberals that pro-Israel activists were pushing “for allegiance to a foreign country,” leading Jewish Democrats were furious. Representative Eliot L. Engel of New York, the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee — who had already warned Ms. Omar that such comments would not be “swept under the rug” — issued a statement calling her words “a vile anti-Semitic slur” that had “no place in the Foreign Affairs Committee” — an indication, many felt, that she was in danger of losing her seat. Instead, Mr. Engel and other top Democrats settled on a resolution condemning anti-Semitism; at first they wanted to name Ms. Omar. But their plan went awry amid pushback from progressives and members of the black caucus, who noted that Ms. Omar herself was recently the target of anti-Muslim bigotry in West Virginia, where a poster linked her to the Sept. 11 attacks. By Tuesday evening, Speaker Nancy Pelosi — who insisted that Ms. Omar not be named and who wanted a broader resolution — had stepped in, telling her members the resolution would be amended to include anti-Muslim bias; eventually, it was expanded to include a condemnation of all forms of bigotry. Mr. King abstained from the vote, and 23 Republicans voted against the resolution, most of them deeming it a show vote. Some said Democrats should have handled Ms. Omar the way Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the Republican leader, handled Mr. King, by stripping her of her committee assignments. Representative Zoe Lofgren, Democrat of California, who has served in the House for a quarter-century, said there was no comparison between Ms. Omar’s situation and Mr. King’s transgressions. In June, when Mr. King retweeted a Nazi sympathizer, Republican leaders and fellow Republicans said nothing. Only after he secured his seat after his toughest re-election bid did they act. “They put up with his outrageous comments for more than a decade, and they only took action because they thought it would damage the Republican brand,” she said. Several Democratic members privately questioned Ms. Pelosi’s decision to bring up the resolution at all, arguing the matter should have been dealt with in private to avoid a messy and distracting public debate. Others likened the internal debate over the resolution to a weeklong family therapy session, a painful but necessary airing of grievances. “That is the silver lining,” said Representative Hank Johnson, Democrat of Georgia, who came to power in 2007 after defeating a fellow Democrat who had also been accused of anti-Semitism. “We need to talk about things like this.” Representative Jamie Raskin, Democrat of Maryland and an author of the antibigotry resolution, said Ms. Pelosi had established guidelines for future behavior. “If we don’t stand on principles and values we’re going to be chasing every legislator in Congress around and proofreading their remarks,” he said. In a seeming warning to Ms. Omar, he added, “And we expect everybody to live up to the high standards we set out.” Democrats say they do not have the luxury of ignoring bigotry. With Ms. Omar, they are appealing to her own sense of responsibility to the party, and offering their own experience as a guide on how to move forward. In 2010, Mr. Grijalva called on tourists and conventioneers to boycott his home state of Arizona after Republicans passed a restrictive immigration law. He was hit with a backlash that taught him to temper his tongue. “It was a nightmare,” he said. “I felt like I was in a tunnel and couldn’t get out. But you learn. There is a muddy line between candor and civility — and civility is important around here. Whether you really mean it or not, that’s another question.”Supported by letters “When our choice of candidates comes only from the far left and far right, it’s a lot harder for the current parties to meet in the middle,” a reader writes. To the Editor: Re “Measuring Room for Centrists in Democratic Field for 2020” (front page, Jan. 31): This article about the possibility of a centrist capturing the Democratic nomination misses an important bloc of potential voters: Republicans. Just like centrist Democrats, moderate Republicans are dismayed at how elections are increasingly a choice between two extremes. I am a fiscally conservative and socially liberal Republican. That puts me squarely in the middle, but no moderate (or any other) Republican presidential candidate has emerged to represent these views. How can that be? If President Trump is the Republican nominee in 2020, I’m prepared to leave my party. The thought of Michael Bloomberg running for president is terribly exciting to me. The push toward socialism by candidates like Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders is just as alarming as Mr. Trump’s presidency has been. When our choice of candidates comes only from the far left and far right, it’s a lot harder for the current parties to meet in the middle. We need a brave candidate in either party to firmly stake a place in the middle and give moderate voters the option that’s missing. Jana HappelNew York To the Editor: It was Will Rogers who said: “I am not a member of any organized political party. I am a Democrat.” And how true these words ring today. As a 73-year-old who worked for Gene McCarthy and George McGovern, I have grown more pragmatic over the years and have learned that compromise is not a dirty word. So it is of concern to me to see if the Democrats, with many candidates moving to the left, or far left, realistically think that they have a message that can beat President Trump. That should be the foremost goal of the party and those running. Moreover, I despair of a candidate who will leave a hole in the center for an independent candidate. We have seen that show before, and as much as Howard Schultz is a well-intentioned man, if he enters the race, we may well hand victory to Mr. Trump, as in 2016 when lesser-known third-party candidates may have cost the Democrats the election. This country just can’t have another four years of an administration that seems intent on destroying the country, and perhaps the world. Steve ZimanSan Rafael, Calif. To the Editor: You seem to me to be moving with indecent haste to affix labels like “centrist” and “moderate” to the Democratic hopefuls. We are a year from the first primaries. Why not hear the candidates out, and let the voters determine which positions are moderate? Is some version of “Medicare for all” “moderate” or “fringe”? Higher marginal tax rate? Let’s not do the candidate sorting yet. James DoyleSalem, Mass. To the Editor: President Trump can pander to his base all he wants, but it is hardly an effective strategy for re-election in 2020. While it may well allow him to fend off any competition in the primary, there are simply not enough hard-core supporters to carry him in the general election.  Of course unseen variables such as a credible third-party candidate or an exceptionally unacceptable Democratic candidate, as in 2016, could alter the landscape. But without that it is hard to see how Mr. Trump has added the voters to his less than 40 percent base that will be necessary to win. We are essentially a centrist nation, and while I know plenty of people who voted for Mr. Trump in 2016 but will not vote for him again, I have yet to meet anyone who did not support him in the last election who plans to in 2020. Wise strategy would suggest that a candidate who barely won should expand his support base. I don’t see that the president has done that. Ed MurphyMinneapolis

Supported by letters “When our choice of candidates comes only from the far left and far right, it’s a lot harder for the current parties to meet in the middle,” a reader writes. To the Editor: Re “Measuring Room for Centrists in Democratic Field for 2020” (front page, Jan. 31): This article about the possibility of a centrist capturing the Democratic nomination misses an important bloc of potential voters: Republicans. Just like centrist Democrats, moderate Republicans are dismayed at how elections are increasingly a choice between two extremes. I am a fiscally conservative and socially liberal Republican. That puts me squarely in the middle, but no moderate (or any other) Republican presidential candidate has emerged to represent these views. How can that be? If President Trump is the Republican nominee in 2020, I’m prepared to leave my party. The thought of Michael Bloomberg running for president is terribly exciting to me. The push toward socialism by candidates like Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders is just as alarming as Mr. Trump’s presidency has been. When our choice of candidates comes only from the far left and far right, it’s a lot harder for the current parties to meet in the middle. We need a brave candidate in either party to firmly stake a place in the middle and give moderate voters the option that’s missing. Jana HappelNew York To the Editor: It was Will Rogers who said: “I am not a member of any organized political party. I am a Democrat.” And how true these words ring today. As a 73-year-old who worked for Gene McCarthy and George McGovern, I have grown more pragmatic over the years and have learned that compromise is not a dirty word. So it is of concern to me to see if the Democrats, with many candidates moving to the left, or far left, realistically think that they have a message that can beat President Trump. That should be the foremost goal of the party and those running. Moreover, I despair of a candidate who will leave a hole in the center for an independent candidate. We have seen that show before, and as much as Howard Schultz is a well-intentioned man, if he enters the race, we may well hand victory to Mr. Trump, as in 2016 when lesser-known third-party candidates may have cost the Democrats the election. This country just can’t have another four years of an administration that seems intent on destroying the country, and perhaps the world. Steve ZimanSan Rafael, Calif. To the Editor: You seem to me to be moving with indecent haste to affix labels like “centrist” and “moderate” to the Democratic hopefuls. We are a year from the first primaries. Why not hear the candidates out, and let the voters determine which positions are moderate? Is some version of “Medicare for all” “moderate” or “fringe”? Higher marginal tax rate? Let’s not do the candidate sorting yet. James DoyleSalem, Mass. To the Editor: President Trump can pander to his base all he wants, but it is hardly an effective strategy for re-election in 2020. While it may well allow him to fend off any competition in the primary, there are simply not enough hard-core supporters to carry him in the general election.  Of course unseen variables such as a credible third-party candidate or an exceptionally unacceptable Democratic candidate, as in 2016, could alter the landscape. But without that it is hard to see how Mr. Trump has added the voters to his less than 40 percent base that will be necessary to win. We are essentially a centrist nation, and while I know plenty of people who voted for Mr. Trump in 2016 but will not vote for him again, I have yet to meet anyone who did not support him in the last election who plans to in 2020. Wise strategy would suggest that a candidate who barely won should expand his support base. I don’t see that the president has done that. Ed MurphyMinneapolisSupported by By Emily Cochrane WASHINGTON — Presidential budgets are by tradition declared dead on arrival even before the details reach Capitol Hill, and President Trump’s $4.75 trillion budget for the 2020 fiscal year received that greeting in spades on Monday. But with a new Democratic majority in the House, the release of Mr. Trump’s budget blueprints marked the start of a consequential budget season. House Democrats must now work out a blueprint for governing that will define the party’s vision in clear terms — and answer burning questions on health care, taxation, climate change and other policy matters that have dogged the new majority since it took control. In short, it is time for the Democrats to show their cards. “We have a very different set of values and priorities,” Representative John Yarmuth of Kentucky, the chairman of the House Budget Committee, told reporters on Monday. “Ours will be a very realistic budget resolution.” The budget is a nonbinding document, and with Republicans controlling the Senate, it may be impossible for the two chambers to work out their differences. Faced with that prospect, Democratic leadership on Monday discussed not holding a vote on the budget, according to a leadership aide. The meeting, first reported by Politico, did not end with a decision. Just as the first budget of the Tea Party Republican era, in 2011, defined the party for years, a budget passed by House Democrats this year would almost certainly have political consequences. Mr. Yarmuth outlined a number of issues that Democrats hope to address in a budget that he said the committee hoped to unveil by mid-April, pointing to health care savings, a possible immigration-law overhaul and infrastructure investment as likely priorities. He pointed to prescription drug pricing, combating the opioid epidemic, infrastructure and investment in cybersecurity as areas in the administration’s proposal that could yield compromise. “The ingredients — in terms of either end of the Capitol — are there to make a reasonable deal,” Mr. Yarmuth said. “The White House is the wild card.” But even without Republicans, Democrats will need to find common ground. An increasingly vocal left flank is adamant that their initiatives — such as “Medicare for all” and the ambitious Green New Deal — be included in an initial budget blueprint. More moderate Democrats are likely to be just as adamant that they are not. And Mr. Yarmuth appeared to tip his hand when he said that a final budget proposal would probably focus on protecting and restoring elements of the Affordable Care Act, as opposed to endorsing Medicare for all. This spring’s budget will force Democratic leadership to weigh the limitations of divided government against the desires of members who won their seats by promising to shake things up in Washington. In 2011, House Republicans — who also faced a Senate and a White House under the control of the opposing party — lost support from rank-and-file members as they muscled through an ambitious budget devised to limit federal spending. The budget produced by the Budget Committee chairman at the time, Paul D. Ryan, included deep domestic spending cuts and plans to offer voucherlike “premium support” to older Americans to buy private insurance outside Medicare. Democrats used that budget as a political cudgel. Democrats face the same prospects, and they are divided on which policies to enshrine in the blueprint. In an effort to hear a range of perspectives, Mr. Yarmuth has met with the Congressional Progressive Caucus and is scheduled to meet with the Blue Dog Coalition, a group of Democrats who preach fiscal discipline, to discuss the coming budget. Both groups have members on the Budget Committee. “So far, we haven’t run into any huge ideological obstacles to putting together a reasonable budget,” Mr. Yarmuth said. Representative Ro Khanna, a liberal Democrat from California and a member of the committee, said he planned to advocate the inclusion of Medicare for all and other facets of a progressive agenda, as well as rolling back some elements of Republican tax cuts passed under Mr. Trump and President George W. Bush. “We have to make the case for economic growth for progressive policies,” Mr. Khanna said in an interview. Including Medicare for all in the final budget provides an opportunity for Democrats to “explain to the American people that this is going to save average families and the country money.” He acknowledged that it was unlikely that there would be a complete embrace of all of the policies, particularly the Green New Deal’s sweeping plan for tackling climate change and providing jobs, but that should not deter Democrats from including some nods to the broader vision. “That pragmatic vision has to be done side by side with the aspirational one,” he said. Lawmakers also have to contend with a ballooning federal deficit and a looming deadline to address spending caps that Congress put in place under President Barack Obama. While Mr. Trump’s budget proposal technically adheres to the limitations, Mr. Yarmuth said the side were far from an ideal starting point in negotiations. “We’re so far apart in our priorities that we have to wonder if the White House is going to be a serious negotiator, and that’s disturbing,” Mr. Yarmuth said. “But, on the other hand, this is a proposal not unlike the one they submitted last year, and we ultimately came up with a spending agreement.”    

Supported by By Emily Cochrane WASHINGTON — Presidential budgets are by tradition declared dead on arrival even before the details reach Capitol Hill, and President Trump’s $4.75 trillion budget for the 2020 fiscal year received that greeting in spades on Monday. But with a new Democratic majority in the House, the release of Mr. Trump’s budget blueprints marked the start of a consequential budget season. House Democrats must now work out a blueprint for governing that will define the party’s vision in clear terms — and answer burning questions on health care, taxation, climate change and other policy matters that have dogged the new majority since it took control. In short, it is time for the Democrats to show their cards. “We have a very different set of values and priorities,” Representative John Yarmuth of Kentucky, the chairman of the House Budget Committee, told reporters on Monday. “Ours will be a very realistic budget resolution.” The budget is a nonbinding document, and with Republicans controlling the Senate, it may be impossible for the two chambers to work out their differences. Faced with that prospect, Democratic leadership on Monday discussed not holding a vote on the budget, according to a leadership aide. The meeting, first reported by Politico, did not end with a decision. Just as the first budget of the Tea Party Republican era, in 2011, defined the party for years, a budget passed by House Democrats this year would almost certainly have political consequences. Mr. Yarmuth outlined a number of issues that Democrats hope to address in a budget that he said the committee hoped to unveil by mid-April, pointing to health care savings, a possible immigration-law overhaul and infrastructure investment as likely priorities. He pointed to prescription drug pricing, combating the opioid epidemic, infrastructure and investment in cybersecurity as areas in the administration’s proposal that could yield compromise. “The ingredients — in terms of either end of the Capitol — are there to make a reasonable deal,” Mr. Yarmuth said. “The White House is the wild card.” But even without Republicans, Democrats will need to find common ground. An increasingly vocal left flank is adamant that their initiatives — such as “Medicare for all” and the ambitious Green New Deal — be included in an initial budget blueprint. More moderate Democrats are likely to be just as adamant that they are not. And Mr. Yarmuth appeared to tip his hand when he said that a final budget proposal would probably focus on protecting and restoring elements of the Affordable Care Act, as opposed to endorsing Medicare for all. This spring’s budget will force Democratic leadership to weigh the limitations of divided government against the desires of members who won their seats by promising to shake things up in Washington. In 2011, House Republicans — who also faced a Senate and a White House under the control of the opposing party — lost support from rank-and-file members as they muscled through an ambitious budget devised to limit federal spending. The budget produced by the Budget Committee chairman at the time, Paul D. Ryan, included deep domestic spending cuts and plans to offer voucherlike “premium support” to older Americans to buy private insurance outside Medicare. Democrats used that budget as a political cudgel. Democrats face the same prospects, and they are divided on which policies to enshrine in the blueprint. In an effort to hear a range of perspectives, Mr. Yarmuth has met with the Congressional Progressive Caucus and is scheduled to meet with the Blue Dog Coalition, a group of Democrats who preach fiscal discipline, to discuss the coming budget. Both groups have members on the Budget Committee. “So far, we haven’t run into any huge ideological obstacles to putting together a reasonable budget,” Mr. Yarmuth said. Representative Ro Khanna, a liberal Democrat from California and a member of the committee, said he planned to advocate the inclusion of Medicare for all and other facets of a progressive agenda, as well as rolling back some elements of Republican tax cuts passed under Mr. Trump and President George W. Bush. “We have to make the case for economic growth for progressive policies,” Mr. Khanna said in an interview. Including Medicare for all in the final budget provides an opportunity for Democrats to “explain to the American people that this is going to save average families and the country money.” He acknowledged that it was unlikely that there would be a complete embrace of all of the policies, particularly the Green New Deal’s sweeping plan for tackling climate change and providing jobs, but that should not deter Democrats from including some nods to the broader vision. “That pragmatic vision has to be done side by side with the aspirational one,” he said. Lawmakers also have to contend with a ballooning federal deficit and a looming deadline to address spending caps that Congress put in place under President Barack Obama. While Mr. Trump’s budget proposal technically adheres to the limitations, Mr. Yarmuth said the side were far from an ideal starting point in negotiations. “We’re so far apart in our priorities that we have to wonder if the White House is going to be a serious negotiator, and that’s disturbing,” Mr. Yarmuth said. “But, on the other hand, this is a proposal not unlike the one they submitted last year, and we ultimately came up with a spending agreement.”    Supported by The party is getting more serious about helping both the poor and true middle class. By David Leonhardt Opinion Columnist This article is part of David Leonhardt’s newsletter. You can sign up here to receive it each weekday. The economic plans offered by potential 2020 Democratic presidential candidates are much more targeted at low-income households than Barack Obama’s proposed tax cut in 2008. Pct. of benefits going to each income group Bottom 50% 50th to 90th percentile Top 10% 96% Kamala Harris housing plan 93 Cory Booker housing plan 86 13 Sherrod Brown tax cut S. Brown/Michael Bennet child allowance 77 23 76 24 Kamala Harris tax cut 61 38 Elizabeth Warren child care Obama 2008 tax cut 36 52 12 Pct. of benefits going to each income group Bottom 50% 50th to 90th percentile Top 10% Kamala Harris housing plan 96% 4 Cory Booker housing plan 93 7 Sherrod Brown tax cut 86 13 S. Brown/Michael Bennet child allowance 77 23 Kamala Harris tax cut 76 24 Elizabeth Warren child care 61 38 Obama 2008 tax cut 36 52 12 Sources: Center on Poverty and Social Policy at Columbia University; Moody’s Analytics (Warren plan); Tax Policy Center (Obama plan) By The New York Times I mentioned in my column this week that Democrats seem to be getting more serious about fighting poverty. The chart above helps make that clear.  It shows the percentage of federal dollars that would go to different income groups in the various economic proposals from Democratic presidential candidates and potential candidates. For comparison, you also see a breakdown of the tax plan that Barack Obama proposed when he ran for president in 2008. The pattern is quite clear. This year’s candidates are targeting their plans much more at the bottom half of the income distribution. And they’re calling for less spending that would help the top 10 percent of earners. “Reducing poverty and inequality is developing into a central issue in the conversation around the 2020 presidential election,” note the researchers at Columbia University’s Center on Poverty and Social Policy. [Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.] This approach is consistent with reality: The bottom 90 percent of earners have fared much worse than the top 10 percent in recent decades. For more … Vox’s Dylan Matthews writes that the rent-subsidy plans from Cory Booker and Kamala Harris are “especially well targeted at poor people.” That’s partly because, unlike many other anti-poverty plans, they help those people who don’t have children and who aren’t working, perhaps because they’re disabled or elderly, Matthews explains. Time’s Abby Vesoulis explains the Bennet-Brown child allowance.  Mark Zandi of Moody’s Analytics has analyzed Elizabeth Warren’s child-care plan, which was also the subject of praise from David Plotz on the most recent Slate Political Gabfest (shortly after minute 26:00). Joe Biden seems to be taking steps toward announcing his own presidential campaign, as Hanna Trudo of National Journal reports. Biden said yesterday that he was “very close to getting to a decision” and that his family wants him in: The “most important people in my life want me to run,” he said. If he does, I’ll be interested to see how he plans to take on poverty. Finally, it’s worth saying that the Obama administration did take poverty seriously. Its signature piece of legislation — the Affordable Care Act — was the biggest attack on economic inequality since inequality began rising four decades ago. But the latest round of Democrats are putting even more of an emphasis on fighting poverty and on helping the true middle class (as opposed to the self-identified upper middle class). That’s a welcome development. Michael Cohen day Michael Cohen, Donald Trump’s former lawyer, testifies before Congress today, and it’s sure to be a political spectacle. Will it matter?  On the one hand, many Americans have already made up their minds about Trump, and the testimony of a former aide who’s pleaded guilty to lying under oath isn’t going to change their minds. In National Review, David French makes the case for skepticism about Cohen’s information. “Corroboration is key,” he writes. Cohen’s “credibility increases when he can support his story with documents, with recordings, or even with other witnesses.” On the other hand, Cohen’s testimony is going to paint Trump in an extremely negative light — as a liar, a racist and a criminal conspirator — and will dominate television and social media today. As the political scientist Jonathan Bernstein points out: “Lots of people will be hearing about this stuff for the first time. And sometimes hearing it from a person testifying is different from learning of it from news reports.” If you are not a subscriber to this newsletter, you can subscribe here. You can also join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt • Facebook 

Supported by The party is getting more serious about helping both the poor and true middle class. By David Leonhardt Opinion Columnist This article is part of David Leonhardt’s newsletter. You can sign up here to receive it each weekday. The economic plans offered by potential 2020 Democratic presidential candidates are much more targeted at low-income households than Barack Obama’s proposed tax cut in 2008. Pct. of benefits going to each income group Bottom 50% 50th to 90th percentile Top 10% 96% Kamala Harris housing plan 93 Cory Booker housing plan 86 13 Sherrod Brown tax cut S. Brown/Michael Bennet child allowance 77 23 76 24 Kamala Harris tax cut 61 38 Elizabeth Warren child care Obama 2008 tax cut 36 52 12 Pct. of benefits going to each income group Bottom 50% 50th to 90th percentile Top 10% Kamala Harris housing plan 96% 4 Cory Booker housing plan 93 7 Sherrod Brown tax cut 86 13 S. Brown/Michael Bennet child allowance 77 23 Kamala Harris tax cut 76 24 Elizabeth Warren child care 61 38 Obama 2008 tax cut 36 52 12 Sources: Center on Poverty and Social Policy at Columbia University; Moody’s Analytics (Warren plan); Tax Policy Center (Obama plan) By The New York Times I mentioned in my column this week that Democrats seem to be getting more serious about fighting poverty. The chart above helps make that clear.  It shows the percentage of federal dollars that would go to different income groups in the various economic proposals from Democratic presidential candidates and potential candidates. For comparison, you also see a breakdown of the tax plan that Barack Obama proposed when he ran for president in 2008. The pattern is quite clear. This year’s candidates are targeting their plans much more at the bottom half of the income distribution. And they’re calling for less spending that would help the top 10 percent of earners. “Reducing poverty and inequality is developing into a central issue in the conversation around the 2020 presidential election,” note the researchers at Columbia University’s Center on Poverty and Social Policy. [Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.] This approach is consistent with reality: The bottom 90 percent of earners have fared much worse than the top 10 percent in recent decades. For more … Vox’s Dylan Matthews writes that the rent-subsidy plans from Cory Booker and Kamala Harris are “especially well targeted at poor people.” That’s partly because, unlike many other anti-poverty plans, they help those people who don’t have children and who aren’t working, perhaps because they’re disabled or elderly, Matthews explains. Time’s Abby Vesoulis explains the Bennet-Brown child allowance.  Mark Zandi of Moody’s Analytics has analyzed Elizabeth Warren’s child-care plan, which was also the subject of praise from David Plotz on the most recent Slate Political Gabfest (shortly after minute 26:00). Joe Biden seems to be taking steps toward announcing his own presidential campaign, as Hanna Trudo of National Journal reports. Biden said yesterday that he was “very close to getting to a decision” and that his family wants him in: The “most important people in my life want me to run,” he said. If he does, I’ll be interested to see how he plans to take on poverty. Finally, it’s worth saying that the Obama administration did take poverty seriously. Its signature piece of legislation — the Affordable Care Act — was the biggest attack on economic inequality since inequality began rising four decades ago. But the latest round of Democrats are putting even more of an emphasis on fighting poverty and on helping the true middle class (as opposed to the self-identified upper middle class). That’s a welcome development. Michael Cohen day Michael Cohen, Donald Trump’s former lawyer, testifies before Congress today, and it’s sure to be a political spectacle. Will it matter?  On the one hand, many Americans have already made up their minds about Trump, and the testimony of a former aide who’s pleaded guilty to lying under oath isn’t going to change their minds. In National Review, David French makes the case for skepticism about Cohen’s information. “Corroboration is key,” he writes. Cohen’s “credibility increases when he can support his story with documents, with recordings, or even with other witnesses.” On the other hand, Cohen’s testimony is going to paint Trump in an extremely negative light — as a liar, a racist and a criminal conspirator — and will dominate television and social media today. As the political scientist Jonathan Bernstein points out: “Lots of people will be hearing about this stuff for the first time. And sometimes hearing it from a person testifying is different from learning of it from news reports.” If you are not a subscriber to this newsletter, you can subscribe here. You can also join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt • Facebook Supported by By Erica L. Green WASHINGTON — The last face-to-face meeting between Representative Robert C. Scott and Education Secretary Betsy DeVos ended in an awkward cliffhanger. At a hearing last May of the House Education Committee, Mr. Scott, Democrat of Virginia, challenged the secretary’s assertion that she was holding states accountable for achievement gaps between white and minority students as required by a new federal education law, the Every Student Succeeds Act. Mr. Scott, unconvinced, asked more pointedly: How can you assure us that you are following the law if you do not even make states calculate the performance of the different student groups we want to measure? Ms. DeVos dodged the question. Mr. Scott is now the chairman of the committee, and he is not taking silence or evasion for an answer. With control of the House and Senate divided, and President Trump in charge of the executive branch, the prospects for the House Democrats’ legislative agenda for education may be limited, but their appetite for oversight of the Education Department appears limitless. “One of the problems we had in the minority is we asked a lot of questions that have not been answered,” Mr. Scott said in an interview. “Now that we’re in the majority, we can ask the same questions with the expectation that we’ll get an answer.” On Tuesday, Mr. Scott added to a pile of inquiries stacking up at the department, this time questioning a recent move to replace the Education Department’s acting inspector general, who is investigating Ms. DeVos’s decision to reinstate a troubled accreditor of for-profit colleges and universities. Among other answers he is still waiting for is Ms. DeVos’s justifications for rescinding policies meant to protect black students from being disproportionately suspended and placed in special education and student borrowers from predatory lenders and higher-education diploma mills. Mr. Scott said he is not itching to haul Ms. DeVos and her staff to Capitol Hill hearings to get the answers. “Theater doesn’t advance anybody’s agenda,” Mr. Scott said. “I’m interested in what research and evidence they used to come to these conclusions.” Under the leadership of Representative Virginia Foxx, Republican of North Carolina, the committee passed laws strengthening career and technical education as well as juvenile justice programs. She also proposed an aggressive higher-education bill that gutted regulatory requirements and championed work force training programs. She called on Ms. DeVos to testify only once. Ms. Foxx said she hoped the committee would maintain its bipartisan spirit. “It’s my hope that we exercise our oversight responsibilities by asking the right questions for the right reasons to ensure faithful execution of the laws we’ve written,” she said. Mr. Scott, the first African-American man elected to Congress from Virginia since the 1890s and the third to lead the Education Committee, has outlined a wide-ranging oversight agenda for the committee. Among the issues it plans to examine: the carrying out of the Every Student Succeeds Act and the Individuals With Disabilities Education Act; recommendations from the Federal Commission on School Safety led by Ms. DeVos in response to the mass school shooting last year in Parkland, Fla.; and the department’s role in the rebuilding of schools in Puerto Rico, in the Virgin Islands and in other areas affected by disasters. In the higher-education sector, the committee also plans to scrutinize the department’s administration of financial aid programs. Mr. Scott plans to champion bills that would pump $100 billion into public school infrastructure, limit the use of restraint and seclusion practices of special-education students and increase low-income and minority students’ access to a four-year college or university. But when it comes to oversight, “just asking the questions usually gets people to act,” he said. That approach has gotten results. A recent move by the White House to replace the Education Department’s acting inspector general, Sandra Bruce, was reversed shortly after Mr. Scott, joined by other Democratic leaders, sent a letter to Ms. DeVos questioning the decision. The move, first reported by Politico, revealed the partnership developing between Mr. Scott and Representative Elijah E. Cummings of Maryland, chairman of the House Committee on Oversight and Reform. Mr. Cummings said in a statement that he plans to scrutinize “countless decisions that have negatively impacted students across the country, including dismantling protections against predatory for-profit lenders.” In the letter on Tuesday, Mr. Scott and Mr. Cummings posed a second round of questions to the Education Department about perceived attempts to intervene in the inspector general’s investigation into the secretary’s reinstatement of the Accrediting Council for Independent Colleges and Schools. The accreditor’s recognition was revoked by the Obama administration in 2016 after the collapse of two for-profit chains, ITT Tech and Corinthian Colleges, and a history of failing to comply with federal rules. Ms. DeVos reinstated the agency last year after a judge found that the Obama administration’s decision was “arbitrary and capricious.” According to the Democrats’ letter, Ms. DeVos’s deputy secretary, Mick Zais, wrote to Ms. Bruce in the weeks before her replacement and asked that any investigation of the accreditor include a review of the Obama administration’s actions. “We are concerned that these actions by the Deputy Secretary represent a clear attempt to violate the statutory independence of the OIG,” the Democrats wrote, referring to the Office of Inspector General. Liz Hill, a spokeswoman for the Education Department, said the department “would never seek to undermine the independence of the inspector general.” “For anyone to state otherwise is doing so with no basis in fact and purely for political gain,” she said. Ms. Hill said the Education Department “has been and will continue to be responsive to information requests from Congress,” and that Ms. DeVos has an open invitation to meet one on one with members of both parties. “The secretary will continue to work with lawmakers who share the goal of rethinking education in order to improve opportunities for all students, expand K-12 education options and ensure students have a multitude of pathways to success post-high school,” she said. Ms. DeVos has some ground to make up with Democrats. According to an analysis of Ms. DeVos’s calendar by Education Week, she had more than 130 meetings or phone calls with Republican lawmakers or their top aides in the first year and a half of her tenure compared with about a dozen with Democrats. Representative Rosa DeLauro, Democrat of Connecticut, who will lead the appropriations subcommittee that funds education, said Ms. DeVos is one of the few cabinet secretaries she has not met with. “They’re hell bent to do what they want to do, and think we don’t count for anything,” she said. Ms. DeLauro, who has clashed publicly with Ms. DeVos, said she plans to “hold the secretary accountable for the hollowing out of the Education Department” through staffing and program cuts. She said she will fight recurring proposals to create a $1 billion program to finance vouchers for private and parochial school tuition, cutting after-school programs for low-income students and zeroing out funding for teacher training. Instead, Ms. DeLauro said she wants to champion new investments like community schools and early childhood education. “I believe that, overall, the mission of the Department of Education these days is to privatize public education, and I want to block them,” she said. “On the other hand, I view this as my opportunity to look at how we can provide new opportunities for new people.” Representative Mark Takano of California, the chairman of the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, said he will scrutinize how Ms. DeVos’s proposals to deregulate for-profit colleges could allow for abuses of the G.I. Bill, which provides veterans with tuition assistance for higher education. He recently told a group of college accreditors, “I promise to continue to do my part to crack down on predatory institutions.” When the Democrats took the House, Michael J. Petrilli, the president of the conservative Thomas B. Fordham Institute, urged Ms. DeVos to step down rather than subject herself to “show trials.” Now that Ms. DeVos has shown no signs of resigning, Mr. Petrilli anticipates that Democrats will discover they have limited power and the department will carry on, immune to bad press. “This is a department that doesn’t have much to lose,” he said. An earlier version of this article misstated the name of a legislation. It is the Individuals With Disabilities Education Act, not the Individuals With Disabilities Act.    

Supported by By Erica L. Green WASHINGTON — The last face-to-face meeting between Representative Robert C. Scott and Education Secretary Betsy DeVos ended in an awkward cliffhanger. At a hearing last May of the House Education Committee, Mr. Scott, Democrat of Virginia, challenged the secretary’s assertion that she was holding states accountable for achievement gaps between white and minority students as required by a new federal education law, the Every Student Succeeds Act. Mr. Scott, unconvinced, asked more pointedly: How can you assure us that you are following the law if you do not even make states calculate the performance of the different student groups we want to measure? Ms. DeVos dodged the question. Mr. Scott is now the chairman of the committee, and he is not taking silence or evasion for an answer. With control of the House and Senate divided, and President Trump in charge of the executive branch, the prospects for the House Democrats’ legislative agenda for education may be limited, but their appetite for oversight of the Education Department appears limitless. “One of the problems we had in the minority is we asked a lot of questions that have not been answered,” Mr. Scott said in an interview. “Now that we’re in the majority, we can ask the same questions with the expectation that we’ll get an answer.” On Tuesday, Mr. Scott added to a pile of inquiries stacking up at the department, this time questioning a recent move to replace the Education Department’s acting inspector general, who is investigating Ms. DeVos’s decision to reinstate a troubled accreditor of for-profit colleges and universities. Among other answers he is still waiting for is Ms. DeVos’s justifications for rescinding policies meant to protect black students from being disproportionately suspended and placed in special education and student borrowers from predatory lenders and higher-education diploma mills. Mr. Scott said he is not itching to haul Ms. DeVos and her staff to Capitol Hill hearings to get the answers. “Theater doesn’t advance anybody’s agenda,” Mr. Scott said. “I’m interested in what research and evidence they used to come to these conclusions.” Under the leadership of Representative Virginia Foxx, Republican of North Carolina, the committee passed laws strengthening career and technical education as well as juvenile justice programs. She also proposed an aggressive higher-education bill that gutted regulatory requirements and championed work force training programs. She called on Ms. DeVos to testify only once. Ms. Foxx said she hoped the committee would maintain its bipartisan spirit. “It’s my hope that we exercise our oversight responsibilities by asking the right questions for the right reasons to ensure faithful execution of the laws we’ve written,” she said. Mr. Scott, the first African-American man elected to Congress from Virginia since the 1890s and the third to lead the Education Committee, has outlined a wide-ranging oversight agenda for the committee. Among the issues it plans to examine: the carrying out of the Every Student Succeeds Act and the Individuals With Disabilities Education Act; recommendations from the Federal Commission on School Safety led by Ms. DeVos in response to the mass school shooting last year in Parkland, Fla.; and the department’s role in the rebuilding of schools in Puerto Rico, in the Virgin Islands and in other areas affected by disasters. In the higher-education sector, the committee also plans to scrutinize the department’s administration of financial aid programs. Mr. Scott plans to champion bills that would pump $100 billion into public school infrastructure, limit the use of restraint and seclusion practices of special-education students and increase low-income and minority students’ access to a four-year college or university. But when it comes to oversight, “just asking the questions usually gets people to act,” he said. That approach has gotten results. A recent move by the White House to replace the Education Department’s acting inspector general, Sandra Bruce, was reversed shortly after Mr. Scott, joined by other Democratic leaders, sent a letter to Ms. DeVos questioning the decision. The move, first reported by Politico, revealed the partnership developing between Mr. Scott and Representative Elijah E. Cummings of Maryland, chairman of the House Committee on Oversight and Reform. Mr. Cummings said in a statement that he plans to scrutinize “countless decisions that have negatively impacted students across the country, including dismantling protections against predatory for-profit lenders.” In the letter on Tuesday, Mr. Scott and Mr. Cummings posed a second round of questions to the Education Department about perceived attempts to intervene in the inspector general’s investigation into the secretary’s reinstatement of the Accrediting Council for Independent Colleges and Schools. The accreditor’s recognition was revoked by the Obama administration in 2016 after the collapse of two for-profit chains, ITT Tech and Corinthian Colleges, and a history of failing to comply with federal rules. Ms. DeVos reinstated the agency last year after a judge found that the Obama administration’s decision was “arbitrary and capricious.” According to the Democrats’ letter, Ms. DeVos’s deputy secretary, Mick Zais, wrote to Ms. Bruce in the weeks before her replacement and asked that any investigation of the accreditor include a review of the Obama administration’s actions. “We are concerned that these actions by the Deputy Secretary represent a clear attempt to violate the statutory independence of the OIG,” the Democrats wrote, referring to the Office of Inspector General. Liz Hill, a spokeswoman for the Education Department, said the department “would never seek to undermine the independence of the inspector general.” “For anyone to state otherwise is doing so with no basis in fact and purely for political gain,” she said. Ms. Hill said the Education Department “has been and will continue to be responsive to information requests from Congress,” and that Ms. DeVos has an open invitation to meet one on one with members of both parties. “The secretary will continue to work with lawmakers who share the goal of rethinking education in order to improve opportunities for all students, expand K-12 education options and ensure students have a multitude of pathways to success post-high school,” she said. Ms. DeVos has some ground to make up with Democrats. According to an analysis of Ms. DeVos’s calendar by Education Week, she had more than 130 meetings or phone calls with Republican lawmakers or their top aides in the first year and a half of her tenure compared with about a dozen with Democrats. Representative Rosa DeLauro, Democrat of Connecticut, who will lead the appropriations subcommittee that funds education, said Ms. DeVos is one of the few cabinet secretaries she has not met with. “They’re hell bent to do what they want to do, and think we don’t count for anything,” she said. Ms. DeLauro, who has clashed publicly with Ms. DeVos, said she plans to “hold the secretary accountable for the hollowing out of the Education Department” through staffing and program cuts. She said she will fight recurring proposals to create a $1 billion program to finance vouchers for private and parochial school tuition, cutting after-school programs for low-income students and zeroing out funding for teacher training. Instead, Ms. DeLauro said she wants to champion new investments like community schools and early childhood education. “I believe that, overall, the mission of the Department of Education these days is to privatize public education, and I want to block them,” she said. “On the other hand, I view this as my opportunity to look at how we can provide new opportunities for new people.” Representative Mark Takano of California, the chairman of the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, said he will scrutinize how Ms. DeVos’s proposals to deregulate for-profit colleges could allow for abuses of the G.I. Bill, which provides veterans with tuition assistance for higher education. He recently told a group of college accreditors, “I promise to continue to do my part to crack down on predatory institutions.” When the Democrats took the House, Michael J. Petrilli, the president of the conservative Thomas B. Fordham Institute, urged Ms. DeVos to step down rather than subject herself to “show trials.” Now that Ms. DeVos has shown no signs of resigning, Mr. Petrilli anticipates that Democrats will discover they have limited power and the department will carry on, immune to bad press. “This is a department that doesn’t have much to lose,” he said. An earlier version of this article misstated the name of a legislation. It is the Individuals With Disabilities Education Act, not the Individuals With Disabilities Act.    Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — Top Democrats in the U.S. House of Representatives on Monday demanded documents from the Trump administration over a White House proposal to release migrants from detention and transport them to "sanctuary cities." U.S. media reported on Thursday the administration had considered the idea, which would send migrants and asylum seekers who had crossed the U.S. border with Mexico to districts represented by Democratic lawmakers. The following day, Trump confirmed the proposal, saying in a tweet that he was strongly considering it. Sanctuary cities are local jurisdictions that generally refuse to use their resources to help enforce federal immigration laws against undocumented immigrants that could lead to deportations. The localities say they do not have any responsibility to involve themselves in federal enforcement and doing so could impede policing efforts within communities. Since many of these jurisdictions are represented by Democrats, critics saw the plan as a way to taunt Democrats by dangling the possibility of an influx of illegal immigrants into their communities. In a letter addressed to the White House chief of staff and acting homeland security secretary, the heads of the House Judiciary, Oversight and Homeland Security panels - Representatives Jerry Nadler, Elijah Cummings and Bennie Thompson - called the idea "a bizarre and unlawful attempt to score political points." "Not only does the Administration lack the legal authority to transfer detainees in this manner, it is shocking that the President and senior Administration officials are even considering manipulating release decisions for purely political reasons," the three lawmakers wrote. They set a deadline for the White House, the Department of Homeland Security, and the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency to send communications, documents and memoranda on the subject to the lawmakers by May 3. On Sunday, White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders told ABC News the administration had initially concluded the proposal was too logistically challenging, but the White House was contemplating its options because the president liked the idea. The House has been controlled by a Democratic majority since January, but the Senate remains in the hands of Trump's Republican Party.  Several immigration proposals, including some backed by the White House, failed to receive the necessary number of votes to pass Congress when Republicans controlled both chambers of Congress. U.S. officers arrested or denied entry to more than 103,000 people along the border with Mexico in March, an increase of more than a third over February and more than twice as many as in the same period last year.  (Reporting by Makini Brice; Additional reporting by Doina Chiacu; Editing by Paul Simao)

Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — Top Democrats in the U.S. House of Representatives on Monday demanded documents from the Trump administration over a White House proposal to release migrants from detention and transport them to "sanctuary cities." U.S. media reported on Thursday the administration had considered the idea, which would send migrants and asylum seekers who had crossed the U.S. border with Mexico to districts represented by Democratic lawmakers. The following day, Trump confirmed the proposal, saying in a tweet that he was strongly considering it. Sanctuary cities are local jurisdictions that generally refuse to use their resources to help enforce federal immigration laws against undocumented immigrants that could lead to deportations. The localities say they do not have any responsibility to involve themselves in federal enforcement and doing so could impede policing efforts within communities. Since many of these jurisdictions are represented by Democrats, critics saw the plan as a way to taunt Democrats by dangling the possibility of an influx of illegal immigrants into their communities. In a letter addressed to the White House chief of staff and acting homeland security secretary, the heads of the House Judiciary, Oversight and Homeland Security panels - Representatives Jerry Nadler, Elijah Cummings and Bennie Thompson - called the idea "a bizarre and unlawful attempt to score political points." "Not only does the Administration lack the legal authority to transfer detainees in this manner, it is shocking that the President and senior Administration officials are even considering manipulating release decisions for purely political reasons," the three lawmakers wrote. They set a deadline for the White House, the Department of Homeland Security, and the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency to send communications, documents and memoranda on the subject to the lawmakers by May 3. On Sunday, White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders told ABC News the administration had initially concluded the proposal was too logistically challenging, but the White House was contemplating its options because the president liked the idea. The House has been controlled by a Democratic majority since January, but the Senate remains in the hands of Trump's Republican Party.  Several immigration proposals, including some backed by the White House, failed to receive the necessary number of votes to pass Congress when Republicans controlled both chambers of Congress. U.S. officers arrested or denied entry to more than 103,000 people along the border with Mexico in March, an increase of more than a third over February and more than twice as many as in the same period last year.  (Reporting by Makini Brice; Additional reporting by Doina Chiacu; Editing by Paul Simao)Supported by By Astead W. Herndon Alexandra Rojas was shocked. So was Waleed Shahid. The two vocal leaders of Justice Democrats, an advocacy group whose uncompromising style has made it a nuisance among Washington traditionalists, had a meeting request from aides to Senator Elizabeth Warren, who was fresh into her presidential campaign. As Ms. Warren sought to push the party to the left by proposing expansive liberal policy ideas, her team was prepared to seek counsel from organizations that did the same. “They want us in their court,” Ms. Rojas said. “They know that if they want to win, they need to have the support from the grass-roots energy.” Ms. Warren’s willingness to look outside the traditional pool of political aides underscores the extent to which activism and ideology are shaping the makeup of campaign staffs for Democratic candidates, even at the highest levels. Neither Ms. Rojas nor Mr. Shahid received a job offer, but in a crowded field where candidates are looking to stand out, activists fluent in the language of social movements are gaining value as important allies. Julián Castro hired as his campaign manager Maya Rupert, a campaign novice who made her name in organizing with the Center for Reproductive Rights and the National Center for Lesbian Rights. Senator Bernie Sanders has expanded his close-knit group of strategists and tapped Faiz Shakir, the former political director for the American Civil Liberties Union, to run his new-look presidential campaign. As the primary process kicks into full swing, some Democrats are bypassing the kind of experienced Washington “wiseguys” who operated in the caldron of beltway politics — famous strategists like David Axelrod, James Carville and, more recently, Robby Mook. Instead, campaigns are increasingly filling senior positions with a new generation of activist-driven operatives, whose political formation took place in grass-roots movements. The shift has resulted in greater staff diversity than in previous cycles, but it has also influenced strategy, according to campaign officials. New voices are joining with election-cycle veterans to bring fresh ideas and political approaches to the presidential stage. Mr. Castro, for instance, plans to diverge from the traditional early primary state road map in favor of a tour of all 50 states. Ms. Warren has pledged to eschew all private fund-raising, an unheard-of step in presidential politics that was fueled by her campaign’s chief architect, Dan Geldon, who shares Ms. Warren’s distaste for Wall Street and a willingness to take political risks. [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join our conversation about the 2020 presidential race.] Mr. Sanders is emphasizing his personal biography more and engaging in more explicit discussions of racial inequality. Senator Kamala Harris, the California Democrat who has often relied on a trusted group of California advisers, has taken pains to find senior staff members with grass-roots credentials as she attempts to fashion herself as the candidate “for the people.” “The shifts that we’re seeing in the Democratic Party are a lot of folks demanding that their leadership take ideas that have been considered on the fringe and push them to the center,” said Ms. Rupert, Mr. Castro’s campaign manager. “And that’s the way movements operate.” Mr. Castro’s campaign is also paying its interns a $15 minimum wage and said it would support any effort among staff members to form a union. And Mr. Sanders’s campaign announced last week that its staff would become the first presidential campaign work force to be unionized. Kelly Dietrich, the longtime Democratic consultant, said the surge in Democratic voter enthusiasm since President Trump’s election has helped issue-driven activists become more interested in traditional electoral politics. It has also forced campaigns to take new ideas more seriously, he said. [Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.] “We’re seeing a lot more people across the spectrum, both in terms of diversity and political agenda, step forward and want to make change,” said Mr. Dietrich, who founded a campaign training organization called the National Democratic Training Committee. They are “fed up or scared; they are frustrated and are ready to fight back.” The Democratic Party needs to bring in these activists, Mr. Dietrich said, “so that five years, 10 years, 15 years down the road, this is the norm.” The shift reflects a growing realization among many Democrats that the party’s most fervent energy resides on its left flank. Democrats swept to power in the House in last year’s midterm elections, and the most popular members of the party’s new class are the women of color who pushed the party even further left, empowered by groups including Justice Democrats. Rather than fight that new energy, some 2020 hopefuls have decided to court it. Richard McDaniel, who helped engineer the surprise victory for Senator Doug Jones of Alabama in 2017, joined Ms. Warren’s campaign as field director. Rebecca Pearcey, formerly of the Democratic Legislative Campaign Committee, an organization that works to elect Democrats to state legislatures, was a surprise choice as Ms. Warren’s national political director. In terms of racial diversity, Ms. Harris has led the way, with 12 senior staff members who are women of color, out of 17 total. That includes Julie Chavez Rodriguez, the activist granddaughter of the labor leader Cesar Chavez. Ms. Rodriguez was instrumental in helping Ms. Harris secure the endorsement of Dolores Huerta, the California labor leader who, along with Mr. Chavez, founded the United Farm Workers. Another member of Ms. Harris’s team is Laphonza Butler, the former president of the Service Employees International Union in California. She said activists were more likely to see electoral politics as valuable in this era because of the moral urgency that Mr. Trump’s administration has instilled among liberals. “We’re asking ourselves these really existential questions about what are we going to be as a nation,” said Ms. Butler, who is a senior adviser to Ms. Harris. “And I had to choose how to best continue the work that I’ve been doing as an advocate for workers and a voice for workers — and working for Senator Harris is a continuation of that.” Mr. McDaniel, Ms. Warren’s field director, said the shift had been building since President Barack Obama ushered in an era of internet-driven, grass-roots organizing. “The rule book went out the door with President Obama, kind of, how you engage communities,” Mr. McDaniel said. “It’s old-school tactics, but you need to have a new mind frame of thinking.” But some in the party have warned that the embracing of activists could be more about optics than an actual shift in political power and that the bulk of decision making will still reside with the political strategy firms that have long been influential in electoral politics. Ms. Harris’s campaign, for example, has deep ties to big political names such as the longtime California consultant Averell Smith, the Democratic strategist also known as Ace who helped her orchestrate several campaigns in advance of her presidential run. “The proof will be in the pudding,” said Jess Morales Rocketto, the political director of the National Domestic Workers Alliance and a former staff member on Hillary Clinton’s 2016 campaign. “Like who’s getting to decide the budgets, who’s getting to decide where the candidate goes, who’s getting to decide the targeting? Is that the people of color that they hired?” Ms. Morales Rocketto urged the campaigns to see employees from non-Washington backgrounds as more than just an attempt to “check boxes.” She said one current presidential campaign had explicitly told her recently that it was calling her because it needed a “senior Latina with movement credibility.” “It would be a damn shame if all they did was catch up to the optics,” she added. Heather McGhee, the former president of the progressive advocacy group Demos has not signed onto a 2020 campaign but said she had been contacted personally by Ms. Harris and Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey — though she remains a close ally of Ms. Warren’s. Her counsel was particularly valued after Demos’s political arm published a much-lauded 2018 paper on how candidates should fuse analysis of race and class, a key focus of the progressive message. “To see the soul of the new Democratic Party, you can look to the candidate’s advisers and ask whether they came from activism or professional consultant class,” Ms. McGhee said. One new idea was on display when Ms. Harris held a recent campaign rally in Nevada. During the event, aides passed out headsets to Spanish-speaking residents so that the candidate’s words could be translated in real time, a move widely praised as an effective way to reach new voters in the immigrant-rich West. It came from Ms. Butler, who said it was a “no-brainer” from her time in union organizing.   

Supported by By Astead W. Herndon Alexandra Rojas was shocked. So was Waleed Shahid. The two vocal leaders of Justice Democrats, an advocacy group whose uncompromising style has made it a nuisance among Washington traditionalists, had a meeting request from aides to Senator Elizabeth Warren, who was fresh into her presidential campaign. As Ms. Warren sought to push the party to the left by proposing expansive liberal policy ideas, her team was prepared to seek counsel from organizations that did the same. “They want us in their court,” Ms. Rojas said. “They know that if they want to win, they need to have the support from the grass-roots energy.” Ms. Warren’s willingness to look outside the traditional pool of political aides underscores the extent to which activism and ideology are shaping the makeup of campaign staffs for Democratic candidates, even at the highest levels. Neither Ms. Rojas nor Mr. Shahid received a job offer, but in a crowded field where candidates are looking to stand out, activists fluent in the language of social movements are gaining value as important allies. Julián Castro hired as his campaign manager Maya Rupert, a campaign novice who made her name in organizing with the Center for Reproductive Rights and the National Center for Lesbian Rights. Senator Bernie Sanders has expanded his close-knit group of strategists and tapped Faiz Shakir, the former political director for the American Civil Liberties Union, to run his new-look presidential campaign. As the primary process kicks into full swing, some Democrats are bypassing the kind of experienced Washington “wiseguys” who operated in the caldron of beltway politics — famous strategists like David Axelrod, James Carville and, more recently, Robby Mook. Instead, campaigns are increasingly filling senior positions with a new generation of activist-driven operatives, whose political formation took place in grass-roots movements. The shift has resulted in greater staff diversity than in previous cycles, but it has also influenced strategy, according to campaign officials. New voices are joining with election-cycle veterans to bring fresh ideas and political approaches to the presidential stage. Mr. Castro, for instance, plans to diverge from the traditional early primary state road map in favor of a tour of all 50 states. Ms. Warren has pledged to eschew all private fund-raising, an unheard-of step in presidential politics that was fueled by her campaign’s chief architect, Dan Geldon, who shares Ms. Warren’s distaste for Wall Street and a willingness to take political risks. [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join our conversation about the 2020 presidential race.] Mr. Sanders is emphasizing his personal biography more and engaging in more explicit discussions of racial inequality. Senator Kamala Harris, the California Democrat who has often relied on a trusted group of California advisers, has taken pains to find senior staff members with grass-roots credentials as she attempts to fashion herself as the candidate “for the people.” “The shifts that we’re seeing in the Democratic Party are a lot of folks demanding that their leadership take ideas that have been considered on the fringe and push them to the center,” said Ms. Rupert, Mr. Castro’s campaign manager. “And that’s the way movements operate.” Mr. Castro’s campaign is also paying its interns a $15 minimum wage and said it would support any effort among staff members to form a union. And Mr. Sanders’s campaign announced last week that its staff would become the first presidential campaign work force to be unionized. Kelly Dietrich, the longtime Democratic consultant, said the surge in Democratic voter enthusiasm since President Trump’s election has helped issue-driven activists become more interested in traditional electoral politics. It has also forced campaigns to take new ideas more seriously, he said. [Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.] “We’re seeing a lot more people across the spectrum, both in terms of diversity and political agenda, step forward and want to make change,” said Mr. Dietrich, who founded a campaign training organization called the National Democratic Training Committee. They are “fed up or scared; they are frustrated and are ready to fight back.” The Democratic Party needs to bring in these activists, Mr. Dietrich said, “so that five years, 10 years, 15 years down the road, this is the norm.” The shift reflects a growing realization among many Democrats that the party’s most fervent energy resides on its left flank. Democrats swept to power in the House in last year’s midterm elections, and the most popular members of the party’s new class are the women of color who pushed the party even further left, empowered by groups including Justice Democrats. Rather than fight that new energy, some 2020 hopefuls have decided to court it. Richard McDaniel, who helped engineer the surprise victory for Senator Doug Jones of Alabama in 2017, joined Ms. Warren’s campaign as field director. Rebecca Pearcey, formerly of the Democratic Legislative Campaign Committee, an organization that works to elect Democrats to state legislatures, was a surprise choice as Ms. Warren’s national political director. In terms of racial diversity, Ms. Harris has led the way, with 12 senior staff members who are women of color, out of 17 total. That includes Julie Chavez Rodriguez, the activist granddaughter of the labor leader Cesar Chavez. Ms. Rodriguez was instrumental in helping Ms. Harris secure the endorsement of Dolores Huerta, the California labor leader who, along with Mr. Chavez, founded the United Farm Workers. Another member of Ms. Harris’s team is Laphonza Butler, the former president of the Service Employees International Union in California. She said activists were more likely to see electoral politics as valuable in this era because of the moral urgency that Mr. Trump’s administration has instilled among liberals. “We’re asking ourselves these really existential questions about what are we going to be as a nation,” said Ms. Butler, who is a senior adviser to Ms. Harris. “And I had to choose how to best continue the work that I’ve been doing as an advocate for workers and a voice for workers — and working for Senator Harris is a continuation of that.” Mr. McDaniel, Ms. Warren’s field director, said the shift had been building since President Barack Obama ushered in an era of internet-driven, grass-roots organizing. “The rule book went out the door with President Obama, kind of, how you engage communities,” Mr. McDaniel said. “It’s old-school tactics, but you need to have a new mind frame of thinking.” But some in the party have warned that the embracing of activists could be more about optics than an actual shift in political power and that the bulk of decision making will still reside with the political strategy firms that have long been influential in electoral politics. Ms. Harris’s campaign, for example, has deep ties to big political names such as the longtime California consultant Averell Smith, the Democratic strategist also known as Ace who helped her orchestrate several campaigns in advance of her presidential run. “The proof will be in the pudding,” said Jess Morales Rocketto, the political director of the National Domestic Workers Alliance and a former staff member on Hillary Clinton’s 2016 campaign. “Like who’s getting to decide the budgets, who’s getting to decide where the candidate goes, who’s getting to decide the targeting? Is that the people of color that they hired?” Ms. Morales Rocketto urged the campaigns to see employees from non-Washington backgrounds as more than just an attempt to “check boxes.” She said one current presidential campaign had explicitly told her recently that it was calling her because it needed a “senior Latina with movement credibility.” “It would be a damn shame if all they did was catch up to the optics,” she added. Heather McGhee, the former president of the progressive advocacy group Demos has not signed onto a 2020 campaign but said she had been contacted personally by Ms. Harris and Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey — though she remains a close ally of Ms. Warren’s. Her counsel was particularly valued after Demos’s political arm published a much-lauded 2018 paper on how candidates should fuse analysis of race and class, a key focus of the progressive message. “To see the soul of the new Democratic Party, you can look to the candidate’s advisers and ask whether they came from activism or professional consultant class,” Ms. McGhee said. One new idea was on display when Ms. Harris held a recent campaign rally in Nevada. During the event, aides passed out headsets to Spanish-speaking residents so that the candidate’s words could be translated in real time, a move widely praised as an effective way to reach new voters in the immigrant-rich West. It came from Ms. Butler, who said it was a “no-brainer” from her time in union organizing.   Supported by By Sydney Ember When House Speaker Nancy Pelosi introduced legislation this week to strengthen the Affordable Care Act, Democrats across the ideological spectrum were quick to express their support: moderates, liberals, even Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, the often uncompromising progressive freshman. But not Bernie Sanders. When asked on Tuesday night whether he, too, supported the House bill, Mr. Sanders was defiant. “No,” he said tersely. “No,” he said again, when pressed. “The incremental reform that I support is phasing in ‘Medicare for all.’” Mr. Sanders, the independent senator from Vermont, is not one to compromise on his long-held policy positions, especially his signature stance on health care, though he has, in fact, supported non-“Medicare for all” legislation in the past, including backing a 2017 bill to allow people to buy into state Medicaid plans. Yet more than a month into his second presidential bid, his response underscored, once again, his willingness to stand apart from a party he has not joined but hopes to helm. [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] His reply on Ms. Pelosi’s bill also afforded him momentary distance from ideologically similar rivals, including Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, who on Wednesday tweeted out her own support for the Affordable Care Act. Mr. Sanders’s unflinching position is a reminder to voters that he is unabashedly left-wing and unlikely to worry about working within the confines of the existing system anytime soon. It also reflects a schism within the Democratic Party over the best way to recapture power in Washington: Should Democrats project big, bold policy ideas that could fundamentally alter the political structure but face long odds in a hyperpartisan Congress? Or should they present incremental measures that are more likely to appeal to the center and could succeed sooner? Some candidates, including Ms. Warren, are hoping they can bridge the gap and do both. Others are betting that there is a following for within-the-system politics. Candidates like Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota and Beto O’Rourke, the former congressman from Texas, have spent the early days of their campaigns highlighting their common-ground legislation with Republican colleagues, and former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., expected to enter the race next month, wears his bipartisanship like a badge of honor. It is a debate that has raged within the party since before the midterm elections last year, with some strategists suggesting that bold, disruptive ideas like the ones championed by Mr. Sanders electrify voters and spur them to the polls. “Whoever is president next just can’t make incremental change,” said Karine Jean-Pierre, a senior adviser to the progressive political organizing group MoveOn.org, who worked on President Barack Obama’s 2008 and 2012 campaigns. “We just have to be bold, and we have to take chances — people are hurting. We need to move forward in a big way.” [Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.] Others, however, argue that candidates should offer a vision of political compromise and deliberate change, a line of thinking that seemed to have taken hold anew this week. The day after Ms. Pelosi put forth — and Mr. Sanders rejected — her health care proposal, she introduced a plan to combat climate change inspired by, but far more modest than, the sprawling resolution known as the Green New Deal. (The Green New Deal proposal, which aims to fight climate change as well as address societal problems including income and racial inequality, has garnered qualified support among some Democrats, including Mr. Sanders and other 2020 candidates. But Democrats voted “present” on a motion in the Senate this week to consider the plan, calling the vote a political ploy by Republicans. It failed, 0 to 57.) Mr. Sanders’s campaign said he was not available to comment for this article. Even as Mr. Sanders remained firmly rooted on the left, two presidential candidates rolled out policy proposals this week that seemed more palatable than revolutionary. Ms. Klobuchar, who has been more circumspect in her policy positions than some of her opponents, introduced a plan on Thursday that called for a trillion dollars in federal funds to upgrade the country’s infrastructure, an issue that her aides say has broad bipartisan appeal. Senator Kamala Harris of California announced a plan to invest federal money into teacher pay. Under the proposal, her campaign said, the average teacher in America would receive a $13,500 pay increase. Other candidates have also balked at promoting attention-getting proposals that would fundamentally remake existing policies, even when they broadly support them. During a town hall-style forum on Wednesday night, Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey called the current health care system “broken” and said he believed the country should have “Medicare for all.” But he also said, “We have to show a pathway to get there through practical things” that included lowering drug prices, a policy that even some Republicans have embraced. A recent NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll showed that 55 percent of Democratic primary voters preferred a candidate who “proposes larger-scale policies that cost more and might be harder to pass into law, but could bring major change on these issues”; 42 percent said they preferred someone who “proposes smaller-scale policies” that would “bring less change.” Mr. Sanders is not the only candidate with bold, agenda-setting policy plans. Ms. Warren, for example, has proposed levying an annual tax on the superwealthy and breaking up technology giants like Amazon and Facebook. But among moderates in the party, the notion that candidates have to be daring to capture the nomination is anathema. “The path to the White House and to majorities has to be in a pragmatic, progressive area,” said Jim Kessler, executive vice president for policy at Third Way, a center-left think tank. “If you go too far left, Donald Trump gets re-elected and Republicans control both houses of Congress.” “Our heads are in the clouds, but our feet are also on the ground at the same time,” he added. He cited his group’s universal health care plan, which he said was “just as ambitious” as Mr. Sanders’s proposed “Medicare for all.” There was, however, a key difference. “It just doesn’t blow up the system,” Mr. Kessler said. “It builds on the existing system.”   

Supported by By Sydney Ember When House Speaker Nancy Pelosi introduced legislation this week to strengthen the Affordable Care Act, Democrats across the ideological spectrum were quick to express their support: moderates, liberals, even Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, the often uncompromising progressive freshman. But not Bernie Sanders. When asked on Tuesday night whether he, too, supported the House bill, Mr. Sanders was defiant. “No,” he said tersely. “No,” he said again, when pressed. “The incremental reform that I support is phasing in ‘Medicare for all.’” Mr. Sanders, the independent senator from Vermont, is not one to compromise on his long-held policy positions, especially his signature stance on health care, though he has, in fact, supported non-“Medicare for all” legislation in the past, including backing a 2017 bill to allow people to buy into state Medicaid plans. Yet more than a month into his second presidential bid, his response underscored, once again, his willingness to stand apart from a party he has not joined but hopes to helm. [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] His reply on Ms. Pelosi’s bill also afforded him momentary distance from ideologically similar rivals, including Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, who on Wednesday tweeted out her own support for the Affordable Care Act. Mr. Sanders’s unflinching position is a reminder to voters that he is unabashedly left-wing and unlikely to worry about working within the confines of the existing system anytime soon. It also reflects a schism within the Democratic Party over the best way to recapture power in Washington: Should Democrats project big, bold policy ideas that could fundamentally alter the political structure but face long odds in a hyperpartisan Congress? Or should they present incremental measures that are more likely to appeal to the center and could succeed sooner? Some candidates, including Ms. Warren, are hoping they can bridge the gap and do both. Others are betting that there is a following for within-the-system politics. Candidates like Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota and Beto O’Rourke, the former congressman from Texas, have spent the early days of their campaigns highlighting their common-ground legislation with Republican colleagues, and former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., expected to enter the race next month, wears his bipartisanship like a badge of honor. It is a debate that has raged within the party since before the midterm elections last year, with some strategists suggesting that bold, disruptive ideas like the ones championed by Mr. Sanders electrify voters and spur them to the polls. “Whoever is president next just can’t make incremental change,” said Karine Jean-Pierre, a senior adviser to the progressive political organizing group MoveOn.org, who worked on President Barack Obama’s 2008 and 2012 campaigns. “We just have to be bold, and we have to take chances — people are hurting. We need to move forward in a big way.” [Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.] Others, however, argue that candidates should offer a vision of political compromise and deliberate change, a line of thinking that seemed to have taken hold anew this week. The day after Ms. Pelosi put forth — and Mr. Sanders rejected — her health care proposal, she introduced a plan to combat climate change inspired by, but far more modest than, the sprawling resolution known as the Green New Deal. (The Green New Deal proposal, which aims to fight climate change as well as address societal problems including income and racial inequality, has garnered qualified support among some Democrats, including Mr. Sanders and other 2020 candidates. But Democrats voted “present” on a motion in the Senate this week to consider the plan, calling the vote a political ploy by Republicans. It failed, 0 to 57.) Mr. Sanders’s campaign said he was not available to comment for this article. Even as Mr. Sanders remained firmly rooted on the left, two presidential candidates rolled out policy proposals this week that seemed more palatable than revolutionary. Ms. Klobuchar, who has been more circumspect in her policy positions than some of her opponents, introduced a plan on Thursday that called for a trillion dollars in federal funds to upgrade the country’s infrastructure, an issue that her aides say has broad bipartisan appeal. Senator Kamala Harris of California announced a plan to invest federal money into teacher pay. Under the proposal, her campaign said, the average teacher in America would receive a $13,500 pay increase. Other candidates have also balked at promoting attention-getting proposals that would fundamentally remake existing policies, even when they broadly support them. During a town hall-style forum on Wednesday night, Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey called the current health care system “broken” and said he believed the country should have “Medicare for all.” But he also said, “We have to show a pathway to get there through practical things” that included lowering drug prices, a policy that even some Republicans have embraced. A recent NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll showed that 55 percent of Democratic primary voters preferred a candidate who “proposes larger-scale policies that cost more and might be harder to pass into law, but could bring major change on these issues”; 42 percent said they preferred someone who “proposes smaller-scale policies” that would “bring less change.” Mr. Sanders is not the only candidate with bold, agenda-setting policy plans. Ms. Warren, for example, has proposed levying an annual tax on the superwealthy and breaking up technology giants like Amazon and Facebook. But among moderates in the party, the notion that candidates have to be daring to capture the nomination is anathema. “The path to the White House and to majorities has to be in a pragmatic, progressive area,” said Jim Kessler, executive vice president for policy at Third Way, a center-left think tank. “If you go too far left, Donald Trump gets re-elected and Republicans control both houses of Congress.” “Our heads are in the clouds, but our feet are also on the ground at the same time,” he added. He cited his group’s universal health care plan, which he said was “just as ambitious” as Mr. Sanders’s proposed “Medicare for all.” There was, however, a key difference. “It just doesn’t blow up the system,” Mr. Kessler said. “It builds on the existing system.”   Supported by By Kenneth P. Vogel WASHINGTON — Senate Republicans on Wednesday narrowly staved off an effort by Democrats to deal the Trump administration’s Russia sanctions policy an embarrassing rebuke. Eleven Republicans joined Democrats in a vote to enforce sanctions against the corporate empire of an influential ally of President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, but the effort fell three votes short of the 60-vote threshold required to advance the measure. The vote was 57-42, with one Democratic senator not voting. The sanctions against companies controlled by the influential oligarch, Oleg V. Deripaska, now seem destined to be lifted this week as part of a deal negotiated by the Treasury Department to reduce Mr. Deripaska’s ownership and control of the aluminum giant Rusal and two linked companies. Sanctions against Mr. Deripaska personally, which had gone into effect last April, remain in force and would not have been affected by the Treasury Department decision or the Senate measure. Mr. Deripaska’s companies waged an aggressive lobbying and legal campaign against the sanctions last year. The administration first delayed putting sanctions on the companies into effect and then announced last month it would lift them entirely. The Republicans who voted against the administration plan were adhering to what had once been party orthodoxy: taking a hard line against Moscow. The Republicans who voted in favor of lifting the sanctions did so at a time when President Trump’s warmer stance toward Russia has inflamed questions about the Kremlin’s efforts to help elect him. Democrats had argued that the deal announced last month between the Treasury Department and Mr. Deripaska’s companies amounted to letting Russia off easy at a moment when serious questions remained about the relationship between Mr. Trump, his team and Russia. Democrats had urged the administration to delay its decision on the fate of the sanctions until the conclusion of the investigation by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, into Russian meddling on behalf of Mr. Trump in the 2016 election, and whether Mr. Trump’s team assisted the Russians. Mr. Deripaska has emerged as a bit character in the story lines around the investigation as a result of his relationship with Paul Manafort, Mr. Trump’s former campaign chairman, who has been convicted and pleaded guilty to charges brought by Mr. Mueller’s team. The sanctions were announced by the Treasury Department last April on Mr. Deripaska, his companies and those of other Russian oligarchs in retaliation for the Russian meddling in the presidential election. The announcement was heralded as evidence that the administration was taking a tough stance against Moscow. Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury Secretary, and Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, had argued that the deal to lift the sanctions penalized Mr. Deripaska personally, while avoiding unintended economic ripple effects that could damage companies in the United States, Europe, Jamaica, Guinea and elsewhere by disrupting the supply of aluminum. Mr. Mnuchin had defended the deal in meetings with lawmakers, and Mr. McConnell on the floor of the Senate accused Democrats of politicizing the sanctions on Tuesday. Eleven Republican senators voted with Democrats on a procedural vote on Tuesday to advance the measure, which cleared a 51-vote threshold, setting up Wednesday’s vote, which required 60 votes to keep the legislation alive. The same Republicans supported the measure again on Wednesday. The Republican senators who voted with Democrats were John Boozman of Arkansas; Susan Collins of Maine; Tom Cotton of Arkansas; Steve Daines of Montana; Cory Gardner of Colorado; Josh Hawley of Missouri; John Kennedy of Louisiana; Martha McSally of Arizona; Jerry Moran of Kansas; Marco Rubio of Florida; and Ben Sasse of Nebraska.   

Supported by By Kenneth P. Vogel WASHINGTON — Senate Republicans on Wednesday narrowly staved off an effort by Democrats to deal the Trump administration’s Russia sanctions policy an embarrassing rebuke. Eleven Republicans joined Democrats in a vote to enforce sanctions against the corporate empire of an influential ally of President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, but the effort fell three votes short of the 60-vote threshold required to advance the measure. The vote was 57-42, with one Democratic senator not voting. The sanctions against companies controlled by the influential oligarch, Oleg V. Deripaska, now seem destined to be lifted this week as part of a deal negotiated by the Treasury Department to reduce Mr. Deripaska’s ownership and control of the aluminum giant Rusal and two linked companies. Sanctions against Mr. Deripaska personally, which had gone into effect last April, remain in force and would not have been affected by the Treasury Department decision or the Senate measure. Mr. Deripaska’s companies waged an aggressive lobbying and legal campaign against the sanctions last year. The administration first delayed putting sanctions on the companies into effect and then announced last month it would lift them entirely. The Republicans who voted against the administration plan were adhering to what had once been party orthodoxy: taking a hard line against Moscow. The Republicans who voted in favor of lifting the sanctions did so at a time when President Trump’s warmer stance toward Russia has inflamed questions about the Kremlin’s efforts to help elect him. Democrats had argued that the deal announced last month between the Treasury Department and Mr. Deripaska’s companies amounted to letting Russia off easy at a moment when serious questions remained about the relationship between Mr. Trump, his team and Russia. Democrats had urged the administration to delay its decision on the fate of the sanctions until the conclusion of the investigation by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, into Russian meddling on behalf of Mr. Trump in the 2016 election, and whether Mr. Trump’s team assisted the Russians. Mr. Deripaska has emerged as a bit character in the story lines around the investigation as a result of his relationship with Paul Manafort, Mr. Trump’s former campaign chairman, who has been convicted and pleaded guilty to charges brought by Mr. Mueller’s team. The sanctions were announced by the Treasury Department last April on Mr. Deripaska, his companies and those of other Russian oligarchs in retaliation for the Russian meddling in the presidential election. The announcement was heralded as evidence that the administration was taking a tough stance against Moscow. Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury Secretary, and Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, had argued that the deal to lift the sanctions penalized Mr. Deripaska personally, while avoiding unintended economic ripple effects that could damage companies in the United States, Europe, Jamaica, Guinea and elsewhere by disrupting the supply of aluminum. Mr. Mnuchin had defended the deal in meetings with lawmakers, and Mr. McConnell on the floor of the Senate accused Democrats of politicizing the sanctions on Tuesday. Eleven Republican senators voted with Democrats on a procedural vote on Tuesday to advance the measure, which cleared a 51-vote threshold, setting up Wednesday’s vote, which required 60 votes to keep the legislation alive. The same Republicans supported the measure again on Wednesday. The Republican senators who voted with Democrats were John Boozman of Arkansas; Susan Collins of Maine; Tom Cotton of Arkansas; Steve Daines of Montana; Cory Gardner of Colorado; Josh Hawley of Missouri; John Kennedy of Louisiana; Martha McSally of Arizona; Jerry Moran of Kansas; Marco Rubio of Florida; and Ben Sasse of Nebraska.   Supported by By Glenn Thrush WASHINGTON — Democrats hoped to put their wrenching intraparty debate over anti-Semitism to rest when they passed a catchall antibigotry resolution in the House this month, but Senate Republicans, eager to court American Jews outraged by the rise of anti-Semitism, have other plans. Mitch McConnell, the Republican leader in the Senate, is backing two new bills timed to be trumpeted at this week’s annual meeting in Washington of the largest pro-Israel advocacy group, the American Israel Public Affairs Committee. Mr. McConnell has already passed a measure this year giving local and state governments the authority to break ties with companies that boycott or divest from Israel. The actions are part of a larger political strategy aimed, in part, at showing that Republicans are more willing to directly tackle anti-Semitic hate speech and anti-Israel language than divided Democrats in the lower chamber, Republican aides and operatives said. But hate speech has hardly been a longtime cause célèbre for the Republican Party, whose members have opposed efforts to expand similar protections to victims of discrimination based on gender and sexual orientation. One measure, a “sense of the Senate” resolution, is intended as a direct rebuke of comments made by Representative Ilhan Omar, Democrat of Minnesota, who suggested that some American Jews had dual loyalties to both Israel and the United States. The bill, sponsored by Senator Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, could reach the floor as early as this week, leadership aides said, and is likely to be passed unanimously or with only minimal opposition. The centerpiece of the resolution is the declaration that “anti-Semitism has for hundreds of years included attacks on the loyalty of Jews.” A draft circulated in the Senate also links the dual loyalty charge to the “circulation of the Protocols of the Elders of Zion by the secret police of Russia,” a reference to a fabricated early-20th century document intended to whip up anti-Semitism by purporting to show a Jewish plot for global domination. Senate Republicans have not always been so enthusiastic about toughening anti-discrimination enforcement. Efforts by Democrats during the Obama administration to pass the Matthew Shepard and James Byrd Jr. Hate Crimes Prevention Act, which added gender, sexual orientation and disability to the list of federally recognized hate crimes, were initially blocked by Republicans, led by Jeff Sessions, then a senator and later Mr. Trump’s first attorney general. The measure eventually passed in 2009, but only five Senate Republicans voted yes. Mr. McConnell and many members of his current leadership team opposed it. The sense of the Senate measure is intended as a challenge to Ms. Omar, although her name was intentionally omitted from the text to attract Democrats who might otherwise object, according to an aide involved in the drafting process. “It’s absolutely critical for the United States Senate to stand up, speak with one voice and condemn” anti-Semitism, said Billy Gribbin, a spokesman for Mr. Cruz. A second, less drastic bill — a bipartisan effort to target anti-Semitism on college campuses through the Education Department’s civil rights enforcement division — poses a far more substantial political threat to Democrats trying to move quickly past the dust-up over Ms. Omar. The Anti-Semitism Awareness Act, which is working its way through committee, is likely to pass the Senate this year, and could force Speaker Nancy Pelosi into the uncomfortable position of brokering another deal between progressives and Jewish Democrats at a time when she wants the chamber to focus on presenting unified opposition to President Trump. The measure, co-sponsored by Senator Tim Scott, Republican of South Carolina, and Senator Bob Casey, Democrat of Pennsylvania, passed the Senate in 2016 with bipartisan support. But it quickly stalled in the House, which was then controlled by Republicans, and attracted the opposition of many civil liberties groups that believe it threatens free speech on campuses. The bill broadly defines anti-Semitism as “harassment on the basis of actual or perceived shared ancestry or ethnic characteristics with a religious group” and also targets “discriminatory anti-Israel conduct that crosses the line into anti-Semitism.” Under the measure, the Education Department would be required to investigate and possibly penalize universities that receive federal aid if they failed to crack down on incidents, using the same process laid out under Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which has historically been used to deal with discrimination based on race. Ms. Pelosi has not said whether she would support the bill if it passed the Senate, and a spokeswoman declined to comment. A House leadership aide, speaking on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized publicly, said the bill was likely to draw extended scrutiny in House committees before — or if — it was ever considered on the floor. It is not clear how Ms. Omar and other progressives would vote on the measure, although similar efforts have attracted opposition on the basis of objections by the American Civil Liberties Union and progressive Jewish groups. “This legislation appears designed less to combat anti-Semitism than to have a chilling effect and to crack down on campus critics of Israel,” Jeremy Ben-Ami, the president of J Street, a liberal advocacy group that has been sharply critical of Israel’s government under Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, said in a text message. “It’s misguided to legislatively declare a broad range of nonviolent campus criticism of Israel as anti-Semitism, especially at a time when the prime driver of anti-Semitism is the xenophobic, white nationalist far-right,” he said. “This bill is part of a cynical effort by some of its right-wing proponents to turn the issue of anti-Semitism into a partisan political weapon.” But in the past, the bill has had widespread support among lawmakers in both parties, and it has the backing of Aipac and the Anti-Defamation League. It also has the support of a powerful outside advocate: David Krone, the hard-driving former chief of staff to Harry Reid, the former Senate Democratic leader, who has used his contacts in the party to push the measure for several years in response to a wave of anti-Semitism on college campuses. “I find great irony in what Congresswoman Omar said about the issue of Jews and dual loyalty,” Mr. Krone said in an interview. “I am certain that she found the whole birther movement disgusting, vile and flat-out racist. I agree. It was abhorrent to question the loyalty of President Obama. But how, on one hand, can she say it is wrong about people questioning President Obama’s loyalties, but on the other hand, question mine as a Jew? What she said and what some stupid birther said are equally idiotic.” Ms. Omar’s spokesman did not immediately return a request for comment. Top Democrats are hardly ready to cede support of Israel to Republicans. Representative Steny H. Hoyer, the Democratic leader, gave a rousing defense of the American-Israeli relationship at the Aipac conference Sunday evening, promising to push for a resolution that opposes the boycott Israel movement. Without naming her, he took several jabs at Ms. Omar. “Ladies and gentlemen, when someone accuses American supporters of dual loyalty, I say: Accuse me.” Mr. Hoyer declared. And he also took a shot at two other freshman Democrats who are critical of Israel, Representatives Rashida Tlaib of Michigan and Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York: “By the way, there are 62 freshman Democrats. You hear me? Sixty-two, not three.” Sheryl Gay Stolberg contributed reporting.

Supported by By Glenn Thrush WASHINGTON — Democrats hoped to put their wrenching intraparty debate over anti-Semitism to rest when they passed a catchall antibigotry resolution in the House this month, but Senate Republicans, eager to court American Jews outraged by the rise of anti-Semitism, have other plans. Mitch McConnell, the Republican leader in the Senate, is backing two new bills timed to be trumpeted at this week’s annual meeting in Washington of the largest pro-Israel advocacy group, the American Israel Public Affairs Committee. Mr. McConnell has already passed a measure this year giving local and state governments the authority to break ties with companies that boycott or divest from Israel. The actions are part of a larger political strategy aimed, in part, at showing that Republicans are more willing to directly tackle anti-Semitic hate speech and anti-Israel language than divided Democrats in the lower chamber, Republican aides and operatives said. But hate speech has hardly been a longtime cause célèbre for the Republican Party, whose members have opposed efforts to expand similar protections to victims of discrimination based on gender and sexual orientation. One measure, a “sense of the Senate” resolution, is intended as a direct rebuke of comments made by Representative Ilhan Omar, Democrat of Minnesota, who suggested that some American Jews had dual loyalties to both Israel and the United States. The bill, sponsored by Senator Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, could reach the floor as early as this week, leadership aides said, and is likely to be passed unanimously or with only minimal opposition. The centerpiece of the resolution is the declaration that “anti-Semitism has for hundreds of years included attacks on the loyalty of Jews.” A draft circulated in the Senate also links the dual loyalty charge to the “circulation of the Protocols of the Elders of Zion by the secret police of Russia,” a reference to a fabricated early-20th century document intended to whip up anti-Semitism by purporting to show a Jewish plot for global domination. Senate Republicans have not always been so enthusiastic about toughening anti-discrimination enforcement. Efforts by Democrats during the Obama administration to pass the Matthew Shepard and James Byrd Jr. Hate Crimes Prevention Act, which added gender, sexual orientation and disability to the list of federally recognized hate crimes, were initially blocked by Republicans, led by Jeff Sessions, then a senator and later Mr. Trump’s first attorney general. The measure eventually passed in 2009, but only five Senate Republicans voted yes. Mr. McConnell and many members of his current leadership team opposed it. The sense of the Senate measure is intended as a challenge to Ms. Omar, although her name was intentionally omitted from the text to attract Democrats who might otherwise object, according to an aide involved in the drafting process. “It’s absolutely critical for the United States Senate to stand up, speak with one voice and condemn” anti-Semitism, said Billy Gribbin, a spokesman for Mr. Cruz. A second, less drastic bill — a bipartisan effort to target anti-Semitism on college campuses through the Education Department’s civil rights enforcement division — poses a far more substantial political threat to Democrats trying to move quickly past the dust-up over Ms. Omar. The Anti-Semitism Awareness Act, which is working its way through committee, is likely to pass the Senate this year, and could force Speaker Nancy Pelosi into the uncomfortable position of brokering another deal between progressives and Jewish Democrats at a time when she wants the chamber to focus on presenting unified opposition to President Trump. The measure, co-sponsored by Senator Tim Scott, Republican of South Carolina, and Senator Bob Casey, Democrat of Pennsylvania, passed the Senate in 2016 with bipartisan support. But it quickly stalled in the House, which was then controlled by Republicans, and attracted the opposition of many civil liberties groups that believe it threatens free speech on campuses. The bill broadly defines anti-Semitism as “harassment on the basis of actual or perceived shared ancestry or ethnic characteristics with a religious group” and also targets “discriminatory anti-Israel conduct that crosses the line into anti-Semitism.” Under the measure, the Education Department would be required to investigate and possibly penalize universities that receive federal aid if they failed to crack down on incidents, using the same process laid out under Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which has historically been used to deal with discrimination based on race. Ms. Pelosi has not said whether she would support the bill if it passed the Senate, and a spokeswoman declined to comment. A House leadership aide, speaking on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized publicly, said the bill was likely to draw extended scrutiny in House committees before — or if — it was ever considered on the floor. It is not clear how Ms. Omar and other progressives would vote on the measure, although similar efforts have attracted opposition on the basis of objections by the American Civil Liberties Union and progressive Jewish groups. “This legislation appears designed less to combat anti-Semitism than to have a chilling effect and to crack down on campus critics of Israel,” Jeremy Ben-Ami, the president of J Street, a liberal advocacy group that has been sharply critical of Israel’s government under Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, said in a text message. “It’s misguided to legislatively declare a broad range of nonviolent campus criticism of Israel as anti-Semitism, especially at a time when the prime driver of anti-Semitism is the xenophobic, white nationalist far-right,” he said. “This bill is part of a cynical effort by some of its right-wing proponents to turn the issue of anti-Semitism into a partisan political weapon.” But in the past, the bill has had widespread support among lawmakers in both parties, and it has the backing of Aipac and the Anti-Defamation League. It also has the support of a powerful outside advocate: David Krone, the hard-driving former chief of staff to Harry Reid, the former Senate Democratic leader, who has used his contacts in the party to push the measure for several years in response to a wave of anti-Semitism on college campuses. “I find great irony in what Congresswoman Omar said about the issue of Jews and dual loyalty,” Mr. Krone said in an interview. “I am certain that she found the whole birther movement disgusting, vile and flat-out racist. I agree. It was abhorrent to question the loyalty of President Obama. But how, on one hand, can she say it is wrong about people questioning President Obama’s loyalties, but on the other hand, question mine as a Jew? What she said and what some stupid birther said are equally idiotic.” Ms. Omar’s spokesman did not immediately return a request for comment. Top Democrats are hardly ready to cede support of Israel to Republicans. Representative Steny H. Hoyer, the Democratic leader, gave a rousing defense of the American-Israeli relationship at the Aipac conference Sunday evening, promising to push for a resolution that opposes the boycott Israel movement. Without naming her, he took several jabs at Ms. Omar. “Ladies and gentlemen, when someone accuses American supporters of dual loyalty, I say: Accuse me.” Mr. Hoyer declared. And he also took a shot at two other freshman Democrats who are critical of Israel, Representatives Rashida Tlaib of Michigan and Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York: “By the way, there are 62 freshman Democrats. You hear me? Sixty-two, not three.” Sheryl Gay Stolberg contributed reporting.Supported by letter An advocacy group says the party would be foolish to ignore their voices as the 2020 campaign gets underway. To the Editor: Re “Different Paths for Democrats to Win in 2020” (front page, Feb. 26): Heading into 2020, Democrats would be foolish to ignore women of color, either as a powerful electorate or as policy leaders. Research from the data firm Catalist shows that women of color have the strongest propensity to vote Democratic; 88 percent supported Democrats in the 2018 midterms, compared with 48 percent of white women and 38 percent of white men. We also hold a substantial share of the eligible electorate in the Sun Belt, which you mention as crucial to an alternative electoral strategy: 21 percent in Georgia; 15 percent in North Carolina; and 11 percent in Texas, according to 2016 data calculated from the Current Population Survey by Catalist. Prominent Democrats can no longer reap the benefits of winning elections on the backs of women of color while diminishing their power. Women of color are America’s future. The Democratic Party can no longer afford to operate otherwise. Aimee AllisonOakland, Calif.The writer is the founder of She the People, a national network elevating the political voice and power of women of color.

Supported by letter An advocacy group says the party would be foolish to ignore their voices as the 2020 campaign gets underway. To the Editor: Re “Different Paths for Democrats to Win in 2020” (front page, Feb. 26): Heading into 2020, Democrats would be foolish to ignore women of color, either as a powerful electorate or as policy leaders. Research from the data firm Catalist shows that women of color have the strongest propensity to vote Democratic; 88 percent supported Democrats in the 2018 midterms, compared with 48 percent of white women and 38 percent of white men. We also hold a substantial share of the eligible electorate in the Sun Belt, which you mention as crucial to an alternative electoral strategy: 21 percent in Georgia; 15 percent in North Carolina; and 11 percent in Texas, according to 2016 data calculated from the Current Population Survey by Catalist. Prominent Democrats can no longer reap the benefits of winning elections on the backs of women of color while diminishing their power. Women of color are America’s future. The Democratic Party can no longer afford to operate otherwise. Aimee AllisonOakland, Calif.The writer is the founder of She the People, a national network elevating the political voice and power of women of color.Supported by By Reuters HELSINKI — Finland's leftist Social Democrats and the nationalist Finns Party emerged nearly tied to win Sunday's general election, reflecting a mounting sense of insecurity in the Nordic nation over immigration, welfare and climate change. Tipped to win, the opposition Social Democrats scored 17.7 percent, while their eurosceptic Finns Party rivals were at 17.5 percent, according to final results from the justice ministry. The co-ruling Centre Party of Prime Minister Juha Sipila and center-right National Coalition stood at 13.8 percent and 17.0 percent, respectively, marking the first time in a century that no party won more than 20 percent in a general election.  With a fragmented parliament and deep divisions within the mainstream parties over how to tackle rising costs of expensive public services, coalition talks following the election could be protracted.  But Social Democrat leader Antti Rinne, 56, a former union boss, was expected to have the first shot at forming a government, with most party leaders having ruled out cooperation with the populist Finns. "For the first time since 1999 we are the largest party in Finland ... SDP is the prime minister's party," Rinne told supporters and party members celebrating in central Helsinki. With the European Parliament election less than two months away, the Finnish ballot is being watched in Brussels. Underscoring a growing confidence among the far-right in Europe, anti-immigration parties, including the Finns, have announced plans to join forces after the May 26 EU election in a move that could give them a major say in how the continent is run. At stake in Finland is the future shape of the country's welfare system, a pillar of the social model across the Nordics, which the leftists want to preserve through tax hikes and the center-right wants to see streamlined because of rising costs. Just as the Social Democrats are benefiting from a growing sense of insecurity among Finland's older and poorer voters, the Finns argue that the nation has gone too far in addressing issues such as climate change and migration at its own expense.  MOST POPULAR POLITICIAN After losing some ground when hardliner Jussi Halla-aho took the party's reigns in 2017, the Finns have made rapid gains in recent months when a number of cases of sexual abuse of minors by foreign men stirred anti-immigration sentiments. But Halla-aho, who was fined by the Supreme Court in 2012 for blog comments linking Islam to paedophilia and Somalis to theft, emerged as Finland's most popular politician on Sunday, garnering the highest number of votes - more than 30,000. The Social Democrats' Rinne won roughly 12,000. "I could not expect a result like this, and no one could," Halla-aho told supporters on Sunday, referring to the party's overall result. The Finns Party's stance on environmental policies, which includes opposing a proposed tax on meat consumption, appeals to rural voters in particular who worry about soaring fuel costs and resent any efforts to change what they see as the traditional Finnish way of life. The party is the only group in Finland - a country that has the highest air quality in the world, according to the World Health Organisation - to argue the next government should not speed up cutting carbon emissions to combat climate change. Unlike Finland's Social Democrats as well as populists in the south of Europe who resonate with voters angry over slow economic growth in the aftermath of the 2008 global financial crisis, the Finns call for fiscal restraint.  One area that has suffered most in the Nordics is the region's cherished welfare model. Healthcare systems across much of the developed world have come under increasing stress in recent years as treatment costs soar and people live longer, meaning fewer workers are supporting more pensioners. Reform has been controversial in Finland and plans to cut costs and boost efficiency have stalled for years, leaving older voters worried about the future. "It's good that we are the biggest party in Finland, but it's tough competition with other parties. Negotiations for a new government will be very tough and very difficult," Social Democrat supporter Mikko Heinikoski, 37, said.   (Additional reporting by Attila Cser and Ilze Filks in Helsinki; Writing by Justyna Pawlak; Editing by Janet Lawrence, Angus MacSwan and Daniel Wallis)

Supported by By Reuters HELSINKI — Finland's leftist Social Democrats and the nationalist Finns Party emerged nearly tied to win Sunday's general election, reflecting a mounting sense of insecurity in the Nordic nation over immigration, welfare and climate change. Tipped to win, the opposition Social Democrats scored 17.7 percent, while their eurosceptic Finns Party rivals were at 17.5 percent, according to final results from the justice ministry. The co-ruling Centre Party of Prime Minister Juha Sipila and center-right National Coalition stood at 13.8 percent and 17.0 percent, respectively, marking the first time in a century that no party won more than 20 percent in a general election.  With a fragmented parliament and deep divisions within the mainstream parties over how to tackle rising costs of expensive public services, coalition talks following the election could be protracted.  But Social Democrat leader Antti Rinne, 56, a former union boss, was expected to have the first shot at forming a government, with most party leaders having ruled out cooperation with the populist Finns. "For the first time since 1999 we are the largest party in Finland ... SDP is the prime minister's party," Rinne told supporters and party members celebrating in central Helsinki. With the European Parliament election less than two months away, the Finnish ballot is being watched in Brussels. Underscoring a growing confidence among the far-right in Europe, anti-immigration parties, including the Finns, have announced plans to join forces after the May 26 EU election in a move that could give them a major say in how the continent is run. At stake in Finland is the future shape of the country's welfare system, a pillar of the social model across the Nordics, which the leftists want to preserve through tax hikes and the center-right wants to see streamlined because of rising costs. Just as the Social Democrats are benefiting from a growing sense of insecurity among Finland's older and poorer voters, the Finns argue that the nation has gone too far in addressing issues such as climate change and migration at its own expense.  MOST POPULAR POLITICIAN After losing some ground when hardliner Jussi Halla-aho took the party's reigns in 2017, the Finns have made rapid gains in recent months when a number of cases of sexual abuse of minors by foreign men stirred anti-immigration sentiments. But Halla-aho, who was fined by the Supreme Court in 2012 for blog comments linking Islam to paedophilia and Somalis to theft, emerged as Finland's most popular politician on Sunday, garnering the highest number of votes - more than 30,000. The Social Democrats' Rinne won roughly 12,000. "I could not expect a result like this, and no one could," Halla-aho told supporters on Sunday, referring to the party's overall result. The Finns Party's stance on environmental policies, which includes opposing a proposed tax on meat consumption, appeals to rural voters in particular who worry about soaring fuel costs and resent any efforts to change what they see as the traditional Finnish way of life. The party is the only group in Finland - a country that has the highest air quality in the world, according to the World Health Organisation - to argue the next government should not speed up cutting carbon emissions to combat climate change. Unlike Finland's Social Democrats as well as populists in the south of Europe who resonate with voters angry over slow economic growth in the aftermath of the 2008 global financial crisis, the Finns call for fiscal restraint.  One area that has suffered most in the Nordics is the region's cherished welfare model. Healthcare systems across much of the developed world have come under increasing stress in recent years as treatment costs soar and people live longer, meaning fewer workers are supporting more pensioners. Reform has been controversial in Finland and plans to cut costs and boost efficiency have stalled for years, leaving older voters worried about the future. "It's good that we are the biggest party in Finland, but it's tough competition with other parties. Negotiations for a new government will be very tough and very difficult," Social Democrat supporter Mikko Heinikoski, 37, said.   (Additional reporting by Attila Cser and Ilze Filks in Helsinki; Writing by Justyna Pawlak; Editing by Janet Lawrence, Angus MacSwan and Daniel Wallis)Supported by By Jennifer Steinhauer WASHINGTON — The new Democratic leadership of the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee said Friday that it would investigate the influence exerted by three members of President Trump’s Florida beach club on the Department of Veterans Affairs. The move was viewed as an early, and powerful, indication that the committee, which has always been known as among the most bipartisan on Capitol Hill, could adopt a harder edge under the new Congress as empowered Democrats move to scrutinize the administration. The investigation was announced in a letter to Robert Wilkie, the secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs, from Representative Mark Takano, Democrat of California, the new chairman of the committee. Mr. Takano requested documents and “information about alleged improper influence” of the members, Isaac Perlmutter, Bruce Moskowitz and Marc Sherman, “over policy and personnel decisions of the Department of Veterans Affairs.” Mr. Takano said the three men exerted inappropriate influence over procurement at the sprawling department. Mr. Perlmutter is the former chief executive of Marvel Entertainment, Mr. Sherman is a lawyer and Dr. Moskowitz is a doctor. The three do not possess special expertise in veterans health care issues, but were reported to be influential over Trump administration policy, including its plans to push the department’s health care system toward private providers. The three are frequently at Mar-a-Lago, Mr. Trump’s private club in Palm Beach, Fla. According to a report last year by the nonprofit investigative news organization ProPublica, the three pressured Mr. Trump’s first veterans secretary, David J. Shulkin, then peppered him with demands before ultimately working with personnel in the department to oust him. The group also pushed — in most cases, unsuccessfully — for certain vendors to manage health care records, and had a direct line to the president. “I think most Americans would agree that wealthy private citizens should not be having back-channel influence” on veterans services, Mr. Takano said in an interview Friday. He said that he could use his subpoena power as a “last resort” if the requested documents were not relinquished. “This doesn’t have to be a drama,” he said. “It is a legitimate request.” The three men released a joint statement in response to the committee action. “We were asked by the president and, repeatedly, by the former secretary and his senior staff to assist the V.A. in enhancing the level of service it provides to our veterans,” the statement said. “Our primary focus was to introduce the V.A. to experts in various areas where V.A. staff asked for our help. We do not regret trying to do our small part, and even given the unjust and unrelenting criticism we have faced, each of us would step in to help our veterans again.” A spokesman for the new veterans secretary said he rebuffed outside pressure of the kind ascribed to the three men. “Although his predecessors may have done things differently, Secretary Wilkie has been clear about how he does business,” the spokesman, Curt Cashour, said in an email. “No one from outside the administration dictates V.A. policies or decisions — that’s up to Secretary Wilkie and President Trump. Period.” People who speak regularly with Mr. Wilkie say he has moved to keep the three men at arm’s length since taking over the department, but it is unclear what influence they may continue to have over Mr. Trump. Mr. Takano’s interest appeared to be focused on events predating Mr. Wilkie’s arrival at the department. This week, though, eight high-ranking Republicans and Democrats wrote a letter to Mr. Wilkie imploring him to “be more open, transparent, complete and candid when engaging with Congress in the critical implementation stages of these programs.” But Republicans, who lost their majority in the House in midterm elections last year, were hoping that the committee would continue to focus on bipartisan legislation and oversight of the agency on issues they agree need attention, like how it managed the new G.I. Bill and changes to the health care system. “That’s a waste of time,” Representative Phil Roe of Tennessee, the highest-ranking Republican on the committee, said in an interview last week about the group. “If they go big on that, it won’t be good.” Some Democrats said they were also concerned that the committee might lean too far into their investigative functions for a panel with extensive responsibilities. “We’ve got to do our oversight,” said Representative Peter Welch, Democrat of Vermont. “But what we have to be careful of is over-reading our victory. I would recommend coming out of the gate with something that’s good for veterans.” The House on Friday passed a child care bill to help families of veterans.   

Supported by By Jennifer Steinhauer WASHINGTON — The new Democratic leadership of the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee said Friday that it would investigate the influence exerted by three members of President Trump’s Florida beach club on the Department of Veterans Affairs. The move was viewed as an early, and powerful, indication that the committee, which has always been known as among the most bipartisan on Capitol Hill, could adopt a harder edge under the new Congress as empowered Democrats move to scrutinize the administration. The investigation was announced in a letter to Robert Wilkie, the secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs, from Representative Mark Takano, Democrat of California, the new chairman of the committee. Mr. Takano requested documents and “information about alleged improper influence” of the members, Isaac Perlmutter, Bruce Moskowitz and Marc Sherman, “over policy and personnel decisions of the Department of Veterans Affairs.” Mr. Takano said the three men exerted inappropriate influence over procurement at the sprawling department. Mr. Perlmutter is the former chief executive of Marvel Entertainment, Mr. Sherman is a lawyer and Dr. Moskowitz is a doctor. The three do not possess special expertise in veterans health care issues, but were reported to be influential over Trump administration policy, including its plans to push the department’s health care system toward private providers. The three are frequently at Mar-a-Lago, Mr. Trump’s private club in Palm Beach, Fla. According to a report last year by the nonprofit investigative news organization ProPublica, the three pressured Mr. Trump’s first veterans secretary, David J. Shulkin, then peppered him with demands before ultimately working with personnel in the department to oust him. The group also pushed — in most cases, unsuccessfully — for certain vendors to manage health care records, and had a direct line to the president. “I think most Americans would agree that wealthy private citizens should not be having back-channel influence” on veterans services, Mr. Takano said in an interview Friday. He said that he could use his subpoena power as a “last resort” if the requested documents were not relinquished. “This doesn’t have to be a drama,” he said. “It is a legitimate request.” The three men released a joint statement in response to the committee action. “We were asked by the president and, repeatedly, by the former secretary and his senior staff to assist the V.A. in enhancing the level of service it provides to our veterans,” the statement said. “Our primary focus was to introduce the V.A. to experts in various areas where V.A. staff asked for our help. We do not regret trying to do our small part, and even given the unjust and unrelenting criticism we have faced, each of us would step in to help our veterans again.” A spokesman for the new veterans secretary said he rebuffed outside pressure of the kind ascribed to the three men. “Although his predecessors may have done things differently, Secretary Wilkie has been clear about how he does business,” the spokesman, Curt Cashour, said in an email. “No one from outside the administration dictates V.A. policies or decisions — that’s up to Secretary Wilkie and President Trump. Period.” People who speak regularly with Mr. Wilkie say he has moved to keep the three men at arm’s length since taking over the department, but it is unclear what influence they may continue to have over Mr. Trump. Mr. Takano’s interest appeared to be focused on events predating Mr. Wilkie’s arrival at the department. This week, though, eight high-ranking Republicans and Democrats wrote a letter to Mr. Wilkie imploring him to “be more open, transparent, complete and candid when engaging with Congress in the critical implementation stages of these programs.” But Republicans, who lost their majority in the House in midterm elections last year, were hoping that the committee would continue to focus on bipartisan legislation and oversight of the agency on issues they agree need attention, like how it managed the new G.I. Bill and changes to the health care system. “That’s a waste of time,” Representative Phil Roe of Tennessee, the highest-ranking Republican on the committee, said in an interview last week about the group. “If they go big on that, it won’t be good.” Some Democrats said they were also concerned that the committee might lean too far into their investigative functions for a panel with extensive responsibilities. “We’ve got to do our oversight,” said Representative Peter Welch, Democrat of Vermont. “But what we have to be careful of is over-reading our victory. I would recommend coming out of the gate with something that’s good for veterans.” The House on Friday passed a child care bill to help families of veterans.   Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — The Latest on the special counsel's report on Russian election interference and Donald Trump's campaign (all times local): 8:40 p.m. The chairman of the House Judiciary Committee says the attorney general is "taking unprecedented steps to spin" the special counsel's Russia investigation. Rep. Jerrold Nadler, a New York Democrat, said Wednesday that Attorney General William Barr "appears to be waging a media campaign" on behalf of President Donald Trump. He says the attorney general's decision to hold a Thursday morning news conference, before releasing a redacted version of Robert Mueller's report to Congress, will "again result in the report being presented through his own words." He warns that if the report is heavily redacted, the committee will issue subpoenas "in short order." Nadler says he will "probably find it useful" to call Mueller and members of his team to testify after reading the version of the report Barr releases. __ 8:20 p.m. The Justice Department plans to release a redacted report on the special counsel's Russia investigation one or two hours after a Thursday morning news conference by Attorney General William Barr. That's raising the ire of Democrats. They have said they are concerned that Barr will try to color the findings before the public has a chance to read the report. The chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, New York Democrat Jerrold Nadler, says the timing of Barr's discussion of the redacted report and its release to Congress is "wrong." Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer says "the process is poisoned before the report is even released." House Speaker Nancy Pelosi says Barr has "thrown out his credibility & the DOJ's independence with his single-minded effort to protect" Trump. ___ 6:45 p.m. The chairman of the House Judiciary Committee says it is "wrong" that his committee will receive a redacted version of special counsel Robert Mueller's report after Attorney General William Barr gives a news conference on it Thursday. New York Rep. Jerrold Nadler says in a tweet that the Justice Department has informed his panel that it will receive the report around 11 a.m. or noon, hours after Barr's 9:30 a.m. press conference. Democrats have said they are concerned that Barr will try to color Mueller's findings before the public has a chance to read the report. The chairman of the Democratic caucus, New York Rep. Hakeem Jeffries, tweeted in reference to Barr, "Release the Mueller report tomorrow morning and keep your mouth shut." __ 5:10 p.m. President Donald Trump says he may hold a press conference after the release of the redacted version of special counsel Robert Mueller's report on Thursday. Trump is expressing confidence about the findings of Mueller's Russia probe in an interview with conservative radio host Larry O'Connor. He says, "You'll see a lot of very strong things come out tomorrow." Attorney General William Barr will hold a news conference Thursday morning as the report is set to be released. Trump says, "Maybe I'll do one after that, we'll see." ___ 4:30 p.m. The Justice Department says Attorney General William Barr will hold a news conference Thursday morning on special counsel Robert Mueller's Russia investigation. The news conference will be held at 9:30 a.m. at the Justice Department in Washington. Barr will be joined by Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein. The Justice Department has said a redacted version of Mueller's report will be released Thursday. Mueller officially concluded his investigation late last month and submitted a nearly 400-page report to Barr. __ 2:50 p.m. After nearly two years of waiting, America will get some answers straight from Robert Mueller. The Justice Department on Thursday is expected to release a redacted version of the special counsel's report on Russian election interference and Donald Trump's campaign, opening up months, if not years, of fights over what the document means in a deeply divided country. The nearly 400-page report is expected to reveal what Mueller uncovered about ties between the Trump campaign and Russia that fell short of criminal conduct. It will also lay out the special counsel's conclusions about formative episodes in Trump's presidency, including his firing of FBI Director James Comey and his efforts to undermine the Russia investigation publicly and privately.

Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — The Latest on the special counsel's report on Russian election interference and Donald Trump's campaign (all times local): 8:40 p.m. The chairman of the House Judiciary Committee says the attorney general is "taking unprecedented steps to spin" the special counsel's Russia investigation. Rep. Jerrold Nadler, a New York Democrat, said Wednesday that Attorney General William Barr "appears to be waging a media campaign" on behalf of President Donald Trump. He says the attorney general's decision to hold a Thursday morning news conference, before releasing a redacted version of Robert Mueller's report to Congress, will "again result in the report being presented through his own words." He warns that if the report is heavily redacted, the committee will issue subpoenas "in short order." Nadler says he will "probably find it useful" to call Mueller and members of his team to testify after reading the version of the report Barr releases. __ 8:20 p.m. The Justice Department plans to release a redacted report on the special counsel's Russia investigation one or two hours after a Thursday morning news conference by Attorney General William Barr. That's raising the ire of Democrats. They have said they are concerned that Barr will try to color the findings before the public has a chance to read the report. The chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, New York Democrat Jerrold Nadler, says the timing of Barr's discussion of the redacted report and its release to Congress is "wrong." Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer says "the process is poisoned before the report is even released." House Speaker Nancy Pelosi says Barr has "thrown out his credibility & the DOJ's independence with his single-minded effort to protect" Trump. ___ 6:45 p.m. The chairman of the House Judiciary Committee says it is "wrong" that his committee will receive a redacted version of special counsel Robert Mueller's report after Attorney General William Barr gives a news conference on it Thursday. New York Rep. Jerrold Nadler says in a tweet that the Justice Department has informed his panel that it will receive the report around 11 a.m. or noon, hours after Barr's 9:30 a.m. press conference. Democrats have said they are concerned that Barr will try to color Mueller's findings before the public has a chance to read the report. The chairman of the Democratic caucus, New York Rep. Hakeem Jeffries, tweeted in reference to Barr, "Release the Mueller report tomorrow morning and keep your mouth shut." __ 5:10 p.m. President Donald Trump says he may hold a press conference after the release of the redacted version of special counsel Robert Mueller's report on Thursday. Trump is expressing confidence about the findings of Mueller's Russia probe in an interview with conservative radio host Larry O'Connor. He says, "You'll see a lot of very strong things come out tomorrow." Attorney General William Barr will hold a news conference Thursday morning as the report is set to be released. Trump says, "Maybe I'll do one after that, we'll see." ___ 4:30 p.m. The Justice Department says Attorney General William Barr will hold a news conference Thursday morning on special counsel Robert Mueller's Russia investigation. The news conference will be held at 9:30 a.m. at the Justice Department in Washington. Barr will be joined by Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein. The Justice Department has said a redacted version of Mueller's report will be released Thursday. Mueller officially concluded his investigation late last month and submitted a nearly 400-page report to Barr. __ 2:50 p.m. After nearly two years of waiting, America will get some answers straight from Robert Mueller. The Justice Department on Thursday is expected to release a redacted version of the special counsel's report on Russian election interference and Donald Trump's campaign, opening up months, if not years, of fights over what the document means in a deeply divided country. The nearly 400-page report is expected to reveal what Mueller uncovered about ties between the Trump campaign and Russia that fell short of criminal conduct. It will also lay out the special counsel's conclusions about formative episodes in Trump's presidency, including his firing of FBI Director James Comey and his efforts to undermine the Russia investigation publicly and privately.Supported by letter A former commerce under secretary criticizes the party for rules that he says go too far. To the Editor: Like the weather, everyone talks about bipartisanship, but few in Congress do anything about it. My Democratic Party’s net neutrality proposal shows the problem.  Public pressure has forced Republicans to support new rules on net neutrality, and there is a bipartisan majority in Congress to keep the internet open and unconstrained. But rather than take yes for an answer, Democrats now want rules that go far beyond net neutrality by micromanaging prices, operations and deployment of new services as well. It’s hard to avoid the conclusion that they would rather have an issue on which to campaign and raise money than a deal that protects consumers and promotes economic growth. The “permanent campaign” strikes again. I was in the Clinton administration, which achieved the original bipartisan deal: the 1996 Telecommunications Act. The “light touch” regulation of the internet it created led to a gusher of new investment and faster, more powerful service than even we imagined at the time. Congress needs to go back to that playbook, because a bill-signing ceremony for workable net neutrality legislation would be far preferable than yet another round of hearings, news conferences and fund-raising emails. Ev EhrlichWashingtonThe writer, a consultant, was an under secretary of commerce in the Clinton administration.

Supported by letter A former commerce under secretary criticizes the party for rules that he says go too far. To the Editor: Like the weather, everyone talks about bipartisanship, but few in Congress do anything about it. My Democratic Party’s net neutrality proposal shows the problem.  Public pressure has forced Republicans to support new rules on net neutrality, and there is a bipartisan majority in Congress to keep the internet open and unconstrained. But rather than take yes for an answer, Democrats now want rules that go far beyond net neutrality by micromanaging prices, operations and deployment of new services as well. It’s hard to avoid the conclusion that they would rather have an issue on which to campaign and raise money than a deal that protects consumers and promotes economic growth. The “permanent campaign” strikes again. I was in the Clinton administration, which achieved the original bipartisan deal: the 1996 Telecommunications Act. The “light touch” regulation of the internet it created led to a gusher of new investment and faster, more powerful service than even we imagined at the time. Congress needs to go back to that playbook, because a bill-signing ceremony for workable net neutrality legislation would be far preferable than yet another round of hearings, news conferences and fund-raising emails. Ev EhrlichWashingtonThe writer, a consultant, was an under secretary of commerce in the Clinton administration.Supported by By The Associated Press UPPER ST. CLAIR TOWNSHIP, Pa. — Some Democrats thought they didn't need white male voters in 2016. But the party knows it needs them in 2020. The wide and diverse Democratic presidential field has different approaches to winning over a group of voters that's long troubled the party. Some Democrats suggest targeting white male college graduates, a group that's slowly been trending Democratic even as those without a college degree have become the GOP's core voters. Democrats hoped a coalition of minority voters and suburban white women would counter that, but the combination fell short in the 2016 election that Donald Trump won. So several of the Democratic hopefuls in 2020 want to show how they can appeal to the white men without alienating the rest of the party.

Supported by By The Associated Press UPPER ST. CLAIR TOWNSHIP, Pa. — Some Democrats thought they didn't need white male voters in 2016. But the party knows it needs them in 2020. The wide and diverse Democratic presidential field has different approaches to winning over a group of voters that's long troubled the party. Some Democrats suggest targeting white male college graduates, a group that's slowly been trending Democratic even as those without a college degree have become the GOP's core voters. Democrats hoped a coalition of minority voters and suburban white women would counter that, but the combination fell short in the 2016 election that Donald Trump won. So several of the Democratic hopefuls in 2020 want to show how they can appeal to the white men without alienating the rest of the party.Supported by By Jonathan Martin and Alexander Burns DES MOINES — At the very first event of her first full day in Iowa as a presidential candidate, Senator Kamala Harris was greeted by a Democratic voter who delivered a pointed recommendation about the best path to the White House. The voter, Rahul Parsa, who teaches at Iowa State University’s business school, said he told Ms. Harris at a gathering of Asian and Latino activists that she needs to think of the Democratic Party in the Midwest like a struggling retail business — and that she should seek out not just the regular customers, but those who are not loyal supporters as well.  “Kamala needs to find out why the people voted for Trump, what are their issues?” said Mr. Parsa, adding that he had one overarching demand for the burgeoning field of would-be nominees: “You need to bring some states in the Midwest.” As the Democratic race takes flight, with one or more candidates entering the race almost every week, Mr. Parsa’s viewpoint represents one side of a long-simmering debate within the party: Should Democrats redouble their efforts to win back the industrial heartland that effectively delivered the presidency to Donald J. Trump? Or should they turn their attention to more demographically promising Sun Belt states like Georgia and Arizona? With polls indicating that electoral viability is as important to voters as any policy issue, a handful of the party’s prospects are already holding up their Midwestern credentials to make the case that they are the ones who can turn Big Ten country — Pennsylvania, Michigan, Wisconsin — blue again. [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota went immediately to next-door Wisconsin after declaring her candidacy earlier this month, making a hard-to-miss point about her eagerness to compete in a state Hillary Clinton never visited in the 2016 general election. Senator Sherrod Brown of Ohio, who has not officially entered the race, used his first Iowa trip to make a beeline for a county that went for former President Barack Obama by over 20 points in 2012 but fell to Mr. Trump by about the same margin four years later.  And a central premise of former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s potential candidacy is that the Scranton-born Democrat would be the political mason best able to reconstruct the party’s so-called Midwestern blue wall. Yet far away from the mounting snowdrifts that line every curb here, there is a growing school of thought that Democrats should not spend so much time, money and psychic energy tailoring their message to a heavily white, rural and blue-collar part of the country when their coalition is increasingly made up of racial minorities and suburbanites. The party should still pursue voters who have drifted toward Republicans, this thinking goes, but should also place a high priority on mobilizing communities more amenable to progressive politics. The numerical swap between the three Rust Belt states that handed Mr. Trump the White House and the most alluring trio of Sun Belt targets is nearly even: Pennsylvania, Michigan and Wisconsin have a combined 46 electoral votes, while North Carolina, Georgia and Arizona offer 42. And an aspirational “reach” state like Texas would offer a larger trove of electoral votes for Democrats than the combined total of Ohio and Iowa, states that have started to slip away from the party. Won by Clinton Won by Trump Industrial Midwest MICH.  16 WIS. 10 IOWA 6 PA. 20 OHIO  18 N.C. 15 TEX.  38 GA. 16 ARIZ.  11 FLA. 29 Sunbelt Won by Clinton Won by Trump Industrial Midwest MICH.  16 WIS. 10 IOWA 6 PA. 20 OHIO  18 N.C. 15 TEX.  38 GA. 16 ARIZ.  11 Sunbelt FLA. 29 Won by Clinton Industrial Midwest Won by Trump MICH.  16 WIS. 10 IOWA 6 PA. 20 OHIO  18 ARIZ.  11 N.C. 15 TEX.  38 GA. 16 Sunbelt FLA. 29 Election results from The Associated Press By The New York Times The dispute is not merely a tactical one — it goes to the heart of how Democrats envision themselves becoming a majority party. The question is whether that is accomplished through a focus on kitchen-table topics like health care and jobs, aimed at winning moderates and disaffected Trump voters, or by unapologetically elevating matters of race and identity, such as immigration, to mobilize young people and minorities with new fervor. Julián Castro, the former federal housing secretary and mayor of San Antonio who is running for the Democratic nomination, said reclaiming the Midwest should be Democrats’ “top priority.” He said Mr. Trump had plainly failed voters there, “whether it’s been on trade or the loss of jobs at G.M.”  But Mr. Castro also urged the party to stretch the electoral map far deeper into Republican territory, suggesting that, with the right candidate, Democrats could deal Mr. Trump a crippling blow by turning even Texas blue. “The Sun Belt is clearly turning against him,” Mr. Castro said of the president, adding, “I do think candidates that can connect with growing, diverse states like Arizona, Texas, Florida and Georgia, it makes a big difference.” Mr. Castro cited his own historic status to suggest he could do just that: “Among other things, I’m young, and, as a groundbreaking Latino candidate, I’m convinced that the turnout out there in the Latino community will go through the roof.” Stacey Abrams, the Georgia Democrat who narrowly lost the governorship there last year and is considering a Senate bid next year, was even blunter. “The accelerating diversity of the new American majority demands a fresh approach to winning elections, which will yield more representative leadership and policies that serve all,” said Ms. Abrams, adding that “our electorate must be built on infrequent voters who share our values.” But the suggestion that Democrats should de-emphasize what has long been the pre-eminent battleground in presidential politics is enough to rouse deep anger among officeholders in the Midwest. “It drives me crazy,” said Gov. Gretchen Whitmer of Michigan, who rolled to an easy victory last year in a state Mr. Trump narrowly won. “To put any particular part of the country into a general classification and write them off is ridiculous.” Ms. Whitmer said she won “by going into areas most Democrats wouldn’t spend their time going.” She added, “You show up at a bowling alley.” [Who’s in, who’s out and who’s still thinking. Our Democratic candidate tracker] To other Democrats in the region, it is not just a matter of showing up. The approach to policy matters, too.  In contrast to those on the left who say the only way to win is to energize progressives with an ambitious agenda, Gov. Tony Evers of Wisconsin said the party would do best in his state with a pragmatic candidate who recognized that dramatic policy proposals — like free college and “Medicare for all” — were aspirational goals rather than do-or-die demands. “I think Wisconsin is very winnable,” Mr. Evers said. “But it has to be someone that speaks to the issues but also is viewed as rational.’’  Asked if the Upper Midwest represented Democrats’ fastest route back to the White House, Mr. Evers, a soft-spoken former state education official, answered with a twinkle-eyed smile. “Hell yes,” he said. To Democrats in the Midwest, the cardinal sin of the 2016 campaign was Mrs. Clinton’s failure to deliver a concrete and persuasive economic message, leaving traditionally Democratic blue-collar constituencies either uninspired to vote or tempted to support Mr. Trump. Gov. J.B. Pritzker of Illinois, a longtime ally of Mrs. Clinton’s who took office this year, said the party should be on offense across the map in 2020. But he described unlocking the Midwest as their paramount imperative, and he urged Democrats to speak in vivid terms about the changing economy and to compete even in rural, conservative-leaning areas that rarely support the party’s candidates. “You cannot get to the White House without winning the Midwest,” Mr. Pritzker said, arguing that economic issues transcended other social divisions in much of the region. “You do have to be able to speak to people where the manufacturing base has been eroded, where the skills gap is widening, where the jobs are changing.” But Mr. Pritzker said the 2020 Democratic ticket had to mirror the party's complex coalition, too. “It’s hard to believe that our party, which is truly representative of the diversity of America, could ever again put forward a ticket that’s two white men, for sure, or two white people,” he said. The more serious risk to backing away from the Midwest, Democrats here and elsewhere say, is that the party could endanger its newly won House majority and all but concede a long-term Republican majority in the Senate by not plowing top-of-the-ticket resources across the Great Lakes region. “If you can’t make the case to — and you don’t show up for — rural voters, you’re never going to have the Senate, so you’re never going to be able to govern,” said the former agriculture secretary and Iowa governor Tom Vilsack. For many Democrats, there is no choice to be made. While the Midwest might be enough to win them the presidency, only sweeping victories across both regions would be enough to secure the White House and both chambers of Congress. The stakes for Democrats may be highest in the Senate, where they face a structural disadvantage because of the outsized clout of rural conservative states. Party leaders have increasingly looked to the Sun Belt — and recruits like Ms. Abrams and Beto O’Rourke in Texas — to offset Democrats’ growing weakness in the Farm Belt and the rural West. “One of the big lessons we learned in 2018 is that the party as a whole needs to think bigger than it traditionally has and create a larger footprint in the map,” said Dan Sena, a New Mexico-raised strategist who masterminded the Democrats’ House takeover last year by pushing the party to compete for once-forbidding seats in both Iowa and Georgia. And of course, the Democrats aspiring to be president have the most interest in a both-paths approach. Ms. Klobuchar may have vowed she would “not leave the Midwest behind,” but last weekend she sped to Atlanta and paid a visit to Ms. Abrams and former President Jimmy Carter. And Mr. Brown spent the weekend in the increasingly diverse, and Democratic, early nominating state of Nevada. “We need to compete among working-class voters of all races everywhere in the country,” he said by phone Sunday as he made his way through the Las Vegas airport, arguing that his “message works everywhere.” But Mr. Brown was just as quick to point out that no Republican has ever won the presidency without carrying Ohio, and he offered what amounts to a chilling reminder to Democrats when asked about the wisdom of downplaying the Midwest.  “I don’t want to wake up the day after the election in 2020 and win the popular vote by 4.5 million and lose the Electoral College,” he said. Jonathan Martin reported from Des Moines and Alexander Burns from Washington Jonathan Martin is a national political correspondent. He has reported on a range of topics, including the 2016 presidential election and several state and congressional races, while also writing for Sports, Food and the Book Review. He is also a CNN political analyst.  @jmartnyt  Alexander Burns is a national political correspondent, covering elections and political power across the country, including Donald Trump’s 2016 campaign. Before coming to The Times in 2015, he covered the 2012 presidential election for Politico.  @alexburnsNYT 

Supported by By Jonathan Martin and Alexander Burns DES MOINES — At the very first event of her first full day in Iowa as a presidential candidate, Senator Kamala Harris was greeted by a Democratic voter who delivered a pointed recommendation about the best path to the White House. The voter, Rahul Parsa, who teaches at Iowa State University’s business school, said he told Ms. Harris at a gathering of Asian and Latino activists that she needs to think of the Democratic Party in the Midwest like a struggling retail business — and that she should seek out not just the regular customers, but those who are not loyal supporters as well.  “Kamala needs to find out why the people voted for Trump, what are their issues?” said Mr. Parsa, adding that he had one overarching demand for the burgeoning field of would-be nominees: “You need to bring some states in the Midwest.” As the Democratic race takes flight, with one or more candidates entering the race almost every week, Mr. Parsa’s viewpoint represents one side of a long-simmering debate within the party: Should Democrats redouble their efforts to win back the industrial heartland that effectively delivered the presidency to Donald J. Trump? Or should they turn their attention to more demographically promising Sun Belt states like Georgia and Arizona? With polls indicating that electoral viability is as important to voters as any policy issue, a handful of the party’s prospects are already holding up their Midwestern credentials to make the case that they are the ones who can turn Big Ten country — Pennsylvania, Michigan, Wisconsin — blue again. [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota went immediately to next-door Wisconsin after declaring her candidacy earlier this month, making a hard-to-miss point about her eagerness to compete in a state Hillary Clinton never visited in the 2016 general election. Senator Sherrod Brown of Ohio, who has not officially entered the race, used his first Iowa trip to make a beeline for a county that went for former President Barack Obama by over 20 points in 2012 but fell to Mr. Trump by about the same margin four years later.  And a central premise of former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s potential candidacy is that the Scranton-born Democrat would be the political mason best able to reconstruct the party’s so-called Midwestern blue wall. Yet far away from the mounting snowdrifts that line every curb here, there is a growing school of thought that Democrats should not spend so much time, money and psychic energy tailoring their message to a heavily white, rural and blue-collar part of the country when their coalition is increasingly made up of racial minorities and suburbanites. The party should still pursue voters who have drifted toward Republicans, this thinking goes, but should also place a high priority on mobilizing communities more amenable to progressive politics. The numerical swap between the three Rust Belt states that handed Mr. Trump the White House and the most alluring trio of Sun Belt targets is nearly even: Pennsylvania, Michigan and Wisconsin have a combined 46 electoral votes, while North Carolina, Georgia and Arizona offer 42. And an aspirational “reach” state like Texas would offer a larger trove of electoral votes for Democrats than the combined total of Ohio and Iowa, states that have started to slip away from the party. Won by Clinton Won by Trump Industrial Midwest MICH.  16 WIS. 10 IOWA 6 PA. 20 OHIO  18 N.C. 15 TEX.  38 GA. 16 ARIZ.  11 FLA. 29 Sunbelt Won by Clinton Won by Trump Industrial Midwest MICH.  16 WIS. 10 IOWA 6 PA. 20 OHIO  18 N.C. 15 TEX.  38 GA. 16 ARIZ.  11 Sunbelt FLA. 29 Won by Clinton Industrial Midwest Won by Trump MICH.  16 WIS. 10 IOWA 6 PA. 20 OHIO  18 ARIZ.  11 N.C. 15 TEX.  38 GA. 16 Sunbelt FLA. 29 Election results from The Associated Press By The New York Times The dispute is not merely a tactical one — it goes to the heart of how Democrats envision themselves becoming a majority party. The question is whether that is accomplished through a focus on kitchen-table topics like health care and jobs, aimed at winning moderates and disaffected Trump voters, or by unapologetically elevating matters of race and identity, such as immigration, to mobilize young people and minorities with new fervor. Julián Castro, the former federal housing secretary and mayor of San Antonio who is running for the Democratic nomination, said reclaiming the Midwest should be Democrats’ “top priority.” He said Mr. Trump had plainly failed voters there, “whether it’s been on trade or the loss of jobs at G.M.”  But Mr. Castro also urged the party to stretch the electoral map far deeper into Republican territory, suggesting that, with the right candidate, Democrats could deal Mr. Trump a crippling blow by turning even Texas blue. “The Sun Belt is clearly turning against him,” Mr. Castro said of the president, adding, “I do think candidates that can connect with growing, diverse states like Arizona, Texas, Florida and Georgia, it makes a big difference.” Mr. Castro cited his own historic status to suggest he could do just that: “Among other things, I’m young, and, as a groundbreaking Latino candidate, I’m convinced that the turnout out there in the Latino community will go through the roof.” Stacey Abrams, the Georgia Democrat who narrowly lost the governorship there last year and is considering a Senate bid next year, was even blunter. “The accelerating diversity of the new American majority demands a fresh approach to winning elections, which will yield more representative leadership and policies that serve all,” said Ms. Abrams, adding that “our electorate must be built on infrequent voters who share our values.” But the suggestion that Democrats should de-emphasize what has long been the pre-eminent battleground in presidential politics is enough to rouse deep anger among officeholders in the Midwest. “It drives me crazy,” said Gov. Gretchen Whitmer of Michigan, who rolled to an easy victory last year in a state Mr. Trump narrowly won. “To put any particular part of the country into a general classification and write them off is ridiculous.” Ms. Whitmer said she won “by going into areas most Democrats wouldn’t spend their time going.” She added, “You show up at a bowling alley.” [Who’s in, who’s out and who’s still thinking. Our Democratic candidate tracker] To other Democrats in the region, it is not just a matter of showing up. The approach to policy matters, too.  In contrast to those on the left who say the only way to win is to energize progressives with an ambitious agenda, Gov. Tony Evers of Wisconsin said the party would do best in his state with a pragmatic candidate who recognized that dramatic policy proposals — like free college and “Medicare for all” — were aspirational goals rather than do-or-die demands. “I think Wisconsin is very winnable,” Mr. Evers said. “But it has to be someone that speaks to the issues but also is viewed as rational.’’  Asked if the Upper Midwest represented Democrats’ fastest route back to the White House, Mr. Evers, a soft-spoken former state education official, answered with a twinkle-eyed smile. “Hell yes,” he said. To Democrats in the Midwest, the cardinal sin of the 2016 campaign was Mrs. Clinton’s failure to deliver a concrete and persuasive economic message, leaving traditionally Democratic blue-collar constituencies either uninspired to vote or tempted to support Mr. Trump. Gov. J.B. Pritzker of Illinois, a longtime ally of Mrs. Clinton’s who took office this year, said the party should be on offense across the map in 2020. But he described unlocking the Midwest as their paramount imperative, and he urged Democrats to speak in vivid terms about the changing economy and to compete even in rural, conservative-leaning areas that rarely support the party’s candidates. “You cannot get to the White House without winning the Midwest,” Mr. Pritzker said, arguing that economic issues transcended other social divisions in much of the region. “You do have to be able to speak to people where the manufacturing base has been eroded, where the skills gap is widening, where the jobs are changing.” But Mr. Pritzker said the 2020 Democratic ticket had to mirror the party's complex coalition, too. “It’s hard to believe that our party, which is truly representative of the diversity of America, could ever again put forward a ticket that’s two white men, for sure, or two white people,” he said. The more serious risk to backing away from the Midwest, Democrats here and elsewhere say, is that the party could endanger its newly won House majority and all but concede a long-term Republican majority in the Senate by not plowing top-of-the-ticket resources across the Great Lakes region. “If you can’t make the case to — and you don’t show up for — rural voters, you’re never going to have the Senate, so you’re never going to be able to govern,” said the former agriculture secretary and Iowa governor Tom Vilsack. For many Democrats, there is no choice to be made. While the Midwest might be enough to win them the presidency, only sweeping victories across both regions would be enough to secure the White House and both chambers of Congress. The stakes for Democrats may be highest in the Senate, where they face a structural disadvantage because of the outsized clout of rural conservative states. Party leaders have increasingly looked to the Sun Belt — and recruits like Ms. Abrams and Beto O’Rourke in Texas — to offset Democrats’ growing weakness in the Farm Belt and the rural West. “One of the big lessons we learned in 2018 is that the party as a whole needs to think bigger than it traditionally has and create a larger footprint in the map,” said Dan Sena, a New Mexico-raised strategist who masterminded the Democrats’ House takeover last year by pushing the party to compete for once-forbidding seats in both Iowa and Georgia. And of course, the Democrats aspiring to be president have the most interest in a both-paths approach. Ms. Klobuchar may have vowed she would “not leave the Midwest behind,” but last weekend she sped to Atlanta and paid a visit to Ms. Abrams and former President Jimmy Carter. And Mr. Brown spent the weekend in the increasingly diverse, and Democratic, early nominating state of Nevada. “We need to compete among working-class voters of all races everywhere in the country,” he said by phone Sunday as he made his way through the Las Vegas airport, arguing that his “message works everywhere.” But Mr. Brown was just as quick to point out that no Republican has ever won the presidency without carrying Ohio, and he offered what amounts to a chilling reminder to Democrats when asked about the wisdom of downplaying the Midwest.  “I don’t want to wake up the day after the election in 2020 and win the popular vote by 4.5 million and lose the Electoral College,” he said. Jonathan Martin reported from Des Moines and Alexander Burns from Washington Jonathan Martin is a national political correspondent. He has reported on a range of topics, including the 2016 presidential election and several state and congressional races, while also writing for Sports, Food and the Book Review. He is also a CNN political analyst.  @jmartnyt  Alexander Burns is a national political correspondent, covering elections and political power across the country, including Donald Trump’s 2016 campaign. Before coming to The Times in 2015, he covered the 2012 presidential election for Politico.  @alexburnsNYT Supported by The G.O.P. under President Trump has given liberals an opening in places like Iowa. But they need to know how to speak to voters here.  By Robert Leonard and Matt Russell Mr. Leonard is the news director for the Iowa radio stations KNIA and KRLS. Mr. Russell is the owner of Coyote Run Farm and the executive director of Iowa Interfaith Power and Light.  KNOXVILLE, Iowa — It’s caucus season here in Iowa, and Democratic presidential candidates are swarming the place like flies at a cattle barn. We’ve talked policy with Amy Klobuchar and Kirsten Gillibrand over beers, and watched Kamala Harris work the crowd at a bar in Indianola. We’ve been in what once would have been “smoke-filled rooms” with Steve Bullock and Cory Booker. We’ve been stuffed into what seemed like enormous mosh pits oozing with adoring fans of Elizabeth Warren. The Iowa caucus offers Democrats an opportunity to hone their pitch to rural America. Some of the biggest problems around here are in agriculture and trade — yet in those areas, several candidates seem clueless. One appears to know so little it would make a sixth grader in 4-H roll her eyes. Another was smart enough to speak to a small gathering of progressive farmers but not thoughtful enough to take questions or engage. Bernie Sanders came pretty close last week by going after multinationals’ near-monopolies. A strong Democratic platform with realistic plans for rural America would focus on four themes: demography, infrastructure, farm sustainability and environmental practices that can help combat climate change. Up to about 30 percent of Iowa’s economy is tied directly to agriculture and related industries. The lucky farmer is in limbo; the unlucky one is itemizing inventory for the farm auction. Years of low commodity prices were a nightmare, and President Trump’s tariffs made a bad situation worse. Farmers — particularly young ones — are losing their land, and older ones are simply hanging it up. As one farmer here told us, “It’s too much work to lose money at it.” As young people flee for jobs elsewhere, many towns are dying or already dead. With improved technology and plant genetics, it takes fewer people to grow crops for America and the rest of the world. This is an unspoken topic that shapes the discussions rural Iowans want to have with the candidates. Because what lies ahead for rural America is county consolidation and more school mergers. Communities will lose more hospitals, hometown banks and manufacturing companies. Walmart devastated much of the retail base in the 1980s and ’90s, and Amazon is destroying what’s left. Toss in rural poverty on top of that. A helpful federal plan would work with local and state governments to direct infrastructure improvements and the like to “opportunity zones” with growth potential. Those communities are often the ones that have a thriving hospital and an institution of higher learning. In places with a strong manufacturing base, housing can be scarce. Here in Marion County, which is southeast of Des Moines, there is a lot of demand for housing from workers in manufacturing jobs. But developers are tough to attract: There isn’t much money in building 50 houses in Knoxville, Pleasantville or Pella, compared with constructing hundreds in the Des Moines metro. A federal plan could encourage housing in places like this. Rural hubs will survive with investment. Communities that want to invest in themselves, develop creative strategies for growth, and partner with regional development efforts should be supported. Some south central Iowa manufacturing towns have hundreds of employees who come from surrounding counties, or even Missouri. That pattern of labor flow is common in rural America. If 40 employees can gather in a dirt lot at a highway intersection in the half-hour before shift change and travel together on a bus to work and back, that’s good for the environment and for the rural pocketbook.  Rural infrastructure offers great opportunity for jobs and development: invest in our farm-to-market roads, the lock and dam systems on our great heartland rivers, and the rapid development of rural broadband. Democrats have an opportunity to put forward a smart approach to immigration. Manufacturers and farm operations need workers, but President Trump has so demonized the immigrant work force that Republicans won’t soon offer anything like a solution. The Iowa Business Council, made up of 23 executives from Iowa’s largest employers, recently stressed the need for the state to modernize the immigration system to help expand the economy. Iowa is not alone: Washington State doesn’t want apples rotting on the ground for lack of pickers; Wisconsin worries about small dairy operations desperate for people to milk the cows. Don’t demonize “Big Ag” and factory farms. It’s just liberal white noise to most involved in agriculture. Most of our farms are family-owned, not big agricultural corporations, even if they are integrated into the larger systems to one degree or another. Most need that integration to survive. Of course there’s plenty about agriculture policy to rant about. Over the past several decades, the four largest pork packers, beef packers, soybean crushers and wet corn processors have captured 71 percent to 86 percent of their respective markets. Four companies control 90 percent of the global grain trade. Congress let this happen. We need legislation that revives competition in the agricultural economy. The Green New Deal, even with its flaws, is a good place to start. The Plains States are among the leaders in solar and wind power. Equally important is inviting farmers to lead the charge in fighting global warming. Farmers can help keep carbon out of the atmosphere through a process called carbon sequestration, a natural result of the right farming practices. These include planting cover crops, leaving organic matter in fields after harvest, rotating in additional kinds of crops and managing grazing. Current farm policy pits conservation efforts against maximizing production.  Policy that stabilizes the farm economy costs pennies per meal; so would compensating farmers for environmental services. This would help all farmers, as well as improve our air, water and soil quality. At a recent Sunday meeting at a Presbyterian church nearby, farmers complained that current farm policies favor those who skip conservation and punish those who do the right thing. Rural voters also care about values. Many Iowans are people of faith, a majority of them Christian. Democratic candidates, if they look, will find a rising movement on the Christian left that is dismayed that a powerful segment of the Christian right has hijacked the faith and that it is being used as a rationale to deny refugees relief and immigrants jobs and to marginalize the sick, the poor and the hungry. The candidates — including the newcomer Beto O’Rourke — have a great opportunity this month to embrace these issues at the Heartland Forum at Buena Vista University in Storm Lake. If Democrats are willing to listen to rural America and offer policies that address our problems, they can succeed in Iowa. Robert Leonard is the news director for the Iowa radio stations KNIA and KRLS. Matt Russell is a co-owner of Coyote Run Farm and the executive director of Iowa Interfaith Power and Light.  The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported by The G.O.P. under President Trump has given liberals an opening in places like Iowa. But they need to know how to speak to voters here.  By Robert Leonard and Matt Russell Mr. Leonard is the news director for the Iowa radio stations KNIA and KRLS. Mr. Russell is the owner of Coyote Run Farm and the executive director of Iowa Interfaith Power and Light.  KNOXVILLE, Iowa — It’s caucus season here in Iowa, and Democratic presidential candidates are swarming the place like flies at a cattle barn. We’ve talked policy with Amy Klobuchar and Kirsten Gillibrand over beers, and watched Kamala Harris work the crowd at a bar in Indianola. We’ve been in what once would have been “smoke-filled rooms” with Steve Bullock and Cory Booker. We’ve been stuffed into what seemed like enormous mosh pits oozing with adoring fans of Elizabeth Warren. The Iowa caucus offers Democrats an opportunity to hone their pitch to rural America. Some of the biggest problems around here are in agriculture and trade — yet in those areas, several candidates seem clueless. One appears to know so little it would make a sixth grader in 4-H roll her eyes. Another was smart enough to speak to a small gathering of progressive farmers but not thoughtful enough to take questions or engage. Bernie Sanders came pretty close last week by going after multinationals’ near-monopolies. A strong Democratic platform with realistic plans for rural America would focus on four themes: demography, infrastructure, farm sustainability and environmental practices that can help combat climate change. Up to about 30 percent of Iowa’s economy is tied directly to agriculture and related industries. The lucky farmer is in limbo; the unlucky one is itemizing inventory for the farm auction. Years of low commodity prices were a nightmare, and President Trump’s tariffs made a bad situation worse. Farmers — particularly young ones — are losing their land, and older ones are simply hanging it up. As one farmer here told us, “It’s too much work to lose money at it.” As young people flee for jobs elsewhere, many towns are dying or already dead. With improved technology and plant genetics, it takes fewer people to grow crops for America and the rest of the world. This is an unspoken topic that shapes the discussions rural Iowans want to have with the candidates. Because what lies ahead for rural America is county consolidation and more school mergers. Communities will lose more hospitals, hometown banks and manufacturing companies. Walmart devastated much of the retail base in the 1980s and ’90s, and Amazon is destroying what’s left. Toss in rural poverty on top of that. A helpful federal plan would work with local and state governments to direct infrastructure improvements and the like to “opportunity zones” with growth potential. Those communities are often the ones that have a thriving hospital and an institution of higher learning. In places with a strong manufacturing base, housing can be scarce. Here in Marion County, which is southeast of Des Moines, there is a lot of demand for housing from workers in manufacturing jobs. But developers are tough to attract: There isn’t much money in building 50 houses in Knoxville, Pleasantville or Pella, compared with constructing hundreds in the Des Moines metro. A federal plan could encourage housing in places like this. Rural hubs will survive with investment. Communities that want to invest in themselves, develop creative strategies for growth, and partner with regional development efforts should be supported. Some south central Iowa manufacturing towns have hundreds of employees who come from surrounding counties, or even Missouri. That pattern of labor flow is common in rural America. If 40 employees can gather in a dirt lot at a highway intersection in the half-hour before shift change and travel together on a bus to work and back, that’s good for the environment and for the rural pocketbook.  Rural infrastructure offers great opportunity for jobs and development: invest in our farm-to-market roads, the lock and dam systems on our great heartland rivers, and the rapid development of rural broadband. Democrats have an opportunity to put forward a smart approach to immigration. Manufacturers and farm operations need workers, but President Trump has so demonized the immigrant work force that Republicans won’t soon offer anything like a solution. The Iowa Business Council, made up of 23 executives from Iowa’s largest employers, recently stressed the need for the state to modernize the immigration system to help expand the economy. Iowa is not alone: Washington State doesn’t want apples rotting on the ground for lack of pickers; Wisconsin worries about small dairy operations desperate for people to milk the cows. Don’t demonize “Big Ag” and factory farms. It’s just liberal white noise to most involved in agriculture. Most of our farms are family-owned, not big agricultural corporations, even if they are integrated into the larger systems to one degree or another. Most need that integration to survive. Of course there’s plenty about agriculture policy to rant about. Over the past several decades, the four largest pork packers, beef packers, soybean crushers and wet corn processors have captured 71 percent to 86 percent of their respective markets. Four companies control 90 percent of the global grain trade. Congress let this happen. We need legislation that revives competition in the agricultural economy. The Green New Deal, even with its flaws, is a good place to start. The Plains States are among the leaders in solar and wind power. Equally important is inviting farmers to lead the charge in fighting global warming. Farmers can help keep carbon out of the atmosphere through a process called carbon sequestration, a natural result of the right farming practices. These include planting cover crops, leaving organic matter in fields after harvest, rotating in additional kinds of crops and managing grazing. Current farm policy pits conservation efforts against maximizing production.  Policy that stabilizes the farm economy costs pennies per meal; so would compensating farmers for environmental services. This would help all farmers, as well as improve our air, water and soil quality. At a recent Sunday meeting at a Presbyterian church nearby, farmers complained that current farm policies favor those who skip conservation and punish those who do the right thing. Rural voters also care about values. Many Iowans are people of faith, a majority of them Christian. Democratic candidates, if they look, will find a rising movement on the Christian left that is dismayed that a powerful segment of the Christian right has hijacked the faith and that it is being used as a rationale to deny refugees relief and immigrants jobs and to marginalize the sick, the poor and the hungry. The candidates — including the newcomer Beto O’Rourke — have a great opportunity this month to embrace these issues at the Heartland Forum at Buena Vista University in Storm Lake. If Democrats are willing to listen to rural America and offer policies that address our problems, they can succeed in Iowa. Robert Leonard is the news director for the Iowa radio stations KNIA and KRLS. Matt Russell is a co-owner of Coyote Run Farm and the executive director of Iowa Interfaith Power and Light.  The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — Newly elected Rep. Sharice Davids is most proud of setting up a congressional office in part of her Kansas district she said hadn't seen one for years. For Georgia Rep. Lucy McBath, her biggest victory was passing the gun background checks legislation she advocated for after her son's shooting death. And for New York Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, her top achievement was the introduction of the landmark Green New Deal . As the Democratic freshmen lawmakers round the first 100 days of their new majority in the House, they're taking stock of their accomplishments, noting the stumbles and marking their place as a front line of resistance to President Donald Trump. "When I came here, I said the days of business as usual in the Congress are done, and I think that's what we've seen," said Rep. Lauren Underwood, D-Ill., a nurse and former Obama administration official, who took over a GOP-held seat in the Chicago suburbs. The first 100 days is often a milestone for a new Congress — an automatic, if arbitrary, moment to assess the workings of the legislative branch. This year, it's even more noteworthy because of the historic nature of the freshmen class. It is two-thirds Democrat, with more women than men on that side of the aisle. It's also the most diverse ever , with many newbies swept into office in a blue wave that followed two years of Trump. House Democrats set out an ambitious agenda with legislation on the kitchen table priorities that helped them win the majority — protecting the Affordable Care Act, imposing new ethics rules — while engaging in aggressive oversight of the Trump administration. Their investigations extend well beyond special counsel Robert Mueller's probe into Russian interference in the 2016 election as they dig into the president's business dealings and push for Trump's tax returns . But with the spotlight comes high-profile setbacks. Democrats splintered over Ocasio-Cortez's climate change proposal and exposed party divisions over Israel's treatment of Palestinians. One new lawmaker, Rashida Tlaib of Michigan, stunned some when, on Day One, she told supporters — using an expletive — that the new majority would impeach Trump. Moreover, few of their bills will ever be signed into law. In fact, most are simply resolutions that are being panned by the Senate, where Majority Leader Mitch McConnell is providing backstop with his Republican majority to keep the measures from ever making it to Trump's desk. McConnell said Pelosi's challenges resemble those Republicans have keeping their right flank in line. "I was almost tempted to call up my friend the speaker and say, 'Congratulations, you've got a Freedom Caucus on your hands,'" he told reporters Thursday, referring to the House's conservative group. House Republicans gathered on the Capitol steps for their own 100-day event, ridiculing the new majority for catering to the liberal left and failing to keep their campaign promises. "I have one question for the Democrats after their first 100 days: What have you accomplished?" Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy, R-Calif., said on Wednesday. "Name me one problem you have solved." Another Republican, Minority Whip Steve Scalise of Louisiana, warned that Democrats are veering toward socialism. As he did, a passer-by among the crowds of tourists outside the Capitol shouted, "I stand with Ilhan!" — a reference to outspoken freshman Rep. Ilhan Omar of Minnesota. Democrats know they face challenges ahead, not only in avoiding the internal divisions that stymied House Republicans when they were in power but also in delivering on their campaign promises. "For me personally, the biggest frustration has been that we're working on a lot of different things. But if you're just looking at the media, the narrative is not showing that," said freshman Democratic Rep. Katie Hill of California. "It makes it seem like all we're focusing on is the president and responding to whatever tweet of the day or the investigation and so on, but we're actually working on the issues that we were elected to do." Tlaib said the most surprising thing to her so far has been the "lack of urgency" among some in Congress. As few joined her push to impeach, she said she thinks "we're going to look back and say we wish we did more." Freshman Rep. Tom Malinowski, a Democrat who will face a potentially tough re-election in New Jersey, says part of the majority's job is to at least show voters what's possible. "There will be some things that stand no chance of enactment, and we knew that, but that's OK," Malinowski said. "Because one of our jobs is to give people hope that something better is possible if we do in 2020 what we did in 2018." At House Democrats' retreat this week in Virginia, Ocasio-Cortez said their power lies in being able "to come in as a class." Many of them say they know theirs is a historic moment, even amid the everyday challenges of being new on the job. Underwood, who gathered the freshmen to make a video showcasing what they were most proud of, acknowledged the hurdles ahead. "Moving forward, we will need to continue to work not just to pass bills in the House but do things that can gain broad support so that they can get enacted into law," she said. "People in my community are looking for impactful change — they can feel a difference." ___ Associated Press writer Alan Fram in Washington contributed to this report.

Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — Newly elected Rep. Sharice Davids is most proud of setting up a congressional office in part of her Kansas district she said hadn't seen one for years. For Georgia Rep. Lucy McBath, her biggest victory was passing the gun background checks legislation she advocated for after her son's shooting death. And for New York Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, her top achievement was the introduction of the landmark Green New Deal . As the Democratic freshmen lawmakers round the first 100 days of their new majority in the House, they're taking stock of their accomplishments, noting the stumbles and marking their place as a front line of resistance to President Donald Trump. "When I came here, I said the days of business as usual in the Congress are done, and I think that's what we've seen," said Rep. Lauren Underwood, D-Ill., a nurse and former Obama administration official, who took over a GOP-held seat in the Chicago suburbs. The first 100 days is often a milestone for a new Congress — an automatic, if arbitrary, moment to assess the workings of the legislative branch. This year, it's even more noteworthy because of the historic nature of the freshmen class. It is two-thirds Democrat, with more women than men on that side of the aisle. It's also the most diverse ever , with many newbies swept into office in a blue wave that followed two years of Trump. House Democrats set out an ambitious agenda with legislation on the kitchen table priorities that helped them win the majority — protecting the Affordable Care Act, imposing new ethics rules — while engaging in aggressive oversight of the Trump administration. Their investigations extend well beyond special counsel Robert Mueller's probe into Russian interference in the 2016 election as they dig into the president's business dealings and push for Trump's tax returns . But with the spotlight comes high-profile setbacks. Democrats splintered over Ocasio-Cortez's climate change proposal and exposed party divisions over Israel's treatment of Palestinians. One new lawmaker, Rashida Tlaib of Michigan, stunned some when, on Day One, she told supporters — using an expletive — that the new majority would impeach Trump. Moreover, few of their bills will ever be signed into law. In fact, most are simply resolutions that are being panned by the Senate, where Majority Leader Mitch McConnell is providing backstop with his Republican majority to keep the measures from ever making it to Trump's desk. McConnell said Pelosi's challenges resemble those Republicans have keeping their right flank in line. "I was almost tempted to call up my friend the speaker and say, 'Congratulations, you've got a Freedom Caucus on your hands,'" he told reporters Thursday, referring to the House's conservative group. House Republicans gathered on the Capitol steps for their own 100-day event, ridiculing the new majority for catering to the liberal left and failing to keep their campaign promises. "I have one question for the Democrats after their first 100 days: What have you accomplished?" Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy, R-Calif., said on Wednesday. "Name me one problem you have solved." Another Republican, Minority Whip Steve Scalise of Louisiana, warned that Democrats are veering toward socialism. As he did, a passer-by among the crowds of tourists outside the Capitol shouted, "I stand with Ilhan!" — a reference to outspoken freshman Rep. Ilhan Omar of Minnesota. Democrats know they face challenges ahead, not only in avoiding the internal divisions that stymied House Republicans when they were in power but also in delivering on their campaign promises. "For me personally, the biggest frustration has been that we're working on a lot of different things. But if you're just looking at the media, the narrative is not showing that," said freshman Democratic Rep. Katie Hill of California. "It makes it seem like all we're focusing on is the president and responding to whatever tweet of the day or the investigation and so on, but we're actually working on the issues that we were elected to do." Tlaib said the most surprising thing to her so far has been the "lack of urgency" among some in Congress. As few joined her push to impeach, she said she thinks "we're going to look back and say we wish we did more." Freshman Rep. Tom Malinowski, a Democrat who will face a potentially tough re-election in New Jersey, says part of the majority's job is to at least show voters what's possible. "There will be some things that stand no chance of enactment, and we knew that, but that's OK," Malinowski said. "Because one of our jobs is to give people hope that something better is possible if we do in 2020 what we did in 2018." At House Democrats' retreat this week in Virginia, Ocasio-Cortez said their power lies in being able "to come in as a class." Many of them say they know theirs is a historic moment, even amid the everyday challenges of being new on the job. Underwood, who gathered the freshmen to make a video showcasing what they were most proud of, acknowledged the hurdles ahead. "Moving forward, we will need to continue to work not just to pass bills in the House but do things that can gain broad support so that they can get enacted into law," she said. "People in my community are looking for impactful change — they can feel a difference." ___ Associated Press writer Alan Fram in Washington contributed to this report.Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — Top Democrats in the U.S. House of Representatives and Senate on Friday rejected Attorney General William Barr's proposal to allow them access to a less-redacted version of Special Counsel Robert Mueller's Russia investigation report.  In an April 19 letter to the attorney general, six Democratic lawmakers led by House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer instead reiterated their demand for Barr to release the unredacted Mueller report and underlying evidence to Congress. But they also said they were open to discussing a "reasonable accommodation" with the Justice Department. The letter was also signed by House Judiciary Committee Chairman Jerrold Nadler, House Intelligence Committee Chairman Adam Schiff, top Senate Judiciary Committee Democrat Dianne Feinstein and top Senate Intelligence Committee Democrat Mark Warner. "Your proposed accommodation - which among other things would prohibit discussion of the full report, even with other committee members - is not acceptable," the Democrats wrote.  The lawmakers said access to the full Mueller report and underlying evidence is necessary for Congress to fulfill its "constitutional responsibilities".  "This includes considering whether legislation is needed in light of the findings contained in Special Counsel Mueller’s report and the attorney general's determination that no prosecution is warranted despite those facts," the letter said.  Also on Friday, Nadler issued a subpoena to obtain the full report.  (Reporting by David Morgan; Editing by Marguerita Choy and David Gregorio)

Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — Top Democrats in the U.S. House of Representatives and Senate on Friday rejected Attorney General William Barr's proposal to allow them access to a less-redacted version of Special Counsel Robert Mueller's Russia investigation report.  In an April 19 letter to the attorney general, six Democratic lawmakers led by House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer instead reiterated their demand for Barr to release the unredacted Mueller report and underlying evidence to Congress. But they also said they were open to discussing a "reasonable accommodation" with the Justice Department. The letter was also signed by House Judiciary Committee Chairman Jerrold Nadler, House Intelligence Committee Chairman Adam Schiff, top Senate Judiciary Committee Democrat Dianne Feinstein and top Senate Intelligence Committee Democrat Mark Warner. "Your proposed accommodation - which among other things would prohibit discussion of the full report, even with other committee members - is not acceptable," the Democrats wrote.  The lawmakers said access to the full Mueller report and underlying evidence is necessary for Congress to fulfill its "constitutional responsibilities".  "This includes considering whether legislation is needed in light of the findings contained in Special Counsel Mueller’s report and the attorney general's determination that no prosecution is warranted despite those facts," the letter said.  Also on Friday, Nadler issued a subpoena to obtain the full report.  (Reporting by David Morgan; Editing by Marguerita Choy and David Gregorio)Supported by Finally, the Legislature gets to work. By Mara Gay Ms. Gay is a member of the editorial board. ALBANY — Democrats in Albany had something altogether new and unfamiliar to warm them in the bitter chill that marks the start of the legislative season: power. In November, the party won real control of the State Senate for the first time in more than a half-century. This week, Democratic senators — along with colleagues who have long controlled the Assembly — began plowing ahead with reforms that Republicans have blocked for years. On Monday, the Legislature moved to update archaic election laws by approving bills to enact early voting, to mandate that primary elections for state and federal offices be held on the same day, and to let 16- and 17-year-olds preregister to vote. Hours later, they acted to close a loophole that let shell businesses called limited liability companies avoid limits on corporate donations by treating them like individuals. This long-overdue measure should help curb the influence of dark money, particularly from real estate interests, in politics. Finally, the lawmakers went home, with Democrats, some seeming slightly dazed, posting celebratory tweets about their sudden good fortune. The next day brought more action. On Tuesday, taking up more legislation years in the making, they voted to revise the state hate crime law to include protections for transgender individuals. Lawmakers moved to ban conversion therapy, signaling an end to a bogus technique that purports to make gay people straight but ruins lives instead. Encouragingly, some Republicans joined their Democratic colleagues to support some of these measures. Not too shabby for their first two days in business. After years in the political wilderness, the state’s Democratic senators are letting the good times roll. Their leading bon vivant is Senator Andrea Stewart-Cousins, the newly minted majority leader who has seemed to relish every minute. At a news conference on Monday, Ms. Stewart-Cousins thanked those around her and then, in a plea she had made countless times while in the minority, urged Senate Republicans to begin consideration of Democratic proposals. Slight pause. Sly grin. “I’m just kidding!” she said. The members of her caucus cracked up, releasing years of frustration, their heads swinging back with joyous laughter. Ms. Stewart-Cousins threw up her hands like a champion, clapped and shouted, “Yay!” These heady times at the Capitol have some of New York’s liberals pinching themselves. Susan Lerner, the executive director of Common Cause New York, a reform group, said she was recovering from shock after watching Democrats in the first hours of the new legislative session pass voting reforms that had been stymied for years. “It’s whiplash,” Ms. Lerner said. “Is there more to do? Yes. But today, we’re celebrating.” On an Amtrak train taking chattering lobbyists, aides, journalists and lawmakers to Gov. Andrew Cuomo’s annual budget address on Tuesday, the progressives on board were giddy, a strange feeling for them on a trip to Albany in January. “I’m jazzed,” said the New York Civil Liberties Union’s executive president, Donna Lieberman. She joked that in previous years she’d often felt like she needed to take a shower after spending time in the State Capitol. Less jazzed were Senate Republicans, who after decades of uninterrupted power, now seemed vaguely lost. On Tuesday, for example, they suggested that if marijuana must be legalized, any revenue should go to a tax cut. Good luck with that. For some Republican lawmakers, a vote for a bill that would treat violence against transgender individuals as the hate crime that it is seemed particularly hard to take. From their seats in the back of the room, a couple of the Republicans rolled their eyes and snickered. At one point, State Senator Jessica Ramos, one of six members who won primaries against turncoat Democrats who had caucused with Republicans, said lawmakers should go even further to help transgender New Yorkers, leading State Senator Frederick Akshar, a Republican, to exclaim: “Jesus Christ! Further?” Even for Democrats, though, it hasn’t been all fun and reforms. In the Assembly, Speaker Carl Heastie marred an otherwise banner start to the new year by engaging in a legal maneuver to try to keep a $50,500 pay raise for lawmakers while eliminating limits on outside income set by a special committee that enacted the raise. No doubt he has better ways to spend his time. In the months ahead, bigger battles loom, like approving a congestion pricing measure to pay for an overhaul of the New York City subway, which could prove to be one of the toughest political fights in the state this year, and the most important. Many of the greatest challenges and opportunities will lie with Governor Cuomo, who is likely to sign the measures. In unveiling a $175 billion budget proposal on Tuesday, he presented an ambitious agenda, but few details. For years many felt the governor might be more comfortable with a divided Legislature that he could blame for failing to enact legislation that some voters might find controversial. But on Tuesday he said Democratic control of the State Senate left him feeling that the state had been “liberated.” He suggested it would help deliver much-needed change for New York. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported by Finally, the Legislature gets to work. By Mara Gay Ms. Gay is a member of the editorial board. ALBANY — Democrats in Albany had something altogether new and unfamiliar to warm them in the bitter chill that marks the start of the legislative season: power. In November, the party won real control of the State Senate for the first time in more than a half-century. This week, Democratic senators — along with colleagues who have long controlled the Assembly — began plowing ahead with reforms that Republicans have blocked for years. On Monday, the Legislature moved to update archaic election laws by approving bills to enact early voting, to mandate that primary elections for state and federal offices be held on the same day, and to let 16- and 17-year-olds preregister to vote. Hours later, they acted to close a loophole that let shell businesses called limited liability companies avoid limits on corporate donations by treating them like individuals. This long-overdue measure should help curb the influence of dark money, particularly from real estate interests, in politics. Finally, the lawmakers went home, with Democrats, some seeming slightly dazed, posting celebratory tweets about their sudden good fortune. The next day brought more action. On Tuesday, taking up more legislation years in the making, they voted to revise the state hate crime law to include protections for transgender individuals. Lawmakers moved to ban conversion therapy, signaling an end to a bogus technique that purports to make gay people straight but ruins lives instead. Encouragingly, some Republicans joined their Democratic colleagues to support some of these measures. Not too shabby for their first two days in business. After years in the political wilderness, the state’s Democratic senators are letting the good times roll. Their leading bon vivant is Senator Andrea Stewart-Cousins, the newly minted majority leader who has seemed to relish every minute. At a news conference on Monday, Ms. Stewart-Cousins thanked those around her and then, in a plea she had made countless times while in the minority, urged Senate Republicans to begin consideration of Democratic proposals. Slight pause. Sly grin. “I’m just kidding!” she said. The members of her caucus cracked up, releasing years of frustration, their heads swinging back with joyous laughter. Ms. Stewart-Cousins threw up her hands like a champion, clapped and shouted, “Yay!” These heady times at the Capitol have some of New York’s liberals pinching themselves. Susan Lerner, the executive director of Common Cause New York, a reform group, said she was recovering from shock after watching Democrats in the first hours of the new legislative session pass voting reforms that had been stymied for years. “It’s whiplash,” Ms. Lerner said. “Is there more to do? Yes. But today, we’re celebrating.” On an Amtrak train taking chattering lobbyists, aides, journalists and lawmakers to Gov. Andrew Cuomo’s annual budget address on Tuesday, the progressives on board were giddy, a strange feeling for them on a trip to Albany in January. “I’m jazzed,” said the New York Civil Liberties Union’s executive president, Donna Lieberman. She joked that in previous years she’d often felt like she needed to take a shower after spending time in the State Capitol. Less jazzed were Senate Republicans, who after decades of uninterrupted power, now seemed vaguely lost. On Tuesday, for example, they suggested that if marijuana must be legalized, any revenue should go to a tax cut. Good luck with that. For some Republican lawmakers, a vote for a bill that would treat violence against transgender individuals as the hate crime that it is seemed particularly hard to take. From their seats in the back of the room, a couple of the Republicans rolled their eyes and snickered. At one point, State Senator Jessica Ramos, one of six members who won primaries against turncoat Democrats who had caucused with Republicans, said lawmakers should go even further to help transgender New Yorkers, leading State Senator Frederick Akshar, a Republican, to exclaim: “Jesus Christ! Further?” Even for Democrats, though, it hasn’t been all fun and reforms. In the Assembly, Speaker Carl Heastie marred an otherwise banner start to the new year by engaging in a legal maneuver to try to keep a $50,500 pay raise for lawmakers while eliminating limits on outside income set by a special committee that enacted the raise. No doubt he has better ways to spend his time. In the months ahead, bigger battles loom, like approving a congestion pricing measure to pay for an overhaul of the New York City subway, which could prove to be one of the toughest political fights in the state this year, and the most important. Many of the greatest challenges and opportunities will lie with Governor Cuomo, who is likely to sign the measures. In unveiling a $175 billion budget proposal on Tuesday, he presented an ambitious agenda, but few details. For years many felt the governor might be more comfortable with a divided Legislature that he could blame for failing to enact legislation that some voters might find controversial. But on Tuesday he said Democratic control of the State Senate left him feeling that the state had been “liberated.” He suggested it would help deliver much-needed change for New York. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Supported by By Sheryl Gay Stolberg WASHINGTON — Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, the liberal Democratic upstart from New York, is bringing a sexual assault survivor who cornered a Republican senator in an elevator, demanding to know if he was going to vote to confirm Justice Brett M. Kavanaugh. Representative Pramila Jayapal, Democrat of Washington and a chairwoman of the Congressional Progressive Caucus, is bringing a climate change scientist. Representative Ilhan Omar, Democrat of Minnesota and a Somali refugee, is bringing a Liberian refugee who is threatened with deportation. And all will be wearing white. When President Trump delivers his State of the Union address on Tuesday night to Congress — his first under divided government — the left wing of the ascendant House Democrats will have a rare opportunity to confront him. In 2016, Republicans headed for the exits before President Barack Obama had even finished his final address, and one famously shouted, “You lie!” in 2009 when Mr. Obama addressed Congress on health care. The new Democrats — many of them women, and many of them people of color — are planning to send their own pointed messages to the president with their choices of guests and attire. Many women will wear white — the color of the women’s suffrage movement — to spotlight issues like reproductive rights and equal pay. Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the Democratic leader, will be handing out white lapel ribbons to the men. Kellyanne Conway, counselor to the president, told reporters on Monday that Mr. Trump intends to make some gestures of peace: “He’s calling for cooperation, and he’s calling for comity — c-o-m-i-t-y — and also compromise.” But he may find an inhospitable audience. “I think the goal here is to really show the tremendous step backwards that our country has taken under this president,” Ms. Jayapal told reporters on a conference call on Monday, “and to call out the very specific ways in which he has pushed policies to undermine our climate, undermine immigrants, undermine worker protections and undermine, of course, women’s reproductive rights.” [Some of the Trumps’ guests are the human faces of narratives that the president has been crafting and wishes to advance.] State of the Union addresses are almost always remembered as much for their theatrics as for their policy announcements. Mr. Trump’s, delayed one week by the partial government shutdown, is coming at a particularly tense moment — less than two weeks before the deadline for House and Senate negotiators to come up with a plan for border security that will avert another shutdown. It will also be the first Trump State of the Union address with Representative Nancy Pelosi presiding as speaker. Ms. Pelosi, Democrat of California, an institutionalist and a stickler for decorum, is unlikely to look kindly on any outbursts from her members. She will introduce him as the president of the United States, released by custom from having to utter his name. Congress-watchers are already wondering what the dynamic will be like between her and Mr. Trump — and what messages her body language and expressions will convey — when she stands behind him, captured on television cameras, during the speech. “That photograph is worth the price of admission,” said Representative Gerald E. Connolly, Democrat of Virginia, who is bringing Amer Al-Mudallal, an Iraq-born chemist who was furloughed from the Environmental Protection Agency during the record-breaking shutdown, along with his wife. “This is a president — I can’t even say he struggles with empathy; he lacks any signs of an empathic capacity to understand the suffering or plight of other people,” Mr. Connolly said, adding, “I want my guest to give witness, by virtue of being here, to the president that real human beings were negatively affected by your shutdown.” Members of Congress each get one ticket to bring a guest to the State of the Union address; sometimes they invite family members, but more often they use their tickets to make a point. Addressing gun violence is high on the agendas of several Democrats. Representative Lucy McBath, Democrat of Georgia, whose son Jordan Davis, 17, was shot to death in 2012 by a man upset that he was playing loud music, is bringing Jeff Binkley, the father of Maura Binkley, 21, who was killed last year in a shooting at a yoga studio in Tallahassee, Fla. Representative Ted Deutch, Democrat of Florida, is bringing Manny Oliver, whose son Joaquin Oliver was killed at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., during the massacre there last year. “I hope the president will take note of how the American people voted to send a gun safety majority to Congress,” Mr. Deutch said in a statement, “and live up to his previous promises to stand up to the N.R.A. and support meaningful policies to make our communities safer.” Mr. Trump’s immigration policy is also top of mind for Democrats this year. Representative Bonnie Watson Coleman, Democrat of New Jersey, is bringing Victorina Morales, an undocumented immigrant who spoke out about her work at Mr. Trump’s golf resort in Bedminster, N.J. Representative Adriano Espaillat, Democrat of New York, has invited Yeni González, a mother who was separated from her three children at the border, while Representative Veronica Escobar, a freshman Democrat from Texas, is bringing an immigrants’ rights advocate whose father has been deported to Mexico. Ms. Omar’s guest, Linda Clark, fled civil war in Liberia in 2000 and has lived in the United States for the past 18 years, but may be forced to leave because of Mr. Trump’s decision to end special protections for thousands of Liberian immigrants. Ms. Ocasio-Cortez’s guest, Ana Maria Archila, is a resident of Queens who helps direct the Center for Popular Democracy, a progressive advocacy group. She confronted Jeff Flake, then a Republican senator from Arizona, in an elevator during the Kavanaugh hearings. The encounter prompted Mr. Flake to call for an F.B.I. investigation into accusations that then-Judge Kavanaugh had sexually assaulted a women when they were in high school. In an interview, Ms. Archila said she senses a new energy this year around the State of the Union address. “Unlike last year, when Trump had the presidency and the Republicans were firmly in charge of both houses of Congress and essentially enabling his agenda to be forced on the country, this time around, the energy is with the people who protested,” she said. She added that “the wave of women” just elected “speak with so much moral clarity in the face of someone who is so willing to lie and bend the truth and fan the flames of hate and fear.”   

Supported by By Sheryl Gay Stolberg WASHINGTON — Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, the liberal Democratic upstart from New York, is bringing a sexual assault survivor who cornered a Republican senator in an elevator, demanding to know if he was going to vote to confirm Justice Brett M. Kavanaugh. Representative Pramila Jayapal, Democrat of Washington and a chairwoman of the Congressional Progressive Caucus, is bringing a climate change scientist. Representative Ilhan Omar, Democrat of Minnesota and a Somali refugee, is bringing a Liberian refugee who is threatened with deportation. And all will be wearing white. When President Trump delivers his State of the Union address on Tuesday night to Congress — his first under divided government — the left wing of the ascendant House Democrats will have a rare opportunity to confront him. In 2016, Republicans headed for the exits before President Barack Obama had even finished his final address, and one famously shouted, “You lie!” in 2009 when Mr. Obama addressed Congress on health care. The new Democrats — many of them women, and many of them people of color — are planning to send their own pointed messages to the president with their choices of guests and attire. Many women will wear white — the color of the women’s suffrage movement — to spotlight issues like reproductive rights and equal pay. Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the Democratic leader, will be handing out white lapel ribbons to the men. Kellyanne Conway, counselor to the president, told reporters on Monday that Mr. Trump intends to make some gestures of peace: “He’s calling for cooperation, and he’s calling for comity — c-o-m-i-t-y — and also compromise.” But he may find an inhospitable audience. “I think the goal here is to really show the tremendous step backwards that our country has taken under this president,” Ms. Jayapal told reporters on a conference call on Monday, “and to call out the very specific ways in which he has pushed policies to undermine our climate, undermine immigrants, undermine worker protections and undermine, of course, women’s reproductive rights.” [Some of the Trumps’ guests are the human faces of narratives that the president has been crafting and wishes to advance.] State of the Union addresses are almost always remembered as much for their theatrics as for their policy announcements. Mr. Trump’s, delayed one week by the partial government shutdown, is coming at a particularly tense moment — less than two weeks before the deadline for House and Senate negotiators to come up with a plan for border security that will avert another shutdown. It will also be the first Trump State of the Union address with Representative Nancy Pelosi presiding as speaker. Ms. Pelosi, Democrat of California, an institutionalist and a stickler for decorum, is unlikely to look kindly on any outbursts from her members. She will introduce him as the president of the United States, released by custom from having to utter his name. Congress-watchers are already wondering what the dynamic will be like between her and Mr. Trump — and what messages her body language and expressions will convey — when she stands behind him, captured on television cameras, during the speech. “That photograph is worth the price of admission,” said Representative Gerald E. Connolly, Democrat of Virginia, who is bringing Amer Al-Mudallal, an Iraq-born chemist who was furloughed from the Environmental Protection Agency during the record-breaking shutdown, along with his wife. “This is a president — I can’t even say he struggles with empathy; he lacks any signs of an empathic capacity to understand the suffering or plight of other people,” Mr. Connolly said, adding, “I want my guest to give witness, by virtue of being here, to the president that real human beings were negatively affected by your shutdown.” Members of Congress each get one ticket to bring a guest to the State of the Union address; sometimes they invite family members, but more often they use their tickets to make a point. Addressing gun violence is high on the agendas of several Democrats. Representative Lucy McBath, Democrat of Georgia, whose son Jordan Davis, 17, was shot to death in 2012 by a man upset that he was playing loud music, is bringing Jeff Binkley, the father of Maura Binkley, 21, who was killed last year in a shooting at a yoga studio in Tallahassee, Fla. Representative Ted Deutch, Democrat of Florida, is bringing Manny Oliver, whose son Joaquin Oliver was killed at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., during the massacre there last year. “I hope the president will take note of how the American people voted to send a gun safety majority to Congress,” Mr. Deutch said in a statement, “and live up to his previous promises to stand up to the N.R.A. and support meaningful policies to make our communities safer.” Mr. Trump’s immigration policy is also top of mind for Democrats this year. Representative Bonnie Watson Coleman, Democrat of New Jersey, is bringing Victorina Morales, an undocumented immigrant who spoke out about her work at Mr. Trump’s golf resort in Bedminster, N.J. Representative Adriano Espaillat, Democrat of New York, has invited Yeni González, a mother who was separated from her three children at the border, while Representative Veronica Escobar, a freshman Democrat from Texas, is bringing an immigrants’ rights advocate whose father has been deported to Mexico. Ms. Omar’s guest, Linda Clark, fled civil war in Liberia in 2000 and has lived in the United States for the past 18 years, but may be forced to leave because of Mr. Trump’s decision to end special protections for thousands of Liberian immigrants. Ms. Ocasio-Cortez’s guest, Ana Maria Archila, is a resident of Queens who helps direct the Center for Popular Democracy, a progressive advocacy group. She confronted Jeff Flake, then a Republican senator from Arizona, in an elevator during the Kavanaugh hearings. The encounter prompted Mr. Flake to call for an F.B.I. investigation into accusations that then-Judge Kavanaugh had sexually assaulted a women when they were in high school. In an interview, Ms. Archila said she senses a new energy this year around the State of the Union address. “Unlike last year, when Trump had the presidency and the Republicans were firmly in charge of both houses of Congress and essentially enabling his agenda to be forced on the country, this time around, the energy is with the people who protested,” she said. She added that “the wave of women” just elected “speak with so much moral clarity in the face of someone who is so willing to lie and bend the truth and fan the flames of hate and fear.”   Supported by By Reuters HELSINKI — Finland's Social Democrats and the nationalist Finns Party landed nearly tied in first place in a general election on Sunday, with 17.7 percent and 17.5 percent of votes, respectively, justice ministry data showed. The co-ruling Centre Party of Prime Minister Juha Sipila and the center-right National Coalition stood at 13.8 percent and 17.0 percent, respectively.  (Reporting by Justyna Pawlak and Anne Kauranen)

Supported by By Reuters HELSINKI — Finland's Social Democrats and the nationalist Finns Party landed nearly tied in first place in a general election on Sunday, with 17.7 percent and 17.5 percent of votes, respectively, justice ministry data showed. The co-ruling Centre Party of Prime Minister Juha Sipila and the center-right National Coalition stood at 13.8 percent and 17.0 percent, respectively.  (Reporting by Justyna Pawlak and Anne Kauranen)Supported by By Michael M. Grynbaum Chris Wallace sounded a little bit wistful, and a little bit wry. “I’m disappointed,” he said by telephone on Thursday. “There would have been a certain man-bites-dog quality to it: the Democrats showing up on Fox.” But Mr. Wallace, the “Fox News Sunday” moderator, had to put aside his hope for a Fox News-sponsored Democratic primary debate on Wednesday, when Democratic officials rejected the idea in an unusually sharp rebuke. “To be banned, or boycotted, for the 12 debates over the next year, is kind of stunning,” he said in his first extended comments on the matter. “There are a lot of voters that a Democrat is going to need to get elected president who watch Fox News. People in the Rust Belt states, the rural areas that Hillary Clinton lost. They would have been able to see the Democratic candidates make their arguments about why they’re better able to represent their interests.” The Democratic chairman, Tom Perez, attributed his rejection of Fox News in part to an article published by The New Yorker that, he wrote, chronicled “the inappropriate relationship between President Trump, his administration and Fox News.” Mr. Wallace — a formidable interviewer who in 2016 became the first Fox News journalist to moderate a general election debate — seemed dubious about that. “Do I think Tom Perez read the New Yorker article and suddenly said, ‘Oh, my gosh, there’s gambling going on in the back room?’ No,” he said. “There is a visceral antipathy to Fox News among the left wing of the Democratic Party, and I think they saw this as a good opportunity to make a decision that I’m sure the D.N.C. was under a lot of pressure to make.” Fox News has had poor luck persuading Democrats to allow its journalists — who, the network says, operate separately from its partisan pundits — to host an official forum for the party’s presidential candidates. Executives there spent months lobbying Democratic officials for a 2020 opportunity, though its prospects this time looked dimmer than ever. After all, Mr. Trump is a devoted viewer who responds in real-time to “Fox & Friends,” counts a former Fox News co-president as his deputy chief of staff, dines at the White House with Fox News stars like Sean Hannity and Jesse Watters, consults with Fox News commentators on policy decisions and sees his talking points beamed back at him every weeknight during the Fox News prime-time block. So, do the Democrats kind of have a point? “I can understand where some of the programming on Fox News, at various parts of the day, would give Democrats heartburn,” Mr. Wallace said. “I can also understand why there’s programming on in parts of the day on CNN and MSNBC — or, frankly, on the broadcast networks — that would give Donald Trump and Republicans heartburn. “The question is, can you distinguish between the serious straight news reporters and the opinion people?” he added, noting that Rachel Maddow, the liberal opinion host, co-moderated an NBC News debate with Hillary Clinton and Senator Bernie Sanders in 2016. “Sean Hannity and our other opinion people aren’t going to be onstage with the candidates,” Mr. Wallace added, of a potential Fox News debate. Mr. Perez, the Democratic chairman, went out of his way to praise Mr. Wallace during a pair of TV appearances on Wednesday, telling Chris Hayes on MSNBC that “my concern is not about Chris Wallace — it’s about people above Chris Wallace.” (Mr. Wallace said that he expected Mr. Perez to return to his “Fox News Sunday” program, and that Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts had agreed to appear, as well.) While some liberals expressed glee at the Democrats’ decision, the CNN host Chris Cuomo on Wednesday subjected Mr. Perez to an on-air grilling about the logic behind his decision. “It seems like you’re just asking for more division in a campaign season that’s supposed to be about trying to find ways have less division,” Mr. Cuomo said. “I see my role as making sure that everything we do is ensuring that our candidates are treated fairly,” Mr. Perez replied. The president also weighed in, piping up on Twitter to threaten a boycott of debates moderated by “Fake News Networks” in the general election. “This does give President Trump a pretty good excuse to decide if and when he’ll do debates in the general election,” Mr. Wallace said. “If the Democrats are going to boycott certain venues, maybe the president will, too.” “I think that’d be a huge mistake; I think that’d be bad for the country,” he added. “But the Democrats have opened the door to the president being able to say now we’re going to pick and choose where we answer questions from.”   

Supported by By Michael M. Grynbaum Chris Wallace sounded a little bit wistful, and a little bit wry. “I’m disappointed,” he said by telephone on Thursday. “There would have been a certain man-bites-dog quality to it: the Democrats showing up on Fox.” But Mr. Wallace, the “Fox News Sunday” moderator, had to put aside his hope for a Fox News-sponsored Democratic primary debate on Wednesday, when Democratic officials rejected the idea in an unusually sharp rebuke. “To be banned, or boycotted, for the 12 debates over the next year, is kind of stunning,” he said in his first extended comments on the matter. “There are a lot of voters that a Democrat is going to need to get elected president who watch Fox News. People in the Rust Belt states, the rural areas that Hillary Clinton lost. They would have been able to see the Democratic candidates make their arguments about why they’re better able to represent their interests.” The Democratic chairman, Tom Perez, attributed his rejection of Fox News in part to an article published by The New Yorker that, he wrote, chronicled “the inappropriate relationship between President Trump, his administration and Fox News.” Mr. Wallace — a formidable interviewer who in 2016 became the first Fox News journalist to moderate a general election debate — seemed dubious about that. “Do I think Tom Perez read the New Yorker article and suddenly said, ‘Oh, my gosh, there’s gambling going on in the back room?’ No,” he said. “There is a visceral antipathy to Fox News among the left wing of the Democratic Party, and I think they saw this as a good opportunity to make a decision that I’m sure the D.N.C. was under a lot of pressure to make.” Fox News has had poor luck persuading Democrats to allow its journalists — who, the network says, operate separately from its partisan pundits — to host an official forum for the party’s presidential candidates. Executives there spent months lobbying Democratic officials for a 2020 opportunity, though its prospects this time looked dimmer than ever. After all, Mr. Trump is a devoted viewer who responds in real-time to “Fox & Friends,” counts a former Fox News co-president as his deputy chief of staff, dines at the White House with Fox News stars like Sean Hannity and Jesse Watters, consults with Fox News commentators on policy decisions and sees his talking points beamed back at him every weeknight during the Fox News prime-time block. So, do the Democrats kind of have a point? “I can understand where some of the programming on Fox News, at various parts of the day, would give Democrats heartburn,” Mr. Wallace said. “I can also understand why there’s programming on in parts of the day on CNN and MSNBC — or, frankly, on the broadcast networks — that would give Donald Trump and Republicans heartburn. “The question is, can you distinguish between the serious straight news reporters and the opinion people?” he added, noting that Rachel Maddow, the liberal opinion host, co-moderated an NBC News debate with Hillary Clinton and Senator Bernie Sanders in 2016. “Sean Hannity and our other opinion people aren’t going to be onstage with the candidates,” Mr. Wallace added, of a potential Fox News debate. Mr. Perez, the Democratic chairman, went out of his way to praise Mr. Wallace during a pair of TV appearances on Wednesday, telling Chris Hayes on MSNBC that “my concern is not about Chris Wallace — it’s about people above Chris Wallace.” (Mr. Wallace said that he expected Mr. Perez to return to his “Fox News Sunday” program, and that Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts had agreed to appear, as well.) While some liberals expressed glee at the Democrats’ decision, the CNN host Chris Cuomo on Wednesday subjected Mr. Perez to an on-air grilling about the logic behind his decision. “It seems like you’re just asking for more division in a campaign season that’s supposed to be about trying to find ways have less division,” Mr. Cuomo said. “I see my role as making sure that everything we do is ensuring that our candidates are treated fairly,” Mr. Perez replied. The president also weighed in, piping up on Twitter to threaten a boycott of debates moderated by “Fake News Networks” in the general election. “This does give President Trump a pretty good excuse to decide if and when he’ll do debates in the general election,” Mr. Wallace said. “If the Democrats are going to boycott certain venues, maybe the president will, too.” “I think that’d be a huge mistake; I think that’d be bad for the country,” he added. “But the Democrats have opened the door to the president being able to say now we’re going to pick and choose where we answer questions from.”   Supported by By Sheryl Gay Stolberg WASHINGTON — As the most diverse freshman class in history settles into the House of Representatives, newcomers like Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York and Rashida Tlaib of Michigan have been racking up social media followers and soaking up the spotlight, liberal firebrands largely elected to safe Democratic seats. But overlooked in the hallway protests and often glowing news media coverage, a larger group of more centrist Democrats has arrived with a different agenda. And now, they are quietly asserting their influence as the partial government shutdown, which has left them scrambling to explain why 800,000 workers are still without pay, enters its fifth week. The centrists, elected to seats held last year by Republicans, delivered Democrats their House majority, and their re-elections will be critical to keeping the party in power. They include a sizable subset with backgrounds in military, intelligence and national security, and won by promising to work across the aisle and to end dysfunction in Washington. Now they are caught in the most dysfunctional situation of all — a record-breaking shutdown — and they are under pressure from constituents to do something about it. [The Latest: In White House Address, Trump Proposes DACA Deal in Exchange for Wall Funding] This past week, a group of freshmen in Trump-leaning districts convened a private strategy session to discuss how they could press Speaker Nancy Pelosi to reclaim the issue of border security for Democrats and to open the door to negotiations with President Trump. Some also aired their frustrations with Representative Hakeem Jeffries, the chairman of the Democratic caucus, who hosted a small dinner for freshmen from battleground districts. “We have very real credibility on the border security issue,” said Representative Jason Crow, Democrat of Colorado and a former Army ranger. “I did two combat deployments to Afghanistan. Both of those were on the Afghan-Pakistan border interdicting drug and gun smuggling and insurgents coming across from Pakistan and the tribal regions. So I like to think I know a thing or two about border security, and you don’t do it by building walls.” Ms. Pelosi appears ready to listen. When Congress returns to Washington in the coming week, she is expected to bring up legislation that will include an additional $1 billion for border security measures, including 75 additional immigration judges and infrastructure improvements at ports of entry — though no money for Mr. Trump’s cherished border wall. She is also weighing whether to propose a Democratic homeland security bill that could lay the foundation for talks with Mr. Trump — a step that would be a significant shift in strategy for the new majority, which has instead spent the past several weeks emphasizing the shutdown’s emotional and financial toll on unpaid workers. “As someone who worked on preserving the homeland her entire life, I’m ready to talk about homeland security,” said Representative Elissa Slotkin, Democrat of Michigan, a former Pentagon official who also served in the C.I.A., and who organized the strategy session. “I don’t think we need a wall from sea to shining sea. But am I willing to talk about more fencing and more drones and technology and radar and border agents? Absolutely.” Of the roughly 60 new Democrats in Congress, two-thirds, including a tight-knit group of 10 who are either veterans or have national security experience, flipped Republican seats. They represent a very different face of the party: pragmatic moderates who believe they were elected not just to resist the president but also to cooperate with him where they can. “Every single one of them ran on a platform of going out to Washington, shaking things up and getting things done,” said Representative Cheri Bustos of Illinois, a member of Democratic leadership who focuses on electing Democrats in Trump districts. “From the day they were sworn in, the government has been shut down, and they don’t like it and the people they represent don’t like it.” Several of the freshman Democratic centrists, all members of a bipartisan group called the Problem Solvers Caucus, met with Mr. Trump at the White House this past week. Representative Abigail Spanberger of Virginia, a former C.I.A. operative who handled and recruited spies in Europe, said she told Mr. Trump that people in her district, including prison officials and Transportation Security Administration officers, are suffering. She said Mr. Trump did a surprising amount of listening. “I can’t speak for how he interpreted what we said, or how he listened to that information,” she said, “but it was a calm meeting. Most people spoke multiple times, and so I found that to be a positive thing.” But while Democratic leaders understand the eagerness to quickly end the shutdown — a sentiment shared by Democrats across the philosophical spectrum — they are also urging caution, and sticking to their insistence that they will not negotiate with Mr. Trump on border security until the government is fully open. “It’s fair to say that the freshman members of Congress, particularly the veterans and national security professionals, were sent to Washington to solve problems, and they would like to resolve the issue of border security in a bipartisan way,” Mr. Jeffries said. “That is the position of the House Democratic caucus as well, but it’s just a question of timing and the Republican willingness to stop acting like wholly owned subsidiaries of the Trump administration and engage in a meaningful conversation.” After just three weeks in Washington, many of the centrists say the partisan split in the Capitol is even worse than they had imagined, and some have been quietly reaching out to freshman Republicans to see if they can find a way to bridge the divide and end the shutdown. “When I think about being deployed on an aircraft carrier and we are simultaneously launching strikes against terrorist targets in Iraq and Afghanistan and I’m supervising the operation at the nuclear reactors, I don’t turn to one of the operators next to me and say, ‘Are you a Democrat or a Republican?’” said Representative Elaine Luria, Democrat of Virginia, who spent 20 years as a surface warfare officer and nuclear engineer in the Navy. “We’re all very frustrated by the partisanship.” Ms. Slotkin, who was an acting assistant secretary of defense under former President Barack Obama, described what she called a lack of evidence-based planning to secure the border. “If I was back at the Defense Department, we would look at an objective needs assessment for securing the border and we would build a budget to fund that security, and we would be negotiating on it,” she said. But she said that when she asked senior House members if such a document existed, she was told that the White House had its needs assessment and Democrats had theirs — and that neither was “truly objective.” In talking points issued to Democrats, Ms. Pelosi’s office ticked off a list of items that the party favors as part of a plan for “strong, smart, effective border security,” including scanning technology at ports of entry to screen for drugs and weapons, drones and radar to spot migrants crossing illegally, filling more than 3,000 vacancies for customs officers and building up infrastructure at official border crossings. The “service candidates,” as the veterans and national security professionals call themselves, see themselves taking a leading role in articulating that vision. In addition to discussing the financial toll of the shutdown, Representative Mikie Sherrill of New Jersey, a former federal prosecutor and Navy pilot, said Democrats needed to start underlining the “safety aspect” as well: “While we are arguing over border security, we’re not paying our Customs and Border Patrol agents, so we’re creating less security right now.” But the emphasis on border security may not sit well with their more progressive colleagues, who are more apt to talk about abolishing the Immigrations and Customs Enforcement agency than stopping the flow of drugs at the southern border with Mexico. “I don’t think we need to try to out-border security the Republicans at this point with this president,” said Corbin Trent, the communications director for Ms. Ocasio-Cortez. “It makes more sense to focus on ways of creating an immigration system to bring people into this country to help build our economy and our society, rather than to help keep them out.” But Ms. Slotkin said it was time for the voices of those who flipped districts to be heard. “By the numbers, we should and do have a strong voice in the caucus,” she said, adding, “I think Alexandria has done a great job of attracting new young people into the political process and getting people engaged. I think that’s a good thing. Do I think she always represents every freshman? No.”

Supported by By Sheryl Gay Stolberg WASHINGTON — As the most diverse freshman class in history settles into the House of Representatives, newcomers like Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York and Rashida Tlaib of Michigan have been racking up social media followers and soaking up the spotlight, liberal firebrands largely elected to safe Democratic seats. But overlooked in the hallway protests and often glowing news media coverage, a larger group of more centrist Democrats has arrived with a different agenda. And now, they are quietly asserting their influence as the partial government shutdown, which has left them scrambling to explain why 800,000 workers are still without pay, enters its fifth week. The centrists, elected to seats held last year by Republicans, delivered Democrats their House majority, and their re-elections will be critical to keeping the party in power. They include a sizable subset with backgrounds in military, intelligence and national security, and won by promising to work across the aisle and to end dysfunction in Washington. Now they are caught in the most dysfunctional situation of all — a record-breaking shutdown — and they are under pressure from constituents to do something about it. [The Latest: In White House Address, Trump Proposes DACA Deal in Exchange for Wall Funding] This past week, a group of freshmen in Trump-leaning districts convened a private strategy session to discuss how they could press Speaker Nancy Pelosi to reclaim the issue of border security for Democrats and to open the door to negotiations with President Trump. Some also aired their frustrations with Representative Hakeem Jeffries, the chairman of the Democratic caucus, who hosted a small dinner for freshmen from battleground districts. “We have very real credibility on the border security issue,” said Representative Jason Crow, Democrat of Colorado and a former Army ranger. “I did two combat deployments to Afghanistan. Both of those were on the Afghan-Pakistan border interdicting drug and gun smuggling and insurgents coming across from Pakistan and the tribal regions. So I like to think I know a thing or two about border security, and you don’t do it by building walls.” Ms. Pelosi appears ready to listen. When Congress returns to Washington in the coming week, she is expected to bring up legislation that will include an additional $1 billion for border security measures, including 75 additional immigration judges and infrastructure improvements at ports of entry — though no money for Mr. Trump’s cherished border wall. She is also weighing whether to propose a Democratic homeland security bill that could lay the foundation for talks with Mr. Trump — a step that would be a significant shift in strategy for the new majority, which has instead spent the past several weeks emphasizing the shutdown’s emotional and financial toll on unpaid workers. “As someone who worked on preserving the homeland her entire life, I’m ready to talk about homeland security,” said Representative Elissa Slotkin, Democrat of Michigan, a former Pentagon official who also served in the C.I.A., and who organized the strategy session. “I don’t think we need a wall from sea to shining sea. But am I willing to talk about more fencing and more drones and technology and radar and border agents? Absolutely.” Of the roughly 60 new Democrats in Congress, two-thirds, including a tight-knit group of 10 who are either veterans or have national security experience, flipped Republican seats. They represent a very different face of the party: pragmatic moderates who believe they were elected not just to resist the president but also to cooperate with him where they can. “Every single one of them ran on a platform of going out to Washington, shaking things up and getting things done,” said Representative Cheri Bustos of Illinois, a member of Democratic leadership who focuses on electing Democrats in Trump districts. “From the day they were sworn in, the government has been shut down, and they don’t like it and the people they represent don’t like it.” Several of the freshman Democratic centrists, all members of a bipartisan group called the Problem Solvers Caucus, met with Mr. Trump at the White House this past week. Representative Abigail Spanberger of Virginia, a former C.I.A. operative who handled and recruited spies in Europe, said she told Mr. Trump that people in her district, including prison officials and Transportation Security Administration officers, are suffering. She said Mr. Trump did a surprising amount of listening. “I can’t speak for how he interpreted what we said, or how he listened to that information,” she said, “but it was a calm meeting. Most people spoke multiple times, and so I found that to be a positive thing.” But while Democratic leaders understand the eagerness to quickly end the shutdown — a sentiment shared by Democrats across the philosophical spectrum — they are also urging caution, and sticking to their insistence that they will not negotiate with Mr. Trump on border security until the government is fully open. “It’s fair to say that the freshman members of Congress, particularly the veterans and national security professionals, were sent to Washington to solve problems, and they would like to resolve the issue of border security in a bipartisan way,” Mr. Jeffries said. “That is the position of the House Democratic caucus as well, but it’s just a question of timing and the Republican willingness to stop acting like wholly owned subsidiaries of the Trump administration and engage in a meaningful conversation.” After just three weeks in Washington, many of the centrists say the partisan split in the Capitol is even worse than they had imagined, and some have been quietly reaching out to freshman Republicans to see if they can find a way to bridge the divide and end the shutdown. “When I think about being deployed on an aircraft carrier and we are simultaneously launching strikes against terrorist targets in Iraq and Afghanistan and I’m supervising the operation at the nuclear reactors, I don’t turn to one of the operators next to me and say, ‘Are you a Democrat or a Republican?’” said Representative Elaine Luria, Democrat of Virginia, who spent 20 years as a surface warfare officer and nuclear engineer in the Navy. “We’re all very frustrated by the partisanship.” Ms. Slotkin, who was an acting assistant secretary of defense under former President Barack Obama, described what she called a lack of evidence-based planning to secure the border. “If I was back at the Defense Department, we would look at an objective needs assessment for securing the border and we would build a budget to fund that security, and we would be negotiating on it,” she said. But she said that when she asked senior House members if such a document existed, she was told that the White House had its needs assessment and Democrats had theirs — and that neither was “truly objective.” In talking points issued to Democrats, Ms. Pelosi’s office ticked off a list of items that the party favors as part of a plan for “strong, smart, effective border security,” including scanning technology at ports of entry to screen for drugs and weapons, drones and radar to spot migrants crossing illegally, filling more than 3,000 vacancies for customs officers and building up infrastructure at official border crossings. The “service candidates,” as the veterans and national security professionals call themselves, see themselves taking a leading role in articulating that vision. In addition to discussing the financial toll of the shutdown, Representative Mikie Sherrill of New Jersey, a former federal prosecutor and Navy pilot, said Democrats needed to start underlining the “safety aspect” as well: “While we are arguing over border security, we’re not paying our Customs and Border Patrol agents, so we’re creating less security right now.” But the emphasis on border security may not sit well with their more progressive colleagues, who are more apt to talk about abolishing the Immigrations and Customs Enforcement agency than stopping the flow of drugs at the southern border with Mexico. “I don’t think we need to try to out-border security the Republicans at this point with this president,” said Corbin Trent, the communications director for Ms. Ocasio-Cortez. “It makes more sense to focus on ways of creating an immigration system to bring people into this country to help build our economy and our society, rather than to help keep them out.” But Ms. Slotkin said it was time for the voices of those who flipped districts to be heard. “By the numbers, we should and do have a strong voice in the caucus,” she said, adding, “I think Alexandria has done a great job of attracting new young people into the political process and getting people engaged. I think that’s a good thing. Do I think she always represents every freshman? No.”Supported by By Lisa Lerer and Astead W. Herndon Call them the announcements that weren’t. Over the past two days, Michael R. Bloomberg, the former New York City mayor; Eric H. Holder Jr., the former United States attorney general; and Senator Jeff Merkley of Oregon officially declared … drumroll, please … that they would not be running for president in 2020. A fourth Democrat, Hillary Clinton, also said “I’m not running” to a New York City television station. Such is the state of Democratic fervor to challenge President Trump that the party now has a subset of politicians: the almost-rans. Mr. Bloomberg said he felt his time and personal fortune would be better used promoting immigration reform and gun control and fighting climate change. Mr. Holder wants to continue focusing on ending gerrymandering. Mrs. Clinton, who never seriously pursued a third primary bid, said she would keep “standing up for what I believe.” And Mr. Merkley will seek a third term in the Senate in 2020, after the State Legislature rejected his request to allow him to run for both positions simultaneously. [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] “I have felt like I’m sitting on a fence, and I’m getting really uncomfortable sitting on those pickets,” said Mr. Merkley in an interview. “At some point, you just have to say, ‘O.K., I’ve weighed it and reweighed and here’s the right thing to do.’” But there are also other challenges and obstacles facing potential 2020 candidates right now. There are already 14 Democrats running for president, and there is a good chance that a 15th one could enter in the coming weeks: former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., who would take up a significant share of the ever-thinning oxygen in the packed race. Another big name, former Representative Beto O’Rourke, is also expected to announce his presidential intentions soon. Mr. Biden and Mr. O’Rourke would add enormous pressure to the competition among the candidates for aides, donations, volunteers, media attention and voter support. The primary race has already created at least one star, with Senator Kamala Harris, of California, attracting enthusiastic admirers who regularly express the hope that they are witnessing the party’s “next Obama.” While the four Democrats who just said no to 2020 did not appear intimidated by a Harris, Biden or O’Rourke candidacy, building an organization and commanding attention only gets harder amid multiple star candidates. There’s also the looming deadline of March 31, when candidates must report their first quarter finances to the Federal Election Commission. Those returns will be scrutinized as an early show of relative strength — or weakness — in the race. “There is a sense that if you’re going to build a presidential team, if you’re going to build the fund-raising base, you’re going to have to work night and day, and you can’t wait forever to do that,” said Mr. Merkley. “There’s a compelling sense of many people feeling like you’ve got to decide by the end of the first quarter.” Candidates who can self-finance their campaigns, like Mr. Bloomberg, would still face a fierce competition to be heard, not only among others in the race but amid intensifying efforts by Democrats on Capitol Hill to investigate the Trump administration. Even the first Democratic debate in June doesn’t hold the promise of much airtime: Depending on how many candidates qualify, the event could become a two-night affair, with candidates assigned a spot based on a random drawing. It didn’t go unnoticed by Mr. Bloomberg that he was the last billionaire considering a bid for the Democratic nomination. Tom Steyer, the California liberal activist, opted against running earlier this year, and if the former Starbucks chief executive Howard Schultz runs, he has said he would do so as an independent. “I believe I would defeat Donald Trump in a general election,” Mr. Bloomberg wrote in a column published Tuesday. “But I am cleareyed about the difficulty of winning the Democratic nomination in such a crowded field.” Populist progressives like Senators Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren have made combating the influence of money in politics a core message of their presidential candidacies — arguments that might have proved challenging for Mr. Bloomberg, whose aides said he would spend at least $500 million of his own fortune to defeat President Trump in 2020. Mr. Bloomberg’s moderate, pro-business record and generally favorable view of Wall Street would likely also have posed problems in a party that has shifted left on economic issues like taxing the rich and regulating big banks. Some of those arguments could have posed challenges for Mrs. Clinton, too, who spent decades cultivating a network of high-dollar donors and close relationships with Wall Street to fund her campaigns. Democrats lost more than 1,000 seats in state legislatures and governorships during President Barack Obama’s two terms in the Oval Office, and those defeats found increased scrutiny once Mr. Trump ascended into the presidency and the Democrats held diminished political power. In the three years since, grass-roots organizations and Democratic Party leaders have pledged to take recruitment and support for nonpresidential races more seriously, leading some candidates who had considered a run for president to look further down the ticket. In Mr. Merkley’s video announcing that he would not run, he said, “We need both strong leadership in the Oval Office and strong leadership in the Senate,” a sentiment that was met with applause on social media. Stacey Abrams, the Georgia Democrat who lost her bid for governor in 2018, is being heavily recruited for another statewide race in Georgia. . Mr. O’Rourke, the charismatic Texas Democrat who is expected to run for president after losing a Senate bid in 2018, has also faced several calls to focus his energy at home. [Who’s in? Who’s out? Keep up with the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.] Jeff Hauser, of the Center for Economic and Policy Research in Washington, tweeted that other Democrats should take a page from Mr. Merkley’s “principled and realistic playbook” and run for Senate. “We need to address the climate crisis, confirm judges & Justices, and in general begin the process of De-Trumpification,” he wrote. Mr. Bloomberg’s non-announcement announcement included plans to invest further in climate activism, which is another way Democrats are choosing to focus on the party’s overall health. Mr. Steyer decided he would instead put his money behind efforts to impeach Mr. Trump. Both Mr. Steyer and Mr. Bloomberg said that, unlike Mr. Schultz, they would not consider a third-party run, which could risk helping Mr. Trump win re-election by siphoning votes from the Democratic candidate. Another thing the four non-candidates have in common: They all represent the back end of a rapidly changing Democratic Party. After their defeat in the 2016 presidential election, a more liberal, more uncompromising wing of the party begin to emerge, desperate to throw off the institutional connections to more centrist figures like the Clintons and Mr. Obama. It was this wing that has helped move presidential candidates further to the left, pushing them to embrace policies like “Medicare for all,” the Green New Deal and the rejection of corporate PAC money. The new crop of Democrats are also more keen to talk about the importance of a candidate’s identity, particularly millennials and nonwhite activists who are driving grass-roots changes among Democrats — “Anybody But a White Guy 2020,” reads a popular sign at presidential rallies. And youth-led social movements about sexual harassment, racial justice, and gun control in recent years have forced Democrats to answer uncomfortable questions about the lack of equitable representation among their caucus in terms of race, gender, and class. Figures such as Mrs. Clinton, Mr. Bloomberg and Mr. Holder would have been an ideological mismatch for this emerging leftist voice. Mrs. Clinton already struggled to appease the party’s left flank during her 2016 run, and the litmus test issues have only moved further from her core policy center since. Social justice activists were raring to challenge Mr. Holder on his record on police reform as head of Department of Justice. Even Mr. Sanders seemed caught off guard during a recent appearance on The Breakfast Club, the urban radio show targeted to millennials, when a host asked him, “Do we need another white guy as president?”   

Supported by By Lisa Lerer and Astead W. Herndon Call them the announcements that weren’t. Over the past two days, Michael R. Bloomberg, the former New York City mayor; Eric H. Holder Jr., the former United States attorney general; and Senator Jeff Merkley of Oregon officially declared … drumroll, please … that they would not be running for president in 2020. A fourth Democrat, Hillary Clinton, also said “I’m not running” to a New York City television station. Such is the state of Democratic fervor to challenge President Trump that the party now has a subset of politicians: the almost-rans. Mr. Bloomberg said he felt his time and personal fortune would be better used promoting immigration reform and gun control and fighting climate change. Mr. Holder wants to continue focusing on ending gerrymandering. Mrs. Clinton, who never seriously pursued a third primary bid, said she would keep “standing up for what I believe.” And Mr. Merkley will seek a third term in the Senate in 2020, after the State Legislature rejected his request to allow him to run for both positions simultaneously. [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] “I have felt like I’m sitting on a fence, and I’m getting really uncomfortable sitting on those pickets,” said Mr. Merkley in an interview. “At some point, you just have to say, ‘O.K., I’ve weighed it and reweighed and here’s the right thing to do.’” But there are also other challenges and obstacles facing potential 2020 candidates right now. There are already 14 Democrats running for president, and there is a good chance that a 15th one could enter in the coming weeks: former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., who would take up a significant share of the ever-thinning oxygen in the packed race. Another big name, former Representative Beto O’Rourke, is also expected to announce his presidential intentions soon. Mr. Biden and Mr. O’Rourke would add enormous pressure to the competition among the candidates for aides, donations, volunteers, media attention and voter support. The primary race has already created at least one star, with Senator Kamala Harris, of California, attracting enthusiastic admirers who regularly express the hope that they are witnessing the party’s “next Obama.” While the four Democrats who just said no to 2020 did not appear intimidated by a Harris, Biden or O’Rourke candidacy, building an organization and commanding attention only gets harder amid multiple star candidates. There’s also the looming deadline of March 31, when candidates must report their first quarter finances to the Federal Election Commission. Those returns will be scrutinized as an early show of relative strength — or weakness — in the race. “There is a sense that if you’re going to build a presidential team, if you’re going to build the fund-raising base, you’re going to have to work night and day, and you can’t wait forever to do that,” said Mr. Merkley. “There’s a compelling sense of many people feeling like you’ve got to decide by the end of the first quarter.” Candidates who can self-finance their campaigns, like Mr. Bloomberg, would still face a fierce competition to be heard, not only among others in the race but amid intensifying efforts by Democrats on Capitol Hill to investigate the Trump administration. Even the first Democratic debate in June doesn’t hold the promise of much airtime: Depending on how many candidates qualify, the event could become a two-night affair, with candidates assigned a spot based on a random drawing. It didn’t go unnoticed by Mr. Bloomberg that he was the last billionaire considering a bid for the Democratic nomination. Tom Steyer, the California liberal activist, opted against running earlier this year, and if the former Starbucks chief executive Howard Schultz runs, he has said he would do so as an independent. “I believe I would defeat Donald Trump in a general election,” Mr. Bloomberg wrote in a column published Tuesday. “But I am cleareyed about the difficulty of winning the Democratic nomination in such a crowded field.” Populist progressives like Senators Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren have made combating the influence of money in politics a core message of their presidential candidacies — arguments that might have proved challenging for Mr. Bloomberg, whose aides said he would spend at least $500 million of his own fortune to defeat President Trump in 2020. Mr. Bloomberg’s moderate, pro-business record and generally favorable view of Wall Street would likely also have posed problems in a party that has shifted left on economic issues like taxing the rich and regulating big banks. Some of those arguments could have posed challenges for Mrs. Clinton, too, who spent decades cultivating a network of high-dollar donors and close relationships with Wall Street to fund her campaigns. Democrats lost more than 1,000 seats in state legislatures and governorships during President Barack Obama’s two terms in the Oval Office, and those defeats found increased scrutiny once Mr. Trump ascended into the presidency and the Democrats held diminished political power. In the three years since, grass-roots organizations and Democratic Party leaders have pledged to take recruitment and support for nonpresidential races more seriously, leading some candidates who had considered a run for president to look further down the ticket. In Mr. Merkley’s video announcing that he would not run, he said, “We need both strong leadership in the Oval Office and strong leadership in the Senate,” a sentiment that was met with applause on social media. Stacey Abrams, the Georgia Democrat who lost her bid for governor in 2018, is being heavily recruited for another statewide race in Georgia. . Mr. O’Rourke, the charismatic Texas Democrat who is expected to run for president after losing a Senate bid in 2018, has also faced several calls to focus his energy at home. [Who’s in? Who’s out? Keep up with the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.] Jeff Hauser, of the Center for Economic and Policy Research in Washington, tweeted that other Democrats should take a page from Mr. Merkley’s “principled and realistic playbook” and run for Senate. “We need to address the climate crisis, confirm judges & Justices, and in general begin the process of De-Trumpification,” he wrote. Mr. Bloomberg’s non-announcement announcement included plans to invest further in climate activism, which is another way Democrats are choosing to focus on the party’s overall health. Mr. Steyer decided he would instead put his money behind efforts to impeach Mr. Trump. Both Mr. Steyer and Mr. Bloomberg said that, unlike Mr. Schultz, they would not consider a third-party run, which could risk helping Mr. Trump win re-election by siphoning votes from the Democratic candidate. Another thing the four non-candidates have in common: They all represent the back end of a rapidly changing Democratic Party. After their defeat in the 2016 presidential election, a more liberal, more uncompromising wing of the party begin to emerge, desperate to throw off the institutional connections to more centrist figures like the Clintons and Mr. Obama. It was this wing that has helped move presidential candidates further to the left, pushing them to embrace policies like “Medicare for all,” the Green New Deal and the rejection of corporate PAC money. The new crop of Democrats are also more keen to talk about the importance of a candidate’s identity, particularly millennials and nonwhite activists who are driving grass-roots changes among Democrats — “Anybody But a White Guy 2020,” reads a popular sign at presidential rallies. And youth-led social movements about sexual harassment, racial justice, and gun control in recent years have forced Democrats to answer uncomfortable questions about the lack of equitable representation among their caucus in terms of race, gender, and class. Figures such as Mrs. Clinton, Mr. Bloomberg and Mr. Holder would have been an ideological mismatch for this emerging leftist voice. Mrs. Clinton already struggled to appease the party’s left flank during her 2016 run, and the litmus test issues have only moved further from her core policy center since. Social justice activists were raring to challenge Mr. Holder on his record on police reform as head of Department of Justice. Even Mr. Sanders seemed caught off guard during a recent appearance on The Breakfast Club, the urban radio show targeted to millennials, when a host asked him, “Do we need another white guy as president?”   Supported by By Reuters HELSINKI — Finland's leftist Social Democrat party (SDP) leader Antti Rinne has declared victory in Sunday's general election, after partial results showed his party winning by a tight margin with 17.8 percent. The nationalist Finns Party was in second place with 17.6 percent, after more than 97 percent of votes were counted. "For the first time since 1999 we are the largest party in Finland ... SDP is the prime minister party," Rinne said.  (Reporting by Anne Kauranen and Tarmo Virki; editing by Justyna Pawlak)

Supported by By Reuters HELSINKI — Finland's leftist Social Democrat party (SDP) leader Antti Rinne has declared victory in Sunday's general election, after partial results showed his party winning by a tight margin with 17.8 percent. The nationalist Finns Party was in second place with 17.6 percent, after more than 97 percent of votes were counted. "For the first time since 1999 we are the largest party in Finland ... SDP is the prime minister party," Rinne said.  (Reporting by Anne Kauranen and Tarmo Virki; editing by Justyna Pawlak)Supported by By Sheryl Gay Stolberg WASHINGTON — In the 116th Congress, if you’re a Democrat, you’re either a socialist, a baby killer or an anti-Semite. That, at least, is what Republicans want voters to think, as they seek to demonize Democrats well in advance of the 2020 elections by painting them as left-wing crazies who will destroy the American economy, murder newborn babies and turn a blind eye to bigotry against Jews. The unusually aggressive assault, which Republican officials and strategists outlined in interviews last week, is meant to strangle the new Democratic majority in its infancy. It was set in motion this month by President Trump, who used his State of the Union address to rail against “new calls to adopt socialism in our country” and mischaracterize legislation backed by Democrats in New York and Virginia as allowing “a baby to be ripped from the mother’s womb moments before birth.” Then last week, Republicans amped it up, seizing on a Twitter post by a freshman representative, Ilhan Omar of Minnesota, which even some Democrats condemned as anti-Semitic, and ridiculing the “Green New Deal,” an ambitious economic stimulus plan unveiled by Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, a self-described democratic socialist. Suddenly even Jewish Democrats were abetting anti-Semitism and moderate Democrats in Republican districts were Trotskyites and Stalinists. “Socialism is the greatest vulnerability by far that the House Democrats have,” Representative Tom Emmer of Minnesota, the chairman of the National Republican Congressional Committee, said in an interview, adding that he had also instructed his team to spotlight “all the extreme wild ideas” that Democrats espouse, “on a daily basis, on an hourly basis if it’s available.” House Republicans have identified 55 Democrats they regard as vulnerable, including many freshmen. Some flipped Republican seats last year, some represent districts carried by Mr. Trump in 2016, and some are in districts held by Republicans until recently. Bruised by their losses last year, Republicans are determined to start earlier and be more aggressive on the offense in 2020, and are hoping to exploit the Democratic presidential candidates’ courtship of the left. An advertising offensive is already underway. The Congressional Leadership Fund, a political action committee affiliated with House Republican leaders, began running digital ads last week that link two freshmen who flipped Republican districts, Representatives Colin Allred of Texas and Antonio Delgado of New York, to Ms. Ocasio-Cortez and her “radical Green New Deal assault on the American economy.” The spots are the first in what will be a national campaign, according to Zach Hunter, a spokesman for the fund. The stark ads, featuring stern-looking images of Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, offer a preview of how Republicans intend to vilify her in much the same way they have vilified Speaker Nancy Pelosi, caricaturing her as a radical from San Francisco. Democrats see an insidious effort to use women and minorities, especially women of color, as the new symbols of the radical “other.” And they are calling out Republicans as hypocrites, noting that Mr. Trump and other Republicans trafficked in anti-Semitic tropes and racist dog whistles long before anyone noticed Ms. Omar’s Twitter feed. “I guess they used that argument to its end, and so they have to find someone new,” Ms. Ocasio-Cortez said in a brief interview. “And who else to use except folks like myself and other freshmen congresswomen? We’re least like them in every way possible, so I think it’s a potent symbol.” But Republicans like Mr. Emmer say they are simply repeating Democrats’ own words, and they have been aided by Democratic stumbles. Ms. Ocasio-Cortez’s team published an early draft of the Green New Deal — which has been backed by several top-tier Democratic presidential candidates — that contained phrases those candidates did not endorse, including a call for economic security for “all who are unable or unwilling to work.” Ms. Ocasio-Cortez deleted the draft from her website, but Republicans took it and ran. Representative Liz Cheney of Wyoming, the chairwoman of the House Republican Conference, called the plan — endorsed by 70 Democrats in the House and about a dozen in the Senate — “a fantasy” and insisted the erroneous draft be placed in the Congressional Record. Sean Hannity, the Fox News commentator, called it “a form of insanity.” The Republican National Committee issued a briefing paper headlined “The Democrats’ Burgeoning Love Affair With Socialism.” In the Senate, where five Democrats are already running for president, Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, announced he would force a vote on the measure, drawing howls from Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, who slammed the move as a “cynical stunt” intended solely to put Democrats, including the presidential candidates, on the spot. A vote in favor of the Green New Deal could help them court progressives in the primary vote, but hurt in a general election. “Democrats have handed Republicans this messaging on a silver platter,” said Andy Surabian, a Republican strategist and former Trump White House official, adding that he believed socialism and Democrats’ stance on abortion were more powerful lines of attack than anti-Semitism. “All these controversies dovetail perfectly with the president’s messaging at the State of the Union.” Democrats dismissed the messaging as par for the course. “We are not going to abandon socialist policies like Social Security — or is that ‘socialist security,’ is that what they call it?” Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the No. 2 Democrat in the Senate, said wryly. “The bottom line is the president is in campaign mode — maybe he’s always in campaign mode — and I just expect a lot of this to be thrown over the transom.” Democrats say they intend to counter the offensive by talking about the issues they ran and won on: reducing health care costs and prescription drug prices, passing an infrastructure package and rooting out corruption in Washington. “We have an agenda to help families, and we have ideas,” said Representative Cheri Bustos of Illinois, the chairwoman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, who is among those being targeted. “Washington Republicans are set back now, and all they’re playing on is exaggerations and fear.” But Democrats must be careful not to let those exaggerations take hold. They are well aware that their path to keeping the majority runs through districts like Ms. Bustos’s, which the president carried in 2016. “Of course I can see them trying to drive a wedge between the people in our districts, the people who are in more moderate districts,” said Representative Josh Gottheimer, a centrist Democrat from New Jersey and a chairman of the bipartisan Problem Solvers Caucus. “That’s why it’s really important that we make sure that we govern from the middle.” The hardball tactics have been especially evident in the Republican response to Ms. Omar’s tweet last week, and to the legislation adopted in New York, and proposed in Virginia, to loosen restrictions on abortions in the third trimester of pregnancy under certain conditions. Before he became embroiled in a controversy over blackface, Gov. Ralph Northam of Virginia, a Democrat, gave Republicans an opening last month when he said during a radio interview about the bill that “a discussion would ensue between the physicians and the mother” in the case of an infant born with severe deformities. Mr. Northam’s office later said he was discussing medical treatment, not abortion, but Republicans, including Mr. Trump, accused him of promoting infanticide. House Republican leaders began gathering signatures to force a vote on legislation requiring doctors to provide care “when a child is born alive following an abortion or attempted abortion.” The National Republican Congressional Committee, meanwhile, began filling reporters’ inboxes with attacks targeted at centrist freshmen, with subject lines like “So we’re murdering newborns now?” and “Abortion extremists come to New Mexico,” referring to Representative Xochitl Torres Small. The committee has spent weeks lobbing charges of anti-Semitism at Ms. Omar and another freshman Democrat, Rashida Tlaib of Michigan, both fierce critics of Israel. But after Democratic leaders forced Ms. Omar to apologize for insinuating on Twitter that American policy toward Israel was fueled by money, the committee expanded its campaign, suggesting that other Democrats — including Representative Elaine Luria of Virginia, who is Jewish — were somehow abetting an anti-Semite. Ms. Luria, a freshman and Navy veteran, led the effort to push the Democratic leadership to speak out about Ms. Omar’s tweet. Yet under an email with the subject line “Be a leader, Elaine,” the committee pressed Ms. Luria to demand Ms. Omar’s removal from the House Foreign Affairs Committee “instead of letting the anti-Semite spew hate without any repercussions.” Ms. Luria and her team were incensed. “Congresswoman Luria served for 20 years in the United States Navy, and, as a Jewish woman in America, she will not be lectured by Washington Republicans about anti-Semitism,” Ms. Luria’s chief of staff, Kathryn Sorenson, said in an email. Mr. Emmer defended the statement, saying the committee was not “going after” Ms. Luria but rather “criticizing her and some others for not calling for their colleagues’ removal from the Foreign Affairs Committee.” He said Democrats could expect more of the same in 2020, adding, “This is all about compare and contrast.”

Supported by By Sheryl Gay Stolberg WASHINGTON — In the 116th Congress, if you’re a Democrat, you’re either a socialist, a baby killer or an anti-Semite. That, at least, is what Republicans want voters to think, as they seek to demonize Democrats well in advance of the 2020 elections by painting them as left-wing crazies who will destroy the American economy, murder newborn babies and turn a blind eye to bigotry against Jews. The unusually aggressive assault, which Republican officials and strategists outlined in interviews last week, is meant to strangle the new Democratic majority in its infancy. It was set in motion this month by President Trump, who used his State of the Union address to rail against “new calls to adopt socialism in our country” and mischaracterize legislation backed by Democrats in New York and Virginia as allowing “a baby to be ripped from the mother’s womb moments before birth.” Then last week, Republicans amped it up, seizing on a Twitter post by a freshman representative, Ilhan Omar of Minnesota, which even some Democrats condemned as anti-Semitic, and ridiculing the “Green New Deal,” an ambitious economic stimulus plan unveiled by Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, a self-described democratic socialist. Suddenly even Jewish Democrats were abetting anti-Semitism and moderate Democrats in Republican districts were Trotskyites and Stalinists. “Socialism is the greatest vulnerability by far that the House Democrats have,” Representative Tom Emmer of Minnesota, the chairman of the National Republican Congressional Committee, said in an interview, adding that he had also instructed his team to spotlight “all the extreme wild ideas” that Democrats espouse, “on a daily basis, on an hourly basis if it’s available.” House Republicans have identified 55 Democrats they regard as vulnerable, including many freshmen. Some flipped Republican seats last year, some represent districts carried by Mr. Trump in 2016, and some are in districts held by Republicans until recently. Bruised by their losses last year, Republicans are determined to start earlier and be more aggressive on the offense in 2020, and are hoping to exploit the Democratic presidential candidates’ courtship of the left. An advertising offensive is already underway. The Congressional Leadership Fund, a political action committee affiliated with House Republican leaders, began running digital ads last week that link two freshmen who flipped Republican districts, Representatives Colin Allred of Texas and Antonio Delgado of New York, to Ms. Ocasio-Cortez and her “radical Green New Deal assault on the American economy.” The spots are the first in what will be a national campaign, according to Zach Hunter, a spokesman for the fund. The stark ads, featuring stern-looking images of Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, offer a preview of how Republicans intend to vilify her in much the same way they have vilified Speaker Nancy Pelosi, caricaturing her as a radical from San Francisco. Democrats see an insidious effort to use women and minorities, especially women of color, as the new symbols of the radical “other.” And they are calling out Republicans as hypocrites, noting that Mr. Trump and other Republicans trafficked in anti-Semitic tropes and racist dog whistles long before anyone noticed Ms. Omar’s Twitter feed. “I guess they used that argument to its end, and so they have to find someone new,” Ms. Ocasio-Cortez said in a brief interview. “And who else to use except folks like myself and other freshmen congresswomen? We’re least like them in every way possible, so I think it’s a potent symbol.” But Republicans like Mr. Emmer say they are simply repeating Democrats’ own words, and they have been aided by Democratic stumbles. Ms. Ocasio-Cortez’s team published an early draft of the Green New Deal — which has been backed by several top-tier Democratic presidential candidates — that contained phrases those candidates did not endorse, including a call for economic security for “all who are unable or unwilling to work.” Ms. Ocasio-Cortez deleted the draft from her website, but Republicans took it and ran. Representative Liz Cheney of Wyoming, the chairwoman of the House Republican Conference, called the plan — endorsed by 70 Democrats in the House and about a dozen in the Senate — “a fantasy” and insisted the erroneous draft be placed in the Congressional Record. Sean Hannity, the Fox News commentator, called it “a form of insanity.” The Republican National Committee issued a briefing paper headlined “The Democrats’ Burgeoning Love Affair With Socialism.” In the Senate, where five Democrats are already running for president, Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, announced he would force a vote on the measure, drawing howls from Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, who slammed the move as a “cynical stunt” intended solely to put Democrats, including the presidential candidates, on the spot. A vote in favor of the Green New Deal could help them court progressives in the primary vote, but hurt in a general election. “Democrats have handed Republicans this messaging on a silver platter,” said Andy Surabian, a Republican strategist and former Trump White House official, adding that he believed socialism and Democrats’ stance on abortion were more powerful lines of attack than anti-Semitism. “All these controversies dovetail perfectly with the president’s messaging at the State of the Union.” Democrats dismissed the messaging as par for the course. “We are not going to abandon socialist policies like Social Security — or is that ‘socialist security,’ is that what they call it?” Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the No. 2 Democrat in the Senate, said wryly. “The bottom line is the president is in campaign mode — maybe he’s always in campaign mode — and I just expect a lot of this to be thrown over the transom.” Democrats say they intend to counter the offensive by talking about the issues they ran and won on: reducing health care costs and prescription drug prices, passing an infrastructure package and rooting out corruption in Washington. “We have an agenda to help families, and we have ideas,” said Representative Cheri Bustos of Illinois, the chairwoman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, who is among those being targeted. “Washington Republicans are set back now, and all they’re playing on is exaggerations and fear.” But Democrats must be careful not to let those exaggerations take hold. They are well aware that their path to keeping the majority runs through districts like Ms. Bustos’s, which the president carried in 2016. “Of course I can see them trying to drive a wedge between the people in our districts, the people who are in more moderate districts,” said Representative Josh Gottheimer, a centrist Democrat from New Jersey and a chairman of the bipartisan Problem Solvers Caucus. “That’s why it’s really important that we make sure that we govern from the middle.” The hardball tactics have been especially evident in the Republican response to Ms. Omar’s tweet last week, and to the legislation adopted in New York, and proposed in Virginia, to loosen restrictions on abortions in the third trimester of pregnancy under certain conditions. Before he became embroiled in a controversy over blackface, Gov. Ralph Northam of Virginia, a Democrat, gave Republicans an opening last month when he said during a radio interview about the bill that “a discussion would ensue between the physicians and the mother” in the case of an infant born with severe deformities. Mr. Northam’s office later said he was discussing medical treatment, not abortion, but Republicans, including Mr. Trump, accused him of promoting infanticide. House Republican leaders began gathering signatures to force a vote on legislation requiring doctors to provide care “when a child is born alive following an abortion or attempted abortion.” The National Republican Congressional Committee, meanwhile, began filling reporters’ inboxes with attacks targeted at centrist freshmen, with subject lines like “So we’re murdering newborns now?” and “Abortion extremists come to New Mexico,” referring to Representative Xochitl Torres Small. The committee has spent weeks lobbing charges of anti-Semitism at Ms. Omar and another freshman Democrat, Rashida Tlaib of Michigan, both fierce critics of Israel. But after Democratic leaders forced Ms. Omar to apologize for insinuating on Twitter that American policy toward Israel was fueled by money, the committee expanded its campaign, suggesting that other Democrats — including Representative Elaine Luria of Virginia, who is Jewish — were somehow abetting an anti-Semite. Ms. Luria, a freshman and Navy veteran, led the effort to push the Democratic leadership to speak out about Ms. Omar’s tweet. Yet under an email with the subject line “Be a leader, Elaine,” the committee pressed Ms. Luria to demand Ms. Omar’s removal from the House Foreign Affairs Committee “instead of letting the anti-Semite spew hate without any repercussions.” Ms. Luria and her team were incensed. “Congresswoman Luria served for 20 years in the United States Navy, and, as a Jewish woman in America, she will not be lectured by Washington Republicans about anti-Semitism,” Ms. Luria’s chief of staff, Kathryn Sorenson, said in an email. Mr. Emmer defended the statement, saying the committee was not “going after” Ms. Luria but rather “criticizing her and some others for not calling for their colleagues’ removal from the Foreign Affairs Committee.” He said Democrats could expect more of the same in 2020, adding, “This is all about compare and contrast.”Supported by By Reuters LEESBURG, Va./WASHINGTON — Democratic leaders in Congress said on Thursday they would seek President Donald Trump's support in coming weeks for legislation to invest up to $2 trillion to rebuild U.S. infrastructure, including roads, bridges and schools. House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer said at separate news conferences they would try to revive an effort that sputtered early in Trump's presidency for major investments in aging public works. The White House said Trump had spoken recently with Pelosi and "agreed to meet soon to discuss working together on infrastructure," White House spokesman Judd Deere said. Democrats have been seeking a much larger investment than Trump and fellow Republicans in Congress have suggested. "Has to be at least $1 trillion, I'd like it to be closer to $2 trillion," Pelosi told reporters at a House Democratic meeting in Leesburg, Virginia. She said there would be discussions on how such an amount could be financed.  Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, a Republican, told reporters later on Thursday that the financing issue was a major obstacle. "I'm all for taking it (infrastructure legislation) up once the president and Democrats, everybody says: 'OK, here's how we're going to pay for it.' As soon as that magically appears, I think we have a way forward," McConnell said. Schumer, speaking to reporters outside the U.S. Senate, said a meeting would occur within the next several weeks. "The bottom line is this: If they're not going to put real money and have real labor and environmental protections, we're not going to get anywhere," Schumer warned. Past bipartisan efforts by Democrats and Trump have brought mixed results. A criminal justice bill was enacted, but an immigration reform effort was a dismal failure, as were border security talks. "The president calls people and says: 'Why don't we do something?' but then he's unwilling to really do anything beyond his hard-right base and nothing gets done," Schumer complained. But as Republicans and Democrats gear up for the 2020 presidential and congressional elections, they could be eager to show voters accomplishments. Last month, Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao urged Congress to act promptly. Deere said: "The president wants a bipartisan infrastructure package that rebuilds crumbling infrastructure, invests in the projects and industries of tomorrow, and promotes permitting efficiency." Pelosi was dismissive of Trump's plan unveiled in February 2017 designed to encourage spending on improvements by states, localities and private investors. Trump had asked Congress to authorize $200 billion over 10 years to spur a projected $1.5 trillion in projects, but it had no new direct federal spending and never got a vote in Congress. "We have to put aside any negative attitudes. We are going there with a positive attitude: How much do you want to invest? How do we prioritize, because we want to do school construction, we want to do public housing, there are other things too," Pelosi said.  (Reporting by Susan Cornwell in Leesburg, Virginia, and Richard Cowan in Washington; Additional reporting by Jeff Mason in Washington; Editing by James Dalgleish and Peter Cooney)

Supported by By Reuters LEESBURG, Va./WASHINGTON — Democratic leaders in Congress said on Thursday they would seek President Donald Trump's support in coming weeks for legislation to invest up to $2 trillion to rebuild U.S. infrastructure, including roads, bridges and schools. House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer said at separate news conferences they would try to revive an effort that sputtered early in Trump's presidency for major investments in aging public works. The White House said Trump had spoken recently with Pelosi and "agreed to meet soon to discuss working together on infrastructure," White House spokesman Judd Deere said. Democrats have been seeking a much larger investment than Trump and fellow Republicans in Congress have suggested. "Has to be at least $1 trillion, I'd like it to be closer to $2 trillion," Pelosi told reporters at a House Democratic meeting in Leesburg, Virginia. She said there would be discussions on how such an amount could be financed.  Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, a Republican, told reporters later on Thursday that the financing issue was a major obstacle. "I'm all for taking it (infrastructure legislation) up once the president and Democrats, everybody says: 'OK, here's how we're going to pay for it.' As soon as that magically appears, I think we have a way forward," McConnell said. Schumer, speaking to reporters outside the U.S. Senate, said a meeting would occur within the next several weeks. "The bottom line is this: If they're not going to put real money and have real labor and environmental protections, we're not going to get anywhere," Schumer warned. Past bipartisan efforts by Democrats and Trump have brought mixed results. A criminal justice bill was enacted, but an immigration reform effort was a dismal failure, as were border security talks. "The president calls people and says: 'Why don't we do something?' but then he's unwilling to really do anything beyond his hard-right base and nothing gets done," Schumer complained. But as Republicans and Democrats gear up for the 2020 presidential and congressional elections, they could be eager to show voters accomplishments. Last month, Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao urged Congress to act promptly. Deere said: "The president wants a bipartisan infrastructure package that rebuilds crumbling infrastructure, invests in the projects and industries of tomorrow, and promotes permitting efficiency." Pelosi was dismissive of Trump's plan unveiled in February 2017 designed to encourage spending on improvements by states, localities and private investors. Trump had asked Congress to authorize $200 billion over 10 years to spur a projected $1.5 trillion in projects, but it had no new direct federal spending and never got a vote in Congress. "We have to put aside any negative attitudes. We are going there with a positive attitude: How much do you want to invest? How do we prioritize, because we want to do school construction, we want to do public housing, there are other things too," Pelosi said.  (Reporting by Susan Cornwell in Leesburg, Virginia, and Richard Cowan in Washington; Additional reporting by Jeff Mason in Washington; Editing by James Dalgleish and Peter Cooney)Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — U.S. House of Representatives Judiciary Committee Chairman Jerrold Nadler said on Thursday that Special Counsel Robert Mueller's Russia investigation report outlines "disturbing evidence that President Trump engaged in obstruction of justice and other misconduct."  "The report concluded there was 'substantial evidence' that President Trump attempted to prevent an investigation into his campaign and his own conduct," Nadler, a New York Democrat, said in a statement released hours after a redacted version of the report was made public. "The responsibility now falls to Congress to hold the president accountable for his actions," he said.  Nadler also said the report shows Mueller chose not to pursue charges, partly because of a Justice Department policy that a sitting president cannot be indicted.   (Reporting by David Morgan; editing by Jonathan Oatis)

Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — U.S. House of Representatives Judiciary Committee Chairman Jerrold Nadler said on Thursday that Special Counsel Robert Mueller's Russia investigation report outlines "disturbing evidence that President Trump engaged in obstruction of justice and other misconduct."  "The report concluded there was 'substantial evidence' that President Trump attempted to prevent an investigation into his campaign and his own conduct," Nadler, a New York Democrat, said in a statement released hours after a redacted version of the report was made public. "The responsibility now falls to Congress to hold the president accountable for his actions," he said.  Nadler also said the report shows Mueller chose not to pursue charges, partly because of a Justice Department policy that a sitting president cannot be indicted.   (Reporting by David Morgan; editing by Jonathan Oatis)Supported by By Sheryl Gay Stolberg and Robert Pear WASHINGTON — The Trump administration’s decision to ask a federal appeals court to invalidate the Affordable Care Act has given House Democrats a new opening to pursue what they see as a winning political strategy: moving past talk of impeachment to put kitchen-table issues like health care front and center. The notice to the court, filed late Monday by the Justice Department, could not have come at a more opportune time for Democrats. The finding by Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, that there was no evidence of a criminal conspiracy between the Trump campaign and Russia, dashed the hopes of the most partisan Democrats that the House would impeach the president. Speaker Nancy Pelosi — who celebrated her 79th birthday on Tuesday — had already planned to move to change the conversation with the unveiling of the Democrats’ own health care plan on Tuesday. The Democrats’ bill aims to lower health insurance premiums, strengthen protections for people with pre-existing medical conditions and ban the sale of what Democrats call “junk insurance.” The Justice Department’s move gave the unveiling an urgency that not even she could have anticipated. “The Republicans did say during the campaign that they weren’t there to undermine the pre-existing condition benefit, and here they are, right now, saying they’re going to strip the whole Affordable Care Act as the law of the land,” Ms. Pelosi told reporters Tuesday, adding, “This is actually an opportunity for us to speak to the American people with clarity.” The administration staked out its new position in a lawsuit that was filed by Republican attorneys general in Texas and other states after Congress failed in 2017 to repeal the Affordable Care Act, but later reduced the law’s tax penalty for people who do not have insurance to zero. The suit contended that the absence of the real tax penalty rendered the law’s “individual mandate” — the requirement that most Americans have insurance — unconstitutional. Without a requirement to purchase insurance, they argued, the law could not then insist that insurance companies cover pre-existing medical conditions and a suite of other “essential health benefits,” such as maternity care and prescription drugs. A judge in Texas agreed and invalidated the entire law, including its expansion of Medicaid and subsidies to help many low- and middle-income people buy insurance. The Justice Department initially said that only parts of the law, including its protections for pre-existing conditions, should be struck down. But on Monday, it expanded its attack to say the whole law should be invalidated. The Justice Department’s move caught both parties by surprise, and put Republicans in a very awkward position. “Not only is this a poor political move, this decision hurts real people who will unfairly lose their health insurance coverage as a result,” said Representative Tom Reed, Republican of New York. “We need to work to find ways to fix our health care system — not blow it up.” Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the House Republican leader, at first said, “I haven’t read through what they — was it last night?” He then added, “I think the president has always been very clear that he wanted to repeal Obamacare, and to put a system in that actually lowers the cost and protects individuals’ pre-existing conditions.” Other Republicans were more pointed. Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, whose vote helped sink the 2017 repeal effort and who is up for re-election in 2020, pronounced herself “very disappointed,” with the Justice Department’s position. “I thought it was bad enough when last year they wouldn’t defend parts of the law, including the parts protecting people with pre-existing conditions,” Ms. Collins said. “This goes far beyond that and I think was a huge mistake.” But Mr. Trump wholeheartedly embraced the new position on Tuesday, both on Twitter and in the Capitol, shortly before joining Senate Republicans at a closed-door luncheon. “The Republican Party will soon become the party of health care,” he told a throng of reporters and photographers, echoing what he had already written on social media. The president used the closed-door meeting in the Capitol for a rambling, unscripted recitation of his legislative priorities, and repeated his intention to make the subject of health care a major issue over the next two years. That pronouncement elicited a muted response, according to a person in the room. After the luncheon, Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee and chairman of the Senate health committee, echoed Mr. Trump’s message: “We have to become more the party of health care.” That is not ground the Democrats will easily cede. After months of distracting talk about the Mueller report and impeachment, they are pushing hard to pivot toward the issues that helped elect them — not just health care, but also bigger pay checks and cleaner government. On Wednesday, the House will vote on the Paycheck Fairness Act, which would amend a 1963 law to make it easier for women to challenge pay discrimination. “The focus from the media has been all over Mueller, Russia and so forth,” said Representative Rosa DeLauro of Connecticut, a close ally of Ms. Pelosi. “Day in and day out, literally 24 hours a day. But lest you think that is the only thing that members are focused on, that’s wrong.” At a closed-door meeting of House Democrats Tuesday morning, Ms. Pelosi praised Ms. DeLauro’s pay equity legislation and urged her fellow Democrats to “stay focused” on issues that matter to most people, not Washington partisans. At his regular weekly news conference, Representative Hakeem Jeffries of New York, the Democratic Caucus chairman, studiously avoided the Mueller inquiry as he talked up the “For the People” agenda that they notionally campaigned on. “Nowhere in the For the People agenda does it talk about Russia,” he said. “Nowhere in the For the People agenda does it talk about collusion; nowhere in the For the People agenda does it talk about obstruction of justice.” Instead, Mr. Jeffries attacked Republicans for “launching an assault on health care in the United States of America.” In the nine years since it was signed by President Barack Obama, the Affordable Care Act has become deeply ingrained in the nation’s health care system. It revamped the way Medicare pays doctors, hospitals and other health care providers. It unleashed innovation in the delivery of health care. Since its passage, the health insurance industry has invented a new business model selling coverage to anyone who applies, regardless of any pre-existing conditions. The law also includes dozens of other less known provisions. Chain restaurants are now required to print nutrition labeling and calorie counts on standard menu items. Certain employers must now provide “reasonable break time” and a private space for nursing mothers to pump breast milk. The law also improved prescription drug coverage for Medicare beneficiaries, and created a new pathway for the approval of less expensive versions of advanced “biologic” medicines made from living cells. Lawyers and other experts say that uprooting the law could have “dire consequences for millions of people,” in the words of Abbe R. Gluck, a law professor at Yale who has closely followed the litigation. It would also raise legal and practical questions. “The Justice Department’s position is mind-boggling,” said Timothy S. Jost, an emeritus professor of health law at Washington and Lee University. “The Affordable Care Act affects the whole health care system, including Medicare, Medicaid, the Food and Drug Administration, the Indian Health Service and much more. The administration is asking the appeals court to invalidate the entire law without really knowing exactly what that would mean. It’s reckless.” But Ken Paxton, the attorney general of Texas who led the group of Republican state officials who challenged the Affordable Care Act, said he welcomed the Trump administration’s latest expression of support for a lawsuit that had already prompted a district court judge in Texas to strike down the health law. That judge’s ruling in December has been on hold as the matter winds its way through the court system. “We have always been confident that the district court’s extremely well-reasoned opinion was correct on the law, just as we have also always been confident that this administration takes its obligation to uphold the Constitution seriously,” Marc Rylander, a spokesman for Mr. Paxton, said Tuesday. “We applaud the Department of Justice’s faithful execution of that duty.” In addition to inciting a furor on Capitol Hill, the administration’s new position is also certain to take center stage as an issue in the 2020 elections. Democrats have been saying that Mr. Trump still wants to abolish the law, and they can now point to the Justice Department’s filing as proof. The Democrats’ offensive on health care is more than an effort to draw a contrast with Republicans. But in unveiling their bill on Tuesday, Democratic leaders were also trying to smooth over internal divisions between liberals pushing the single-payer government insurance plan known as “Medicare for all” and centrists, who are calling for a more incremental approach. The House Democrats’ health care plan, put together by Ms. Pelosi and several House committee chairmen, builds on the Affordable Care Act, which the speaker was instrumental in passing. It would overturn a rule Mr. Trump issued in August that greatly expanded the market for sales of short-term insurance plans that do not have to cover prescription drugs, maternity care, drug abuse treatment or pre-existing conditions. And it would increase the two main types of financial assistance the law provides: tax credits to help low- and middle-income people pay premiums, and cost-sharing reductions to lower deductibles, co-payments and other out-of-pocket costs. At Tuesday’s news conference, Democrats were eager to remind reporters that Mr. Trump said in the 2018 campaign that “Republicans will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions.” “We will remind the American people time and time again of that broken promise,” said Representative James E. Clyburn of South Carolina, the No. 3 House Democrat. Glenn Thrush, Nicholas Fandos and Katie Benner contributed reporting. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.   

Supported by By Sheryl Gay Stolberg and Robert Pear WASHINGTON — The Trump administration’s decision to ask a federal appeals court to invalidate the Affordable Care Act has given House Democrats a new opening to pursue what they see as a winning political strategy: moving past talk of impeachment to put kitchen-table issues like health care front and center. The notice to the court, filed late Monday by the Justice Department, could not have come at a more opportune time for Democrats. The finding by Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, that there was no evidence of a criminal conspiracy between the Trump campaign and Russia, dashed the hopes of the most partisan Democrats that the House would impeach the president. Speaker Nancy Pelosi — who celebrated her 79th birthday on Tuesday — had already planned to move to change the conversation with the unveiling of the Democrats’ own health care plan on Tuesday. The Democrats’ bill aims to lower health insurance premiums, strengthen protections for people with pre-existing medical conditions and ban the sale of what Democrats call “junk insurance.” The Justice Department’s move gave the unveiling an urgency that not even she could have anticipated. “The Republicans did say during the campaign that they weren’t there to undermine the pre-existing condition benefit, and here they are, right now, saying they’re going to strip the whole Affordable Care Act as the law of the land,” Ms. Pelosi told reporters Tuesday, adding, “This is actually an opportunity for us to speak to the American people with clarity.” The administration staked out its new position in a lawsuit that was filed by Republican attorneys general in Texas and other states after Congress failed in 2017 to repeal the Affordable Care Act, but later reduced the law’s tax penalty for people who do not have insurance to zero. The suit contended that the absence of the real tax penalty rendered the law’s “individual mandate” — the requirement that most Americans have insurance — unconstitutional. Without a requirement to purchase insurance, they argued, the law could not then insist that insurance companies cover pre-existing medical conditions and a suite of other “essential health benefits,” such as maternity care and prescription drugs. A judge in Texas agreed and invalidated the entire law, including its expansion of Medicaid and subsidies to help many low- and middle-income people buy insurance. The Justice Department initially said that only parts of the law, including its protections for pre-existing conditions, should be struck down. But on Monday, it expanded its attack to say the whole law should be invalidated. The Justice Department’s move caught both parties by surprise, and put Republicans in a very awkward position. “Not only is this a poor political move, this decision hurts real people who will unfairly lose their health insurance coverage as a result,” said Representative Tom Reed, Republican of New York. “We need to work to find ways to fix our health care system — not blow it up.” Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the House Republican leader, at first said, “I haven’t read through what they — was it last night?” He then added, “I think the president has always been very clear that he wanted to repeal Obamacare, and to put a system in that actually lowers the cost and protects individuals’ pre-existing conditions.” Other Republicans were more pointed. Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, whose vote helped sink the 2017 repeal effort and who is up for re-election in 2020, pronounced herself “very disappointed,” with the Justice Department’s position. “I thought it was bad enough when last year they wouldn’t defend parts of the law, including the parts protecting people with pre-existing conditions,” Ms. Collins said. “This goes far beyond that and I think was a huge mistake.” But Mr. Trump wholeheartedly embraced the new position on Tuesday, both on Twitter and in the Capitol, shortly before joining Senate Republicans at a closed-door luncheon. “The Republican Party will soon become the party of health care,” he told a throng of reporters and photographers, echoing what he had already written on social media. The president used the closed-door meeting in the Capitol for a rambling, unscripted recitation of his legislative priorities, and repeated his intention to make the subject of health care a major issue over the next two years. That pronouncement elicited a muted response, according to a person in the room. After the luncheon, Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee and chairman of the Senate health committee, echoed Mr. Trump’s message: “We have to become more the party of health care.” That is not ground the Democrats will easily cede. After months of distracting talk about the Mueller report and impeachment, they are pushing hard to pivot toward the issues that helped elect them — not just health care, but also bigger pay checks and cleaner government. On Wednesday, the House will vote on the Paycheck Fairness Act, which would amend a 1963 law to make it easier for women to challenge pay discrimination. “The focus from the media has been all over Mueller, Russia and so forth,” said Representative Rosa DeLauro of Connecticut, a close ally of Ms. Pelosi. “Day in and day out, literally 24 hours a day. But lest you think that is the only thing that members are focused on, that’s wrong.” At a closed-door meeting of House Democrats Tuesday morning, Ms. Pelosi praised Ms. DeLauro’s pay equity legislation and urged her fellow Democrats to “stay focused” on issues that matter to most people, not Washington partisans. At his regular weekly news conference, Representative Hakeem Jeffries of New York, the Democratic Caucus chairman, studiously avoided the Mueller inquiry as he talked up the “For the People” agenda that they notionally campaigned on. “Nowhere in the For the People agenda does it talk about Russia,” he said. “Nowhere in the For the People agenda does it talk about collusion; nowhere in the For the People agenda does it talk about obstruction of justice.” Instead, Mr. Jeffries attacked Republicans for “launching an assault on health care in the United States of America.” In the nine years since it was signed by President Barack Obama, the Affordable Care Act has become deeply ingrained in the nation’s health care system. It revamped the way Medicare pays doctors, hospitals and other health care providers. It unleashed innovation in the delivery of health care. Since its passage, the health insurance industry has invented a new business model selling coverage to anyone who applies, regardless of any pre-existing conditions. The law also includes dozens of other less known provisions. Chain restaurants are now required to print nutrition labeling and calorie counts on standard menu items. Certain employers must now provide “reasonable break time” and a private space for nursing mothers to pump breast milk. The law also improved prescription drug coverage for Medicare beneficiaries, and created a new pathway for the approval of less expensive versions of advanced “biologic” medicines made from living cells. Lawyers and other experts say that uprooting the law could have “dire consequences for millions of people,” in the words of Abbe R. Gluck, a law professor at Yale who has closely followed the litigation. It would also raise legal and practical questions. “The Justice Department’s position is mind-boggling,” said Timothy S. Jost, an emeritus professor of health law at Washington and Lee University. “The Affordable Care Act affects the whole health care system, including Medicare, Medicaid, the Food and Drug Administration, the Indian Health Service and much more. The administration is asking the appeals court to invalidate the entire law without really knowing exactly what that would mean. It’s reckless.” But Ken Paxton, the attorney general of Texas who led the group of Republican state officials who challenged the Affordable Care Act, said he welcomed the Trump administration’s latest expression of support for a lawsuit that had already prompted a district court judge in Texas to strike down the health law. That judge’s ruling in December has been on hold as the matter winds its way through the court system. “We have always been confident that the district court’s extremely well-reasoned opinion was correct on the law, just as we have also always been confident that this administration takes its obligation to uphold the Constitution seriously,” Marc Rylander, a spokesman for Mr. Paxton, said Tuesday. “We applaud the Department of Justice’s faithful execution of that duty.” In addition to inciting a furor on Capitol Hill, the administration’s new position is also certain to take center stage as an issue in the 2020 elections. Democrats have been saying that Mr. Trump still wants to abolish the law, and they can now point to the Justice Department’s filing as proof. The Democrats’ offensive on health care is more than an effort to draw a contrast with Republicans. But in unveiling their bill on Tuesday, Democratic leaders were also trying to smooth over internal divisions between liberals pushing the single-payer government insurance plan known as “Medicare for all” and centrists, who are calling for a more incremental approach. The House Democrats’ health care plan, put together by Ms. Pelosi and several House committee chairmen, builds on the Affordable Care Act, which the speaker was instrumental in passing. It would overturn a rule Mr. Trump issued in August that greatly expanded the market for sales of short-term insurance plans that do not have to cover prescription drugs, maternity care, drug abuse treatment or pre-existing conditions. And it would increase the two main types of financial assistance the law provides: tax credits to help low- and middle-income people pay premiums, and cost-sharing reductions to lower deductibles, co-payments and other out-of-pocket costs. At Tuesday’s news conference, Democrats were eager to remind reporters that Mr. Trump said in the 2018 campaign that “Republicans will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions.” “We will remind the American people time and time again of that broken promise,” said Representative James E. Clyburn of South Carolina, the No. 3 House Democrat. Glenn Thrush, Nicholas Fandos and Katie Benner contributed reporting. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.   Supported by By Shane Goldmacher [What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.] Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez may be just the beginning. Less than eight months after Ms. Ocasio-Cortez stunned the political world by unseating a powerful Democratic congressman, her home state is emerging as an epicenter of House primary challenges in 2020. Party insurgents are plotting and preparing to battle with the entrenched establishment — targeting as many as a half-dozen Congress members in and around New York City — over what it means to be a Democrat and a progressive in the age of President Trump. The coming New York uprising could result in a series of races that lay bare some of the same generational, racial, gender and ideological cleavages expected to define the 2020 presidential primary. The activist left, in particular, hopes that Ms. Ocasio-Cortez’s victory will inspire a brush fire of Democrat-on-Democrat campaigns that will spread from New York across the nation. Serious primary challengers for House seats have historically been rare, and it is almost unheard of for so many to emerge in one region so early in the election cycle. Only two Democratic incumbents — including Joseph Crowley, the former No. 4 Democrat in the House, who lost to Ms. Ocasio-Cortez — were felled nationwide in 2018. But threats now seem to loom for numerous New York incumbents. In Manhattan, Jerrold Nadler, the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, could be challenged, just as a California billionaire pressures him to move to impeach President Trump. On Long Island, a Democratic National Committee member is making noises about taking on Tom Suozzi. In Brooklyn, a rematch is in the works in what was one of the nation’s closest primaries in 2018. And in the Bronx and Westchester, some progressives are pushing to unseat Eliot L. Engel, a white congressman who represents a diversifying district where white residents are now in the minority — just like where Ms. Ocasio-Cortez won. Not every challenge in New York will be run on ideological grounds. Some will be powered by more local disputes, longstanding grudges or just timely ambition. But for many progressives, the goal is to police the Democratic Party ideologically, much in the way the Tea Party pushed Republicans to the right. “We are trying to elect more Alexandrias,” said Alexandra Rojas, executive director of Justice Democrats, the insurgent group devoted to recruiting progressive primary challengers nationally. “She is an example of what one victory can do. Imagine what we can do with more primary wins across the country.” After Mr. Crowley’s defeat almost no one is seen as untouchable. “They should be afraid,” Maria L. Svart, the national director of the Democratic Socialists of America, which backed Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, said of incumbent House Democrats. Ms. Ocasio-Cortez herself appeared in a promotional video for Justice Democrats and on an organizing call for the group last November during which Saikat Chakrabarti, now her chief of staff, declared, “We gotta primary folks.” A report that Ms. Ocasio-Cortez was seeking a Democratic challenger to Representative Hakeem Jeffries, the highest-ranking New Yorker in House leadership, rattled the delegation. Ms. Ocasio-Cortez denied the story with her colleagues and has sought to smooth over relations. They, in turn, have sought to establish personal or professional bonds with her, signing onto her Green New Deal, for instance — recognizing the power of her megaphone. In an interview in January, Ms. Ocasio-Cortez said she had “put zero energy” into the question of primarying colleagues. She said the freshman class had “already changed the opinions and commitments of a lot of incumbent members already. And I think that is something we should absolutely consider.” Whether or not Ms. Ocasio-Cortez gets personally involved, insurgent groups are plowing ahead. “In deep blue states, Republicans increasingly don’t exist,” explained Sean McElwee, a co-founder of the progressive think tank Data for Progress who has been involved in finding primary challengers in New York. “We spend a lot of time thinking about why we have right-wing corporate Democrats selling out our interests.” Mr. McElwee called the push to recruit a challenger to Mr. Engel, who chairs the House Foreign Affairs Committee and has been in Congress for three decades, a “top priority” and he recently commissioned a poll there. Mr. Engel easily dispatched a self-funded white male challenger in 2018 but activists are particularly keen on finding a younger candidate of color in 2020; only about a half-dozen white Democratic men represent a more diverse district in Congress than Mr. Engel. One potential challenger mulling a run is Andom Ghebreghiorgis, a Yale graduate and 33-year-old educator in Mount Vernon, who said that Ms. Ocasio-Cortez “showed there’s a hunger, especially here in New York, for representatives who reflect the changing progressive politics of their communities.” In a statement, Mr. Engel praised the party’s “new energy” and said the fact that anyone can run “is the beauty of our electoral system.” But, he added, “I think we’re doing the people we represent and the country a disservice by focusing on 2020 primaries when we have so much to do right now in Washington.” Representative Nadler could face a primary from Lindsey Boylan, a former economic development adviser to Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo. She said she was considering a run after watching the 2018 midterms, as “these women decided not to wait their turn because it was never going to be their turn.” “I just can’t justify having my daughter watch me sit on the sidelines,” she said. A huge X-factor in any Nadler primary would be the billionaire activist Tom Steyer, who has pushed for the impeachment of Mr. Trump. Mr. Steyer has already polled the popularity of impeachment in the district and is launching a $200,000 direct mail, television and digital ad campaign this week urging Mr. Nadler to begin impeachment hearings in his committee. In the Bronx, Representative José E. Serrano, in Congress since 1990, could face a challenge from Councilman Ritchie Torres, a 30-year-old often described as a rising star, who said he is weighing a run. Mr. Serrano, 75, almost faced a primary in 2018: Ms. Ocasio-Cortez initially filed paperwork to run against him before refiling days later against Mr. Crowley. Two other Democratic New York City congresswomen who faced primary opponents in 2018, Representatives Yvette Clarke and Carolyn Maloney, expect challenges again. Ms. Clarke, who won with only 53 percent of the vote, is likely to face a rematch with Adem Bunkeddeko, the Harvard-educated son of war Ugandan refugees who has signaled he plans to run again. “We’re at a moment of reckoning. Some people get it and some people don’t,” Mr. Bunkeddeko said. “Maybe someone’s seventh term is the charm?” he added of Ms. Clarke. “But most of us aren’t holding our breath.” Ms. Clarke said she had reorganized her district office following the 2018 close call and is aggressively selling her progressive credentials in the more gentrified and liberal parts of the district, such as Park Slope. “I definitely will not be caught by surprise,” she said. Ms. Maloney won more comfortably, with nearly 60 percent, but her 2018 opponent, Suraj Patel, actually won far more votes than Ms. Ocasio-Cortez. (Total turnout in the more affluent district that spans three boroughs was higher.) He, too, is considering another run. “After 25 years, we need change,” Mr. Patel said. “We deserve a congressperson who isn’t recklessly indifferent to the less privileged.” Ms. Maloney said, “Competition is good for everybody and good for democracy.” Of Mr. Patel, she added, “He was soundly defeated after all was said and done.” Two Long Island Democrats could face 2020 primaries, too: Representatives Suozzi and Kathleen Rice. Mr. Suozzi, a member of the bipartisan Problem Solvers Caucus, has angered progressive activists, including on immigration, after he went on “Fox and Friends” last summer to embrace “some physical structures on the border” and defend the Immigration and Customs and Enforcement agency. In an interview, Mr. Suozzi said he was only in favor of expanded barriers as part of a broader immigration accord. “I’m not a one-size-fits-all member of Congress,” he said, “but I work hard to represent my district.” Some on the left have encouraged Robert Zimmerman, a D.N.C. member who lives in the district and once ran for Congress in the early 1980s, to challenge Mr. Suozzi from the left. Mr. Zimmerman, 64, did not rule out a run as he slammed Mr. Suozzi as a “Trump sympathizer” in an interview. “I understand it’s unusual,” Mr. Zimmerman said of a party official attacking his local congressman. “It’s more unusual to have a member not stand up for mainstream Democratic principles.” Of Mr. Zimmerman, Mr. Suozzi declined to comment. In the neighboring district, Ms. Rice riled up some national and local Democrats with her outspoken opposition to Nancy Pelosi’s ascent as speaker. Mr. McElwee’s group commissioned a poll of how Ms. Rice’s opposition to Ms. Pelosi was received, along with her positions on other progressive issues. Kevan Abrahams, the Democratic leader in the Nassau County Legislature who lost a primary to Ms. Rice in 2014, is considering running again, though he said he was currently focused on his own re-election this fall. Jay Jacobs, the incoming chairman of the New York Democratic Party, acknowledged that Ms. Ocasio-Cortez’s success had emboldened potential challengers. But he noted that the primary rules in New York have changed since 2018, when it was the only state in America to hold a separate state and congressional elections, driving down turnout to abysmal lows. Plus, incumbents won't be “caught sleeping.” “It’s going to be a real fight,” Mr. Jacobs said. “And in a real fight, my money is with the incumbents.” An earlier version of this article misspelled the first name of the former economic development adviser to Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo. She is Lindsey Boylan, not Lindsay Boylan.    

Supported by By Shane Goldmacher [What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.] Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez may be just the beginning. Less than eight months after Ms. Ocasio-Cortez stunned the political world by unseating a powerful Democratic congressman, her home state is emerging as an epicenter of House primary challenges in 2020. Party insurgents are plotting and preparing to battle with the entrenched establishment — targeting as many as a half-dozen Congress members in and around New York City — over what it means to be a Democrat and a progressive in the age of President Trump. The coming New York uprising could result in a series of races that lay bare some of the same generational, racial, gender and ideological cleavages expected to define the 2020 presidential primary. The activist left, in particular, hopes that Ms. Ocasio-Cortez’s victory will inspire a brush fire of Democrat-on-Democrat campaigns that will spread from New York across the nation. Serious primary challengers for House seats have historically been rare, and it is almost unheard of for so many to emerge in one region so early in the election cycle. Only two Democratic incumbents — including Joseph Crowley, the former No. 4 Democrat in the House, who lost to Ms. Ocasio-Cortez — were felled nationwide in 2018. But threats now seem to loom for numerous New York incumbents. In Manhattan, Jerrold Nadler, the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, could be challenged, just as a California billionaire pressures him to move to impeach President Trump. On Long Island, a Democratic National Committee member is making noises about taking on Tom Suozzi. In Brooklyn, a rematch is in the works in what was one of the nation’s closest primaries in 2018. And in the Bronx and Westchester, some progressives are pushing to unseat Eliot L. Engel, a white congressman who represents a diversifying district where white residents are now in the minority — just like where Ms. Ocasio-Cortez won. Not every challenge in New York will be run on ideological grounds. Some will be powered by more local disputes, longstanding grudges or just timely ambition. But for many progressives, the goal is to police the Democratic Party ideologically, much in the way the Tea Party pushed Republicans to the right. “We are trying to elect more Alexandrias,” said Alexandra Rojas, executive director of Justice Democrats, the insurgent group devoted to recruiting progressive primary challengers nationally. “She is an example of what one victory can do. Imagine what we can do with more primary wins across the country.” After Mr. Crowley’s defeat almost no one is seen as untouchable. “They should be afraid,” Maria L. Svart, the national director of the Democratic Socialists of America, which backed Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, said of incumbent House Democrats. Ms. Ocasio-Cortez herself appeared in a promotional video for Justice Democrats and on an organizing call for the group last November during which Saikat Chakrabarti, now her chief of staff, declared, “We gotta primary folks.” A report that Ms. Ocasio-Cortez was seeking a Democratic challenger to Representative Hakeem Jeffries, the highest-ranking New Yorker in House leadership, rattled the delegation. Ms. Ocasio-Cortez denied the story with her colleagues and has sought to smooth over relations. They, in turn, have sought to establish personal or professional bonds with her, signing onto her Green New Deal, for instance — recognizing the power of her megaphone. In an interview in January, Ms. Ocasio-Cortez said she had “put zero energy” into the question of primarying colleagues. She said the freshman class had “already changed the opinions and commitments of a lot of incumbent members already. And I think that is something we should absolutely consider.” Whether or not Ms. Ocasio-Cortez gets personally involved, insurgent groups are plowing ahead. “In deep blue states, Republicans increasingly don’t exist,” explained Sean McElwee, a co-founder of the progressive think tank Data for Progress who has been involved in finding primary challengers in New York. “We spend a lot of time thinking about why we have right-wing corporate Democrats selling out our interests.” Mr. McElwee called the push to recruit a challenger to Mr. Engel, who chairs the House Foreign Affairs Committee and has been in Congress for three decades, a “top priority” and he recently commissioned a poll there. Mr. Engel easily dispatched a self-funded white male challenger in 2018 but activists are particularly keen on finding a younger candidate of color in 2020; only about a half-dozen white Democratic men represent a more diverse district in Congress than Mr. Engel. One potential challenger mulling a run is Andom Ghebreghiorgis, a Yale graduate and 33-year-old educator in Mount Vernon, who said that Ms. Ocasio-Cortez “showed there’s a hunger, especially here in New York, for representatives who reflect the changing progressive politics of their communities.” In a statement, Mr. Engel praised the party’s “new energy” and said the fact that anyone can run “is the beauty of our electoral system.” But, he added, “I think we’re doing the people we represent and the country a disservice by focusing on 2020 primaries when we have so much to do right now in Washington.” Representative Nadler could face a primary from Lindsey Boylan, a former economic development adviser to Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo. She said she was considering a run after watching the 2018 midterms, as “these women decided not to wait their turn because it was never going to be their turn.” “I just can’t justify having my daughter watch me sit on the sidelines,” she said. A huge X-factor in any Nadler primary would be the billionaire activist Tom Steyer, who has pushed for the impeachment of Mr. Trump. Mr. Steyer has already polled the popularity of impeachment in the district and is launching a $200,000 direct mail, television and digital ad campaign this week urging Mr. Nadler to begin impeachment hearings in his committee. In the Bronx, Representative José E. Serrano, in Congress since 1990, could face a challenge from Councilman Ritchie Torres, a 30-year-old often described as a rising star, who said he is weighing a run. Mr. Serrano, 75, almost faced a primary in 2018: Ms. Ocasio-Cortez initially filed paperwork to run against him before refiling days later against Mr. Crowley. Two other Democratic New York City congresswomen who faced primary opponents in 2018, Representatives Yvette Clarke and Carolyn Maloney, expect challenges again. Ms. Clarke, who won with only 53 percent of the vote, is likely to face a rematch with Adem Bunkeddeko, the Harvard-educated son of war Ugandan refugees who has signaled he plans to run again. “We’re at a moment of reckoning. Some people get it and some people don’t,” Mr. Bunkeddeko said. “Maybe someone’s seventh term is the charm?” he added of Ms. Clarke. “But most of us aren’t holding our breath.” Ms. Clarke said she had reorganized her district office following the 2018 close call and is aggressively selling her progressive credentials in the more gentrified and liberal parts of the district, such as Park Slope. “I definitely will not be caught by surprise,” she said. Ms. Maloney won more comfortably, with nearly 60 percent, but her 2018 opponent, Suraj Patel, actually won far more votes than Ms. Ocasio-Cortez. (Total turnout in the more affluent district that spans three boroughs was higher.) He, too, is considering another run. “After 25 years, we need change,” Mr. Patel said. “We deserve a congressperson who isn’t recklessly indifferent to the less privileged.” Ms. Maloney said, “Competition is good for everybody and good for democracy.” Of Mr. Patel, she added, “He was soundly defeated after all was said and done.” Two Long Island Democrats could face 2020 primaries, too: Representatives Suozzi and Kathleen Rice. Mr. Suozzi, a member of the bipartisan Problem Solvers Caucus, has angered progressive activists, including on immigration, after he went on “Fox and Friends” last summer to embrace “some physical structures on the border” and defend the Immigration and Customs and Enforcement agency. In an interview, Mr. Suozzi said he was only in favor of expanded barriers as part of a broader immigration accord. “I’m not a one-size-fits-all member of Congress,” he said, “but I work hard to represent my district.” Some on the left have encouraged Robert Zimmerman, a D.N.C. member who lives in the district and once ran for Congress in the early 1980s, to challenge Mr. Suozzi from the left. Mr. Zimmerman, 64, did not rule out a run as he slammed Mr. Suozzi as a “Trump sympathizer” in an interview. “I understand it’s unusual,” Mr. Zimmerman said of a party official attacking his local congressman. “It’s more unusual to have a member not stand up for mainstream Democratic principles.” Of Mr. Zimmerman, Mr. Suozzi declined to comment. In the neighboring district, Ms. Rice riled up some national and local Democrats with her outspoken opposition to Nancy Pelosi’s ascent as speaker. Mr. McElwee’s group commissioned a poll of how Ms. Rice’s opposition to Ms. Pelosi was received, along with her positions on other progressive issues. Kevan Abrahams, the Democratic leader in the Nassau County Legislature who lost a primary to Ms. Rice in 2014, is considering running again, though he said he was currently focused on his own re-election this fall. Jay Jacobs, the incoming chairman of the New York Democratic Party, acknowledged that Ms. Ocasio-Cortez’s success had emboldened potential challengers. But he noted that the primary rules in New York have changed since 2018, when it was the only state in America to hold a separate state and congressional elections, driving down turnout to abysmal lows. Plus, incumbents won't be “caught sleeping.” “It’s going to be a real fight,” Mr. Jacobs said. “And in a real fight, my money is with the incumbents.” An earlier version of this article misspelled the first name of the former economic development adviser to Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo. She is Lindsey Boylan, not Lindsay Boylan.    Supported by Best of Late Night By Giovanni Russonello Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox. President Trump has responded dismissively to congressional Democrats’ push to investigate him. He told reporters on Tuesday that the House Judiciary Committee’s broad inquiry into his activities was merely an effort to overshadow his achievements. “No administration has accomplished — probably you could say this with absolute surety — in the first two years anywhere near what we’ve accomplished,” Trump asserted. By now, Stephen Colbert is used to hearing Trump speak in superlatives — but he couldn’t countenance that claim. “Really? I just want to point out, on Day 149 of George Washington’s presidency, they passed the Bill of Rights — and it’s taken you almost two years to violate all of them.” — STEPHEN COLBERT Colbert also riffed on a recent Twitter post in which Trump said Democrats had gone “stone cold CRAZY.” “Trump, on the other hand, is sweaty hot crazy.” — STEPHEN COLBERT At an event on Monday, a reporter asked Trump whether he would cooperate with Representative Jerry Nadler, the head of the House Judiciary Committee, who is investigating whether the president committed obstruction of justice. Trump shot back: “I cooperate all the time with everybody.” James Corden cried foul. “He’s right, unless you count the special counsel, the F.B.I., every single Democrat, half his own cabinet and every country in the United Nations except Russia. Other than that, yes, everybody!” — JAMES CORDEN Jimmy Kimmel welcomed the arrival of Mardi Gras with some old-fashioned cynicism. “It’s also Mardi Gras today. Mardi Gras harkens all the way back to the 17th century, when the king of France sent Catholic missionaries to the Louisiana territory to flash their boobs in exchange for beads.” — JIMMY KIMMEL “The official slogan of Mardi Gras is ‘laissez les bons temps rouler,’ which is French for ‘I vomited in an Uber today.’” — JIMMY KIMMEL “Forbes today released their annual list of billionaires. Or as Bernie Sanders calls it, ‘the list of people we’ll eat first.’” — JIMMY KIMMEL “There are now 12 Democrats running for president. Twelve Democrats — a dozen! Isn’t that crazy? Only 12 people in this country think they can do a better job than Donald Trump.” — CONAN O’BRIEN “Hillary Clinton has announced she’s not running for president in 2020. That is tough news for Republicans — they still haven’t realized she’s no longer running in 2016.” — STEPHEN COLBERT Here, watch the Jonas Brothers tell personal secrets and eat disgusting foods. This is what television is for, right? When Kimmel underestimated the offerings of the Kangol brand, Samuel L. Jackson was there to set him straight on the headwear he popularized. Rachel Feinstein, a rising star in comedy, will chat with Conan O’Brien on Wednesday. A new art space in New York is showing nearly 70 works by the famed Brooklyn-born artist Jean-Michel Basquiat. The exhibit becomes a kind of hometown shrine for this deeply influential artist, our critic writes. Plus, Ideas for What to Watch Tonight: The 50 Best Movies on Netflix Right Now The 25 Best Films of the 21st Century The Best Movies on Amazon Prime Video Right Now

Supported by Best of Late Night By Giovanni Russonello Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox. President Trump has responded dismissively to congressional Democrats’ push to investigate him. He told reporters on Tuesday that the House Judiciary Committee’s broad inquiry into his activities was merely an effort to overshadow his achievements. “No administration has accomplished — probably you could say this with absolute surety — in the first two years anywhere near what we’ve accomplished,” Trump asserted. By now, Stephen Colbert is used to hearing Trump speak in superlatives — but he couldn’t countenance that claim. “Really? I just want to point out, on Day 149 of George Washington’s presidency, they passed the Bill of Rights — and it’s taken you almost two years to violate all of them.” — STEPHEN COLBERT Colbert also riffed on a recent Twitter post in which Trump said Democrats had gone “stone cold CRAZY.” “Trump, on the other hand, is sweaty hot crazy.” — STEPHEN COLBERT At an event on Monday, a reporter asked Trump whether he would cooperate with Representative Jerry Nadler, the head of the House Judiciary Committee, who is investigating whether the president committed obstruction of justice. Trump shot back: “I cooperate all the time with everybody.” James Corden cried foul. “He’s right, unless you count the special counsel, the F.B.I., every single Democrat, half his own cabinet and every country in the United Nations except Russia. Other than that, yes, everybody!” — JAMES CORDEN Jimmy Kimmel welcomed the arrival of Mardi Gras with some old-fashioned cynicism. “It’s also Mardi Gras today. Mardi Gras harkens all the way back to the 17th century, when the king of France sent Catholic missionaries to the Louisiana territory to flash their boobs in exchange for beads.” — JIMMY KIMMEL “The official slogan of Mardi Gras is ‘laissez les bons temps rouler,’ which is French for ‘I vomited in an Uber today.’” — JIMMY KIMMEL “Forbes today released their annual list of billionaires. Or as Bernie Sanders calls it, ‘the list of people we’ll eat first.’” — JIMMY KIMMEL “There are now 12 Democrats running for president. Twelve Democrats — a dozen! Isn’t that crazy? Only 12 people in this country think they can do a better job than Donald Trump.” — CONAN O’BRIEN “Hillary Clinton has announced she’s not running for president in 2020. That is tough news for Republicans — they still haven’t realized she’s no longer running in 2016.” — STEPHEN COLBERT Here, watch the Jonas Brothers tell personal secrets and eat disgusting foods. This is what television is for, right? When Kimmel underestimated the offerings of the Kangol brand, Samuel L. Jackson was there to set him straight on the headwear he popularized. Rachel Feinstein, a rising star in comedy, will chat with Conan O’Brien on Wednesday. A new art space in New York is showing nearly 70 works by the famed Brooklyn-born artist Jean-Michel Basquiat. The exhibit becomes a kind of hometown shrine for this deeply influential artist, our critic writes. Plus, Ideas for What to Watch Tonight: The 50 Best Movies on Netflix Right Now The 25 Best Films of the 21st Century The Best Movies on Amazon Prime Video Right NowSupported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — U.S. House of Representatives Democrats on Tuesday canceled a planned floor vote on legislation to set federal spending levels for next year after the party's left wing demanded more money for domestic programs. It was an awkward moment for Democrats, who won control of the House from Republicans in last November's congressional elections, but now appear unable to unify liberals and moderates around a budget plan. The House vote had been planned for Wednesday and would have been the first step in negotiations with the Republican-led Senate over spending levels. Republicans, when they led the House, had similar difficulties. Over the years, Congress has frequently failed to pass a budget blueprint.  It was only the opening salvo in what could be a long-running battle over spending levels and priorities, especially given Republican President Donald Trump's calls for deep spending cuts to non-defense programs and differences over border security policy. Such disagreements can sometimes lead to standoffs like the one that resulted in a 35-day partial government shutdown that ended earlier this year. House liberals were unhappy because the pending Democratic legislation, based on a plan approved by the Budget Committee, had set spending caps for fiscal-year 2020 with $664 billion in defense spending, higher than domestic discretionary spending at $631 billion. The liberals sought $33 billion more for domestic spending. But if that were added in, there was a danger not enough moderate Democrats would back the legislation, aides and lawmakers said.  "We fundamentally disagree with leadership. ... It's the first time Democrats are back in control, that was our opportunity to put parity between defense and non-defense," said Representative Mark Pocan, a Democrat and chairman of the Congressional Progressive Caucus. "Education, infrastructure and healthcare are really the issues that we ran on last November, and we're just trying to get the (Democratic) caucus to do that," Pocan said. Democratic leaders said talks with the Senate could still go ahead and they inserted provisions in another measure that passed on Tuesday allowing House appropriators to start work on individual spending bills. Democrats said House Speaker Nancy Pelosi would be meeting Republican Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell to try to reach a spending agreement. "If we can do that, that's the best way to do it, because then the Senate will agree to it," said House Majority leader Steny Hoyer, adding that hopefully, McConnell could then get the White House to agree.  (Reporting by Susan Cornwell and Richard Cowan; Editing by Peter Cooney)

Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — U.S. House of Representatives Democrats on Tuesday canceled a planned floor vote on legislation to set federal spending levels for next year after the party's left wing demanded more money for domestic programs. It was an awkward moment for Democrats, who won control of the House from Republicans in last November's congressional elections, but now appear unable to unify liberals and moderates around a budget plan. The House vote had been planned for Wednesday and would have been the first step in negotiations with the Republican-led Senate over spending levels. Republicans, when they led the House, had similar difficulties. Over the years, Congress has frequently failed to pass a budget blueprint.  It was only the opening salvo in what could be a long-running battle over spending levels and priorities, especially given Republican President Donald Trump's calls for deep spending cuts to non-defense programs and differences over border security policy. Such disagreements can sometimes lead to standoffs like the one that resulted in a 35-day partial government shutdown that ended earlier this year. House liberals were unhappy because the pending Democratic legislation, based on a plan approved by the Budget Committee, had set spending caps for fiscal-year 2020 with $664 billion in defense spending, higher than domestic discretionary spending at $631 billion. The liberals sought $33 billion more for domestic spending. But if that were added in, there was a danger not enough moderate Democrats would back the legislation, aides and lawmakers said.  "We fundamentally disagree with leadership. ... It's the first time Democrats are back in control, that was our opportunity to put parity between defense and non-defense," said Representative Mark Pocan, a Democrat and chairman of the Congressional Progressive Caucus. "Education, infrastructure and healthcare are really the issues that we ran on last November, and we're just trying to get the (Democratic) caucus to do that," Pocan said. Democratic leaders said talks with the Senate could still go ahead and they inserted provisions in another measure that passed on Tuesday allowing House appropriators to start work on individual spending bills. Democrats said House Speaker Nancy Pelosi would be meeting Republican Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell to try to reach a spending agreement. "If we can do that, that's the best way to do it, because then the Senate will agree to it," said House Majority leader Steny Hoyer, adding that hopefully, McConnell could then get the White House to agree.  (Reporting by Susan Cornwell and Richard Cowan; Editing by Peter Cooney)Supported by Elizabeth Warren has another very good proposal. By Paul Krugman Opinion Columnist For millions of Americans with children, life is a constant, desperate balancing act. They must work during the day, either because they’re single parents or because decades of wage stagnation mean that both parents must take jobs to make ends meet. Yet quality child care is unavailable or unaffordable. And the thing is, it doesn’t have to be this way. Other wealthy countries either have national child care systems or subsidize care to put it in everyone’s reach. It doesn’t even cost all that much. While other advanced countries spend, on average, about three times as much as we do helping families — so much for our vaunted “family values” — it’s still a relatively small part of their budgets. In particular, taking care of children is much cheaper than providing health care and retirement income to seniors, which even America does. Furthermore, caring for children doesn’t just help them grow up to be productive adults. It also has immediate economic benefits, making it easier for parents to stay in the work force.  Over the past 20 years, women’s prime-age employment in the U.S. has lagged ever further behind the rest of the advanced world — at this point we’re well below even Japan. And lack of child care is probably one main reason. So child care really should be an important part of the progressive agenda. Hillary Clinton had a serious plan back in 2016, but the news media was too busy obsessing over emails to pay attention. And if you ask me, Elizabeth Warren’s new proposal isn’t getting as much attention as it should. For the Warren proposal is the kind of initiative that, if enacted, would change millions of lives for the better, yet could actually happen in the near future.  Among other things, unlike purist visions of replacing private health insurance with “Medicare for all,” providing child care wouldn’t require imposing big new taxes on the middle class. The sums of money involved are small enough that new taxes on great wealth and high incomes, which are desirable on other grounds, could easily raise sufficient revenue. The logic of the Warren plan is fairly simple (although some commentators are trying to make it sound complex). Child care would be regulated to ensure that basic quality was maintained and subsidized to make it affordable. The size of the subsidy would depend on parents’ incomes: lower-income parents would get free care, higher-income parents would have to pay something, but nobody would have to pay more than 7 percent of income. Warren’s advisers put the budget cost at $70 billion a year, or around one-third of one percent of G.D.P. That’s not chicken feed, but it’s not that much for something that could transform so many lives.  It is, for example, well under half the revenue lost due to the Trump tax cut, which seems to have been used mainly for share buybacks. And it’s a tiny fraction of what it would cost to replace all private health insurance with a public program. So what are the objections to this plan? I’m hearing from a few people on the left who complain that the plan doesn’t go far enough — that it should involve free, direct public provision of child care, not subsidies to private provision. There’s certainly a case for a more expansive policy. There’s also no chance that it will happen anytime soon.  The perfect here is the enemy of the good. Meanwhile, on the right there are the usual cries of “socialism,” which these days means anything to the left of eating poor people’s babies. More interestingly, I’m seeing at least some commentary on the right that doesn’t just push back against the whole idea of making it easier for mothers to work, it wants us to go back to the days when families could “live on one income.” Realistically, of course, that’s not going to happen, and not just because 30 percent of U.S. children live in single-parent households. And bear in mind that even as conservatives bemoan the decline of the traditional male breadwinner, they’re pushing policies like Medicaid work requirements that basically force mothers out of the home. The bottom line is that Warren’s proposal is impressive: It’s workable, affordable, and would do a huge amount of good. And while this isn’t a horse-race column — I’m not arguing that Warren necessarily will or even should be the Democratic presidential nominee — the field needs more policy ideas like this: medium-size, medium-priced proposals that could deliver major benefits without requiring a political miracle. Right now, all of the real contenders for the Democratic nomination are solidly progressive, but so far some seem either underbriefed on policy issues — there’s been far too much fumbling over Medicare for all — or too committed to sweeping, maximalist policy visions to think seriously about what they might truly be able to do if their party takes the White House and Senate next year. Visions and values are great, but Democrats also need to be ready to hit the ground running with plans that might actually turn into legislation. And so far, Warren is setting the pace. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Paul Krugman has been an Opinion columnist since 2000 and is also a Distinguished Professor at the City University of New York Graduate Center. He won the 2008 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences for his work on international trade and economic geography.  @PaulKrugman 

Supported by Elizabeth Warren has another very good proposal. By Paul Krugman Opinion Columnist For millions of Americans with children, life is a constant, desperate balancing act. They must work during the day, either because they’re single parents or because decades of wage stagnation mean that both parents must take jobs to make ends meet. Yet quality child care is unavailable or unaffordable. And the thing is, it doesn’t have to be this way. Other wealthy countries either have national child care systems or subsidize care to put it in everyone’s reach. It doesn’t even cost all that much. While other advanced countries spend, on average, about three times as much as we do helping families — so much for our vaunted “family values” — it’s still a relatively small part of their budgets. In particular, taking care of children is much cheaper than providing health care and retirement income to seniors, which even America does. Furthermore, caring for children doesn’t just help them grow up to be productive adults. It also has immediate economic benefits, making it easier for parents to stay in the work force.  Over the past 20 years, women’s prime-age employment in the U.S. has lagged ever further behind the rest of the advanced world — at this point we’re well below even Japan. And lack of child care is probably one main reason. So child care really should be an important part of the progressive agenda. Hillary Clinton had a serious plan back in 2016, but the news media was too busy obsessing over emails to pay attention. And if you ask me, Elizabeth Warren’s new proposal isn’t getting as much attention as it should. For the Warren proposal is the kind of initiative that, if enacted, would change millions of lives for the better, yet could actually happen in the near future.  Among other things, unlike purist visions of replacing private health insurance with “Medicare for all,” providing child care wouldn’t require imposing big new taxes on the middle class. The sums of money involved are small enough that new taxes on great wealth and high incomes, which are desirable on other grounds, could easily raise sufficient revenue. The logic of the Warren plan is fairly simple (although some commentators are trying to make it sound complex). Child care would be regulated to ensure that basic quality was maintained and subsidized to make it affordable. The size of the subsidy would depend on parents’ incomes: lower-income parents would get free care, higher-income parents would have to pay something, but nobody would have to pay more than 7 percent of income. Warren’s advisers put the budget cost at $70 billion a year, or around one-third of one percent of G.D.P. That’s not chicken feed, but it’s not that much for something that could transform so many lives.  It is, for example, well under half the revenue lost due to the Trump tax cut, which seems to have been used mainly for share buybacks. And it’s a tiny fraction of what it would cost to replace all private health insurance with a public program. So what are the objections to this plan? I’m hearing from a few people on the left who complain that the plan doesn’t go far enough — that it should involve free, direct public provision of child care, not subsidies to private provision. There’s certainly a case for a more expansive policy. There’s also no chance that it will happen anytime soon.  The perfect here is the enemy of the good. Meanwhile, on the right there are the usual cries of “socialism,” which these days means anything to the left of eating poor people’s babies. More interestingly, I’m seeing at least some commentary on the right that doesn’t just push back against the whole idea of making it easier for mothers to work, it wants us to go back to the days when families could “live on one income.” Realistically, of course, that’s not going to happen, and not just because 30 percent of U.S. children live in single-parent households. And bear in mind that even as conservatives bemoan the decline of the traditional male breadwinner, they’re pushing policies like Medicaid work requirements that basically force mothers out of the home. The bottom line is that Warren’s proposal is impressive: It’s workable, affordable, and would do a huge amount of good. And while this isn’t a horse-race column — I’m not arguing that Warren necessarily will or even should be the Democratic presidential nominee — the field needs more policy ideas like this: medium-size, medium-priced proposals that could deliver major benefits without requiring a political miracle. Right now, all of the real contenders for the Democratic nomination are solidly progressive, but so far some seem either underbriefed on policy issues — there’s been far too much fumbling over Medicare for all — or too committed to sweeping, maximalist policy visions to think seriously about what they might truly be able to do if their party takes the White House and Senate next year. Visions and values are great, but Democrats also need to be ready to hit the ground running with plans that might actually turn into legislation. And so far, Warren is setting the pace. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Paul Krugman has been an Opinion columnist since 2000 and is also a Distinguished Professor at the City University of New York Graduate Center. He won the 2008 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences for his work on international trade and economic geography.  @PaulKrugman Supported by By Reuters HELSINKI — Finland's leftist Social Democrats won first place in advance voting ahead of Sunday's parliamentary election, with 18.9 percent of the votes, after 35.5 percent of ballots had been counted, justice ministry data showed. The centre-right National Coalition of outgoing Finance Minister Petteri Orpo came in second, with 17.2 percent of the advance ballots. The Centre Party of outgoing Prime Minister Juha Sipila scored third, with 15.4 percent. The nationalist True Finns party came in fourth, with 15.1 percent of the vote.  About 36 percent of voting-age Finns cast their votes in a seven-day advance voting period that ended on Tuesday. The results from these votes are often skewed due to differences in voter behaviour in different regions.  (Reporting by Justyna Pawlak)

Supported by By Reuters HELSINKI — Finland's leftist Social Democrats won first place in advance voting ahead of Sunday's parliamentary election, with 18.9 percent of the votes, after 35.5 percent of ballots had been counted, justice ministry data showed. The centre-right National Coalition of outgoing Finance Minister Petteri Orpo came in second, with 17.2 percent of the advance ballots. The Centre Party of outgoing Prime Minister Juha Sipila scored third, with 15.4 percent. The nationalist True Finns party came in fourth, with 15.1 percent of the vote.  About 36 percent of voting-age Finns cast their votes in a seven-day advance voting period that ended on Tuesday. The results from these votes are often skewed due to differences in voter behaviour in different regions.  (Reporting by Justyna Pawlak)Supported by By Nicholas Fandos WASHINGTON — The chairman of the House Judiciary Committee delivered a flurry of demands for documents from the executive branch and the broader Trump world on Monday that detailed the breadth and ambition of a new investigation into possible obstruction of justice, corruption and abuse of power by President Trump and his administration. In the two months since they took control of the House, Democrats on several committees have begun scrutinizing members of the president’s cabinet, his businesses, his campaign and his inaugural committee, as well as his ties to key foreign powers, including Russia, which tried to disrupt the 2016 presidential election. They have also laid the groundwork to try to obtain Mr. Trump’s tax returns. But the newest requests from Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, the Judiciary Committee chairman, opened perhaps the most perilous front to date for Mr. Trump — an inquiry that takes aim at the heart of his norm-bending presidency and could conceivably form the basis of a future impeachment proceeding. Mr. Nadler was explicit on Monday in saying that the House was no longer content to await the findings of the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, and would delve into many of the same issues, but with a different standard of evidence not wedded to a criminal indictment. “We will act quickly to gather this information, assess the evidence and follow the facts where they lead with full transparency with the American people,” Mr. Nadler said in a statement. “This is a critical time for our nation, and we have a responsibility to investigate these matters and hold hearings for the public to have all the facts. That is exactly what we intend to do.” Unlike Mr. Mueller, though, who has access to a grand jury to compel evidence, the Judiciary Committee could face significant hurdles to obtaining some of the material it seeks. Aides to the committee said that they had intentionally limited their initial requests to material already provided to other congressional committees or federal investigators to ensure substantial compliance. But witnesses could still choose to slow-walk production or defy subpoenas. Mr. Trump could choose to go further and assert executive privilege over certain materials, as well. The letters from Mr. Nadler, dated March 4, went to 81 agencies, individuals and other entities tied to the president. They included the Trump Organization, the Trump campaign, the Trump Foundation, the presidential inaugural committee and the White House. The Justice Department and the F.B.I., which have collected substantial evidence on Mr. Trump’s behind-the-scenes interactions with federal investigators, were also recipients. Letters also went out to dozens of the president’s closest family members and aides who counseled him as he sought to suppress the story of a pornographic film actress, Stormy Daniels, whose claim of an affair threatened his presidential campaign, and later as he began attacks against federal investigations into him and his associates, the news media and the federal judiciary. As a part of the inquiry, the committee will also investigate accusations of corruption, including possible violations of campaign finance law, the Constitution’s ban on foreign emoluments and the use of office for personal gain. Mr. Nadler did not mention the word impeachment in any of Monday’s documents, but its specter hangs heavily over Democratic leaders as they wade deeper into the president’s circles. The House Judiciary Committee is where impeachment proceedings begin. In an interview last week with The New York Times, Mr. Nadler said that he believed Mr. Trump had committed crimes while in office and had threatened basic constitutional norms. But he said he did not yet have the evidence to make the kind of overwhelming, bipartisan case against the president he believes he needs before pursuing a step as disruptive as impeachment. Monday’s requests could build that case. Twice in the past half-century, the committee has drawn up impeachment articles based, in part, on the same themes that Mr. Nadler laid out: obstruction of justice and abuse of power. There is already evidence in the public of the kind of actions the committee believes could cross those lines, and Mr. Mueller’s investigation could provide more, even if it does not ultimately recommend charging the president. transcript Hosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Rachel Quester, Alexandra Leigh Young and Jessica Cheung, and edited by Lisa Tobin A conversation with Representative Jerry Nadler, the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, about how Congress is preparing for the results of the special counsel investigation. michael barbaro From The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today: Once the special counsel’s report has been released, it’s up to Congress and its oversight committees to determine what happens next. As head of the Judiciary Committee, much of that will fall to Representative Jerry Nadler. Part 3 of what to expect from the Mueller report. It’s Tuesday, March 12. archived recording (erin burnett) And good evening. I’m Erin Burnett. OutFront tonight: The biggest threat to President Trump. His name — and it’s a person — is Jerry Nadler. archived recording 1 Jerry Nadler. archived recording 2 Jerry Nadler. archived recording 3 Jerry Nadler of New York, the Democratic head of the House Judiciary Committee. archived recording (erin burnett) The committee with the power to lead impeachment proceedings against the president of the United States. archived recording 4 He is investigating, quote, “allegations of obstruction of justice, public corruption and other abuses of power.” archived recording 5 Democrats, led by House Judiciary chairman Jerry Nadler, are carpet-bombing the White House with document requests. archived recording 6 He is now facing a brand-new investigation, the widest since the launch of the Mueller inquiry. archived recording 7 This has given folks at the White House an idea of what they’re in for the next two years or so as Democrats lay the groundwork for 2020 and a possible impeachment. representative jerry nadler Testing, 2, 4, 6. Testing, 3, 6, 9. Testing, 4, 8 12. We can do the 5s. speaker Let’s hear it! [PHONE RINGING] michael barbaro Hello. Congressman? representative jerry nadler Hi. michael barbaro Hi. How are you? representative jerry nadler O.K. How are you? michael barbaro Good. Thank you again for making some time for us. We really appreciate it. representative jerry nadler You’re quite welcome. michael barbaro So Congressman, over the last couple of weeks on “The Daily,” we’ve explained to listeners how the Mueller report will be released. It goes to the attorney general. The attorney general then releases a report on the report that goes to Congress. And we’ve explained that it will either say we have evidence the president committed a crime, or we don’t have that evidence. We wanted to talk to you about what happens when that report gets to you. representative jerry nadler We investigate further. The fact that he committed a crime is of great interest. It’s not necessarily a guarantee of impeachment. Those are two different tests, as you know. We have a responsibility well beyond the Mueller report. We have an obligation to do our own work. The Mueller report is only for what happened with respect to Russian interference in the election and with complicity by Americans in that interference and what crimes were committed and by whom. We have to be considerably broader. I mean, that’s part of our work, but our basic work is to provide for the rule of law, make sure that the rule of law is protected. That means that we have to look into obstruction of justice, into corruption, into abuses of power. And certainly what Mueller is looking into is part of that, but we have to be much broader. michael barbaro You said that a Mueller report that says the president committed a crime is not necessarily grounds for impeachment. Can you help me understand what you mean by that? What’s a scenario in which the Mueller report says the president committed a crime but wouldn’t equal impeachment, necessarily, in your mind? representative jerry nadler Well, you have to understand that not every crime is an impeachable offense, and an impeachable offense needn’t be a crime. There are two different tests. So for example, if the Mueller report were to show that the president committed perjury with respect to money laundering five years ago in some scheme in New York to cheat — I don’t know. That would not be impeachable, because impeachment is an abuse of presidential power for the purpose or with the effect of aggrandizing power to the executive, of damaging liberty or the structure and functioning of government, the separation of powers. That’s what’s impeachable. Also, corruptly obtaining an election would be impeachable. But crimes that don’t bear on that would not be impeachable. So I said 20 years ago that the president’s perjury about a private sexual affair was not impeachable. And if President Trump were to be shown to have perjured himself about some business deal, that would not be impeachable. But if he were shown to commit perjury or to do something else that affected the structure and functioning of government or democratic rights or the integrity of elections, that would be impeachable. michael barbaro So what do you do if the Mueller report says that the president committed a crime like money laundering five years ago but did not commit what you see as an impeachable offense? representative jerry nadler Well, if the president was shown to have committed a crime of money laundering five years ago, I would hope the New York — he should be prosecuted for that. michael barbaro In New York, right? representative jerry nadler Yeah, in New York, by the federal Southern District of New York or by the New York authorities or both, period. That’s the criminal justice system. Now the Justice Department maintains, wrongly in my opinion, that a sitting president cannot be indicted while in office, so they will not indict a president for committing some crime. I think it’s the wrong policy. I think they should be able to indict a president while he’s in office, but that’s not the real function of what we’re doing in our committee. Our committee’s job is not a criminal justice job. That’s up to the Department of Justice. That’s up to the New York state authorities. Our job is to protect the structure of democratic government and the liberties of the people. If the president committed a crime that has nothing to do with this, well, he ought to be prosecuted, but that’s not our business. We’re not a law enforcement agency. michael barbaro O.K., well, let’s flip this around and say the Mueller report finds that the president committed a crime that is absolutely grounds for impeachment. What do you do then? representative jerry nadler Well, we have to further investigate it. Let’s put it this way. We have to do all these investigations now that we’re starting to do focused on obstruction, corruption, abuse of the power structure, et cetera. If we find that the president is guilty of that, then we have to decide what we can do about it. Impeachment is one option. But impeachment is the decision to be made further down the road, and it’s a very high bar. But it certainly would be on the table if we were to find that. michael barbaro Do you know what the bar is in your mind? representative jerry nadler Yes, and I’ve said it many times. I think there’s a threefold test for impeachment, really. Number one, has the president committed impeachable offenses? Number two, are those serious? And if the answer to the first two is yes, I think there’s one further test, and that is impeachment cannot be partisan. What you don’t want to do is divide the country so that half the country thinks for the next 30 years, we won the election. You stole it from us. You don’t want to embitter the country. The situation has to be such that you believe when you start the impeachment proceeding that the evidence you have is so persuasive of such terrible deeds that once the evidence is laid out, an appreciable fraction of the voters who voted for Trump will reluctantly say you had to do it. You’re not just trying to steal the election. michael barbaro But the first two conditions you laid out — is it impeachable, is it serious — those feel quite subjective. So I wonder if any argument to impeach will inevitably feel partisan and therefore make your third — representative jerry nadler Any argument — michael barbaro — condition hard, which is consensus? representative jerry nadler — to impeach is going to be political. Impeachment is a political task, and it’s intended to be by the Constitution. Yes, it’s going to be subjective. All political decisions are subjective. I shouldn’t say that. Almost all political decisions are subjective. But if this occurs, people are going to be on both sides, and some people will think you’re fair, and some won’t. But you have to really depend on the facts that you have at that point. You have to have very strong proof of very dire facts. And by the way, let me just step back. I’m a little concerned that we’re talking too much about impeachment. Our goal is not impeachment. Our goal is what I said a few minutes ago, to protect the rule of law, to protect the structure and functioning of government, to protect our liberties. That’s the basic goal. And if we can do that without impeachment, fine. If we have to do impeachment and if we meet the requirements so that we think we can do it, also fine. michael barbaro Understood. I want to ask you about some of the comments you have made ahead of the release of the Mueller report. You were asked a question, and in your response you said that you believed the president obstructed justice. And I wonder why you would — representative jerry nadler Let me say the following. I think there is a lot of evidence the president obstructed justice, but we have to go a lot further. We have to know a lot more. michael barbaro But I wonder why you would say that publicly before the release of the Mueller report. What’s the value in doing that? Does it not inherently portray whatever investigation — representative jerry nadler Well, I believe in answering questions honestly. I was asked the question. I didn’t volunteer it. I was asked the question, and I said yes, I think certain things which — michael barbaro Right, and — representative jerry nadler — are in public view — michael barbaro — I like asking questions, but why not say, let’s wait until the Mueller report comes out? representative jerry nadler Well, maybe I should have, but the fact is I think certain things that are in the public record make a strong case that there was obstruction, and other people say the same thing. But a strong case is not proof. Actually, I shouldn’t say a strong case. A lot of evidence is a better way of putting it. That’s not necessarily proof, and certainly not enough to convince the country at this point, and we have to have a lot more evidence and a lot more facts, and we need to know what the Mueller report said, and we may need to know a lot more than what the Mueller report says. michael barbaro So re-asking the same question now that I think you were asked about 10 days or so ago, do you believe the president obstructed justice? representative jerry nadler I think there’s a lot of evidence that he obstructed justice, and Mueller will tell us a lot more about that, and that’s one of the things we have to know. michael barbaro Are you concerned — and I appreciate you saying that maybe you shouldn’t have said it — but are you concerned that people will see this as a preconceived judgment? I know that at least some of your colleagues, like Jim Jordan, do see it that way heading into these investigations. representative jerry nadler No matter what I say or do, they’re going to say that. It’s the Republican strategy to say I decided to impeach the president the day after the election. It’s just an intent to distract. We haven’t decided. I haven’t decided to impeach. Some people have said that when I say, especially that third requirement, that’s a very high bar — and some people have said it may be an impossible bar. It may be. The three tests that I have said I didn’t invent. When we had the Clinton impeachment and I was a junior member of the committee, the first thing I did was to try to get my hands on everything that’s been written from Blackstone onward as to what’s an impeachable offense. But the second thing I did 20 years ago was I demanded that before we held hearings of the committee on fact, that we first hold a hearing on what’s an impeachable offense. And even though I was a minority member of the committee, I persuaded people, and we did that. And so what I’ve been talking about is basically what I got from that. I didn’t make up this test. michael barbaro Well, Congressman, I do have to point out that you said that we were talking too much about impeachment, but now you are talking about impeachment. representative jerry nadler O.K., fair enough. But what I’m trying to say is we’re not focused on that. We will take the facts where they lead, and we’ll see. michael barbaro I want to stay with the topic of Mueller for a moment. You and your colleagues have held up Robert Mueller as a kind of gold standard of objectivity and fairness in all of this, as somebody who has the integrity, the background to kind of handle this properly. You have a lot of faith in him. Do you agree that there is basically no path to impeachment — sorry to use the word again — if the Mueller report finds no crimes? representative jerry nadler No, not necessarily. It depends what else we find. It depends what else is going on. There may be a lot of other things that we have to look into and that may be very damning. michael barbaro And as you said earlier, there is such a thing as an impeachable offense that is not a crime. Can you help us understand — representative jerry nadler Yes, they’re quite different tests. michael barbaro — what that might look like? representative jerry nadler O.K. An impeachable offense is not a crime. Well, misuse of the pardon power, for example, misuse of other powers of the presidency. It is not true, as Mayor Giuliani has said and as a lot of other people have said, that the president has the absolute right to do this, and therefore if he does this, it cannot be wrong. The president has the right to do certain things. michael barbaro Pardons, you mean. representative jerry nadler For example. The president has the absolute right to pardon anybody. But if the president was shown to pardon somebody in return for a $50,000 check, that would be a crime. It would also be an impeachable offense. michael barbaro Or to obstruct an investigation. representative jerry nadler Or to obstruct an investigation — in other words, if it were shown for a corrupt motive. So the motive is what counts in a lot of these things. michael barbaro So in November of 2016, right after President Trump was elected, you called for then-F.B.I. director James Comey to be forced out of his job because of how he handled the investigation of Hillary Clinton and his decision not to charge her with a crime yet still detail her wrongdoing for the public. We all remember that news conference and how that worked, and you called that unforgivable. If Robert Mueller says no crime has been committed when it comes to the president, would you, as head of the Judiciary Committee, still try to bring forward to the public the information behind the Mueller investigation? And if you were did you that, I wonder what’s different in your mind between what Comey did and what you would be doing? representative jerry nadler Yes. There’s a fundamental difference. The Justice Department has a very salutary general policy, and that is if you don’t indict somebody — why don’t you indict somebody? You didn’t have the evidence, obviously. You’ve investigated so and so. You’re not indicting her or him. You don’t comment negatively. You should, in a case of public notoriety, you should announce we’ve investigated. We’re not indicting him. That’s fine. But you have a policy, which the Justice Department does, that the president cannot be indicted no matter how much evidence just because he’s the president. Therefore we can’t comment on evidence against him or anything else. Then you’re converting a normally good policy into a cover-up, and you’re depriving Congress of its ability to hold the president accountable. You, the Justice Department, won’t hold him accountable because you’ve said you have no right to. You can’t indict him. That leaves only Congress, and now you’re going to deny Congress the right to the information. That makes the president unaccountable and above the law, and that cannot be. michael barbaro But just to be clear, if Mueller says no crimes, the public still needs to see the evidence regardless, because the rules are different here. representative jerry nadler No, the public needs to see the evidence, number one, so it can be confident that it’s true. We’ve tried to protect Mueller because by all accounts he’s an honest guy, et cetera, et cetera, and the investigation has to proceed. But whatever he says, we can’t take it on faith. We don’t operate that way. We shouldn’t take things on faith. And if he says the president has committed crimes, we should know what the evidence is. If he says the president hasn’t committed crimes, we should know what the evidence is. And if the president hasn’t committed crimes but has done terrible things that he knows about, we should know that too. Or if the president has done nothing wrong, we should know that. The public has a great interest in the president, obviously. michael barbaro So I just want to be very clear on why the case of Comey is different from the case of Mueller in terms of using — representative jerry nadler Essentially because when he announced that he wasn’t indicting Hillary, it was because he thought there wasn’t enough evidence to indict Hillary, the normal reason you don’t indict somebody. If Mueller decides not to indict the president, then the public ought to know that and hear that and see the evidence on which he bases that. michael barbaro So I want to talk to you, Congressman, about the politics of all of this and what the path forward might mean for the Democratic Party, because, as you know, the Republican Party has stood solidly behind the president this entire time. They have not budged at all. If Robert Mueller says at the end of the day that no crimes have been committed by the president, but your committee and others continue to investigate the president, are you concerned that this will inflict even more damage and partisanship on an already pretty divided and highly partisan American public — representative jerry nadler Not if we do it responsibly — michael barbaro — and maybe hurt the Democratic Party in the process? representative jerry nadler Not if we do it responsibly. Congress must hold the executive accountable. And that is with respect to crimes. It’s respect to bad deeds. It’s respect to corruption, et cetera, and it’s respect to policy. We have to provide the accountability, and we have to let the American people know what is being done in their names, and let them judge. michael barbaro But how do you explain to the American people, who are pretty exhausted by all this, why you’re going to keep pursuing an investigation after Mueller — representative jerry nadler Well, it depends what he says and how much he covers, and that will help determine how much we have left to do. And the answer is that we can’t rely on others to do the work for us. We have an obligation to do our own work. That’s why we were elected. And at the end of the day, the American people decide not the week after Mueller releases his report but election day next year whether we have acted responsibly or irresponsibly in a partisan or reasonable way. michael barbaro Well, would you put your belief in the need to pursue the facts over the short-term well-being of the Democratic Party if those two things seem to turn out to be at odds with one another and in conflict? representative jerry nadler I think it’s my constitutional duty to do so. michael barbaro This may sound a little corny, but in this moment, with everyone waiting for what’s next, what message do you want to give to Americans on what we can see as kind of the eve of the Mueller report? representative jerry nadler What message? That, one, we have an administration that has attacked the institutions of government and of liberty on which we depend on in fundamental ways, and we have to rein it in. We have to make sure that the separation of powers is maintained and that liberty and the rule of law is maintained, and that the Mueller report will give us hopefully a lot of information, but that Congress has to do the job we were elected to do. And that the administration has to understand that the American people elected a Congress that wants to hold the administration accountable, and we will do that, and the Mueller report will help us do that to a greater or lesser extent, but it’s fundamentally our job. michael barbaro Congressman, thank you for your time. We really appreciate it. representative jerry nadler You’re welcome. Take care. michael barbaro Cheers. The politics of impeachment are more charged. The president and the White House have repeatedly rejected accusations of wrongdoing, arguing that Mr. Trump is innocent of many accusations and has broad powers in his office to run the government as he chooses. And there have been few cracks among Republican lawmakers, the president’s congressional firewall. In a statement on Monday evening, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, assailed the inquiry as “disgraceful and abusive,” and called it a “fishing expedition.” “The Democrats are not after the truth,” she said. “They are after the president.” Republicans in Congress assert that Democrats have already decided to target Mr. Trump for impeachment, saying repeatedly in recent weeks that despite public statements to the contrary, the new majority is determined to kick Mr. Trump out of office. “We don’t even know what the Mueller report says, but Democrats are already hedging their bets,” said Representative Doug Collins of Georgia, the Judiciary Committee’s top Republican. “After recklessly prejudging the president for obstruction, Chairman Nadler is pursuing evidence to back up his conclusion because, as he admits, ‘We don’t have the facts yet.’” Democrats also widened another front on Monday, as the chairmen of the Foreign Affairs, Intelligence and Oversight committees wrote to the White House and State Department to request detailed documentation related to Mr. Trump’s communications with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia and to reported efforts to conceal aspects of those communications. Committees in both the House and Senate have nibbled around the edges of several of the episodes raised by Mr. Nadler. But his investigation suggests a more coherent, deep investigation that could seek to tie together the scheme to pay off Ms. Daniels; the firing of James B. Comey as F.B.I. director; Mr. Trump’s attempts to remove the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III; the president’s apparent dangling of pardons and threatening of witnesses to the investigation; and other events. From Donald F. McGahn II, the former White House counsel, alone, Mr. Nadler requested all documents related to the resignation of Michael T. Flynn as national security adviser; interactions with and the firing of Mr. Comey; attempts to fire Mr. Mueller; communications with Mr. Trump about Jeff Sessions, the president’s first attorney general; and about open investigations into his presidency, among more than a dozen other topics. Mr. Nadler requested documents from Annie Donaldson, Mr. McGahn’s deputy who took exhaustive notes detailing Mr. Trump’s behavior in the West Wing in real time. Other targets include David J. Pecker, the chairman of American Media Inc., which publishes The National Enquirer and played a key role in suppressing Ms. Daniels’s story; Allen Weisselberg, the chief financial officer of the Trump Organization; Alan Garten, its lawyer; Mr. Sessions; and Thomas J. Barrack Jr., a close associate of Mr. Trump’s who led his inaugural committee. Michael D. Cohen, the president’s former lawyer and longtime fixer, who testified publicly last week before another House committee about the illegal hush money scheme, was sent three pages of requests, including any relevant “audio or video recordings.” Mr. Nadler also asked for information from Jared Kushner, the president’s son-in-law and senior adviser, and his two adult sons, Donald Trump Jr. and Eric Trump. Ivanka Trump, who is married to Mr. Kushner and works in the White House, was not included among the initial requests. The committee said that additional requests for documents would follow in the coming weeks. Lawyers for Mr. Nadler are prepared for protracted negotiations or outright fights over certain requests. If the recipients of the requests do not voluntarily comply, Mr. Nadler will most likely issue subpoenas to compel them. But even if he does, there are practical limitations that could significantly slow his efforts if a witness were to challenge the subpoena in court. The most significant hurdle could come from Mr. Trump himself. The White House could choose to assert executive privilege to try to protect many of the materials central to the committee’s inquiry, including communications between Mr. Trump, Mr. McGahn and other advisers. Such claims are usually the president’s prerogative, but any such claim would almost certainly lead to a lengthy court fight that could delay the inquiry. In a sign of how taxing the inquiry may become, Mr. Nadler has hired two elite white-collar litigators, Norman L. Eisen and Barry H. Berke, to oversee it with his staff. An earlier version of this article misstated the suffix of a former White House counsel. He is Donald F. McGahn II, not III. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.

Supported by By Nicholas Fandos WASHINGTON — The chairman of the House Judiciary Committee delivered a flurry of demands for documents from the executive branch and the broader Trump world on Monday that detailed the breadth and ambition of a new investigation into possible obstruction of justice, corruption and abuse of power by President Trump and his administration. In the two months since they took control of the House, Democrats on several committees have begun scrutinizing members of the president’s cabinet, his businesses, his campaign and his inaugural committee, as well as his ties to key foreign powers, including Russia, which tried to disrupt the 2016 presidential election. They have also laid the groundwork to try to obtain Mr. Trump’s tax returns. But the newest requests from Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, the Judiciary Committee chairman, opened perhaps the most perilous front to date for Mr. Trump — an inquiry that takes aim at the heart of his norm-bending presidency and could conceivably form the basis of a future impeachment proceeding. Mr. Nadler was explicit on Monday in saying that the House was no longer content to await the findings of the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, and would delve into many of the same issues, but with a different standard of evidence not wedded to a criminal indictment. “We will act quickly to gather this information, assess the evidence and follow the facts where they lead with full transparency with the American people,” Mr. Nadler said in a statement. “This is a critical time for our nation, and we have a responsibility to investigate these matters and hold hearings for the public to have all the facts. That is exactly what we intend to do.” Unlike Mr. Mueller, though, who has access to a grand jury to compel evidence, the Judiciary Committee could face significant hurdles to obtaining some of the material it seeks. Aides to the committee said that they had intentionally limited their initial requests to material already provided to other congressional committees or federal investigators to ensure substantial compliance. But witnesses could still choose to slow-walk production or defy subpoenas. Mr. Trump could choose to go further and assert executive privilege over certain materials, as well. The letters from Mr. Nadler, dated March 4, went to 81 agencies, individuals and other entities tied to the president. They included the Trump Organization, the Trump campaign, the Trump Foundation, the presidential inaugural committee and the White House. The Justice Department and the F.B.I., which have collected substantial evidence on Mr. Trump’s behind-the-scenes interactions with federal investigators, were also recipients. Letters also went out to dozens of the president’s closest family members and aides who counseled him as he sought to suppress the story of a pornographic film actress, Stormy Daniels, whose claim of an affair threatened his presidential campaign, and later as he began attacks against federal investigations into him and his associates, the news media and the federal judiciary. As a part of the inquiry, the committee will also investigate accusations of corruption, including possible violations of campaign finance law, the Constitution’s ban on foreign emoluments and the use of office for personal gain. Mr. Nadler did not mention the word impeachment in any of Monday’s documents, but its specter hangs heavily over Democratic leaders as they wade deeper into the president’s circles. The House Judiciary Committee is where impeachment proceedings begin. In an interview last week with The New York Times, Mr. Nadler said that he believed Mr. Trump had committed crimes while in office and had threatened basic constitutional norms. But he said he did not yet have the evidence to make the kind of overwhelming, bipartisan case against the president he believes he needs before pursuing a step as disruptive as impeachment. Monday’s requests could build that case. Twice in the past half-century, the committee has drawn up impeachment articles based, in part, on the same themes that Mr. Nadler laid out: obstruction of justice and abuse of power. There is already evidence in the public of the kind of actions the committee believes could cross those lines, and Mr. Mueller’s investigation could provide more, even if it does not ultimately recommend charging the president. transcript Hosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Rachel Quester, Alexandra Leigh Young and Jessica Cheung, and edited by Lisa Tobin A conversation with Representative Jerry Nadler, the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, about how Congress is preparing for the results of the special counsel investigation. michael barbaro From The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today: Once the special counsel’s report has been released, it’s up to Congress and its oversight committees to determine what happens next. As head of the Judiciary Committee, much of that will fall to Representative Jerry Nadler. Part 3 of what to expect from the Mueller report. It’s Tuesday, March 12. archived recording (erin burnett) And good evening. I’m Erin Burnett. OutFront tonight: The biggest threat to President Trump. His name — and it’s a person — is Jerry Nadler. archived recording 1 Jerry Nadler. archived recording 2 Jerry Nadler. archived recording 3 Jerry Nadler of New York, the Democratic head of the House Judiciary Committee. archived recording (erin burnett) The committee with the power to lead impeachment proceedings against the president of the United States. archived recording 4 He is investigating, quote, “allegations of obstruction of justice, public corruption and other abuses of power.” archived recording 5 Democrats, led by House Judiciary chairman Jerry Nadler, are carpet-bombing the White House with document requests. archived recording 6 He is now facing a brand-new investigation, the widest since the launch of the Mueller inquiry. archived recording 7 This has given folks at the White House an idea of what they’re in for the next two years or so as Democrats lay the groundwork for 2020 and a possible impeachment. representative jerry nadler Testing, 2, 4, 6. Testing, 3, 6, 9. Testing, 4, 8 12. We can do the 5s. speaker Let’s hear it! [PHONE RINGING] michael barbaro Hello. Congressman? representative jerry nadler Hi. michael barbaro Hi. How are you? representative jerry nadler O.K. How are you? michael barbaro Good. Thank you again for making some time for us. We really appreciate it. representative jerry nadler You’re quite welcome. michael barbaro So Congressman, over the last couple of weeks on “The Daily,” we’ve explained to listeners how the Mueller report will be released. It goes to the attorney general. The attorney general then releases a report on the report that goes to Congress. And we’ve explained that it will either say we have evidence the president committed a crime, or we don’t have that evidence. We wanted to talk to you about what happens when that report gets to you. representative jerry nadler We investigate further. The fact that he committed a crime is of great interest. It’s not necessarily a guarantee of impeachment. Those are two different tests, as you know. We have a responsibility well beyond the Mueller report. We have an obligation to do our own work. The Mueller report is only for what happened with respect to Russian interference in the election and with complicity by Americans in that interference and what crimes were committed and by whom. We have to be considerably broader. I mean, that’s part of our work, but our basic work is to provide for the rule of law, make sure that the rule of law is protected. That means that we have to look into obstruction of justice, into corruption, into abuses of power. And certainly what Mueller is looking into is part of that, but we have to be much broader. michael barbaro You said that a Mueller report that says the president committed a crime is not necessarily grounds for impeachment. Can you help me understand what you mean by that? What’s a scenario in which the Mueller report says the president committed a crime but wouldn’t equal impeachment, necessarily, in your mind? representative jerry nadler Well, you have to understand that not every crime is an impeachable offense, and an impeachable offense needn’t be a crime. There are two different tests. So for example, if the Mueller report were to show that the president committed perjury with respect to money laundering five years ago in some scheme in New York to cheat — I don’t know. That would not be impeachable, because impeachment is an abuse of presidential power for the purpose or with the effect of aggrandizing power to the executive, of damaging liberty or the structure and functioning of government, the separation of powers. That’s what’s impeachable. Also, corruptly obtaining an election would be impeachable. But crimes that don’t bear on that would not be impeachable. So I said 20 years ago that the president’s perjury about a private sexual affair was not impeachable. And if President Trump were to be shown to have perjured himself about some business deal, that would not be impeachable. But if he were shown to commit perjury or to do something else that affected the structure and functioning of government or democratic rights or the integrity of elections, that would be impeachable. michael barbaro So what do you do if the Mueller report says that the president committed a crime like money laundering five years ago but did not commit what you see as an impeachable offense? representative jerry nadler Well, if the president was shown to have committed a crime of money laundering five years ago, I would hope the New York — he should be prosecuted for that. michael barbaro In New York, right? representative jerry nadler Yeah, in New York, by the federal Southern District of New York or by the New York authorities or both, period. That’s the criminal justice system. Now the Justice Department maintains, wrongly in my opinion, that a sitting president cannot be indicted while in office, so they will not indict a president for committing some crime. I think it’s the wrong policy. I think they should be able to indict a president while he’s in office, but that’s not the real function of what we’re doing in our committee. Our committee’s job is not a criminal justice job. That’s up to the Department of Justice. That’s up to the New York state authorities. Our job is to protect the structure of democratic government and the liberties of the people. If the president committed a crime that has nothing to do with this, well, he ought to be prosecuted, but that’s not our business. We’re not a law enforcement agency. michael barbaro O.K., well, let’s flip this around and say the Mueller report finds that the president committed a crime that is absolutely grounds for impeachment. What do you do then? representative jerry nadler Well, we have to further investigate it. Let’s put it this way. We have to do all these investigations now that we’re starting to do focused on obstruction, corruption, abuse of the power structure, et cetera. If we find that the president is guilty of that, then we have to decide what we can do about it. Impeachment is one option. But impeachment is the decision to be made further down the road, and it’s a very high bar. But it certainly would be on the table if we were to find that. michael barbaro Do you know what the bar is in your mind? representative jerry nadler Yes, and I’ve said it many times. I think there’s a threefold test for impeachment, really. Number one, has the president committed impeachable offenses? Number two, are those serious? And if the answer to the first two is yes, I think there’s one further test, and that is impeachment cannot be partisan. What you don’t want to do is divide the country so that half the country thinks for the next 30 years, we won the election. You stole it from us. You don’t want to embitter the country. The situation has to be such that you believe when you start the impeachment proceeding that the evidence you have is so persuasive of such terrible deeds that once the evidence is laid out, an appreciable fraction of the voters who voted for Trump will reluctantly say you had to do it. You’re not just trying to steal the election. michael barbaro But the first two conditions you laid out — is it impeachable, is it serious — those feel quite subjective. So I wonder if any argument to impeach will inevitably feel partisan and therefore make your third — representative jerry nadler Any argument — michael barbaro — condition hard, which is consensus? representative jerry nadler — to impeach is going to be political. Impeachment is a political task, and it’s intended to be by the Constitution. Yes, it’s going to be subjective. All political decisions are subjective. I shouldn’t say that. Almost all political decisions are subjective. But if this occurs, people are going to be on both sides, and some people will think you’re fair, and some won’t. But you have to really depend on the facts that you have at that point. You have to have very strong proof of very dire facts. And by the way, let me just step back. I’m a little concerned that we’re talking too much about impeachment. Our goal is not impeachment. Our goal is what I said a few minutes ago, to protect the rule of law, to protect the structure and functioning of government, to protect our liberties. That’s the basic goal. And if we can do that without impeachment, fine. If we have to do impeachment and if we meet the requirements so that we think we can do it, also fine. michael barbaro Understood. I want to ask you about some of the comments you have made ahead of the release of the Mueller report. You were asked a question, and in your response you said that you believed the president obstructed justice. And I wonder why you would — representative jerry nadler Let me say the following. I think there is a lot of evidence the president obstructed justice, but we have to go a lot further. We have to know a lot more. michael barbaro But I wonder why you would say that publicly before the release of the Mueller report. What’s the value in doing that? Does it not inherently portray whatever investigation — representative jerry nadler Well, I believe in answering questions honestly. I was asked the question. I didn’t volunteer it. I was asked the question, and I said yes, I think certain things which — michael barbaro Right, and — representative jerry nadler — are in public view — michael barbaro — I like asking questions, but why not say, let’s wait until the Mueller report comes out? representative jerry nadler Well, maybe I should have, but the fact is I think certain things that are in the public record make a strong case that there was obstruction, and other people say the same thing. But a strong case is not proof. Actually, I shouldn’t say a strong case. A lot of evidence is a better way of putting it. That’s not necessarily proof, and certainly not enough to convince the country at this point, and we have to have a lot more evidence and a lot more facts, and we need to know what the Mueller report said, and we may need to know a lot more than what the Mueller report says. michael barbaro So re-asking the same question now that I think you were asked about 10 days or so ago, do you believe the president obstructed justice? representative jerry nadler I think there’s a lot of evidence that he obstructed justice, and Mueller will tell us a lot more about that, and that’s one of the things we have to know. michael barbaro Are you concerned — and I appreciate you saying that maybe you shouldn’t have said it — but are you concerned that people will see this as a preconceived judgment? I know that at least some of your colleagues, like Jim Jordan, do see it that way heading into these investigations. representative jerry nadler No matter what I say or do, they’re going to say that. It’s the Republican strategy to say I decided to impeach the president the day after the election. It’s just an intent to distract. We haven’t decided. I haven’t decided to impeach. Some people have said that when I say, especially that third requirement, that’s a very high bar — and some people have said it may be an impossible bar. It may be. The three tests that I have said I didn’t invent. When we had the Clinton impeachment and I was a junior member of the committee, the first thing I did was to try to get my hands on everything that’s been written from Blackstone onward as to what’s an impeachable offense. But the second thing I did 20 years ago was I demanded that before we held hearings of the committee on fact, that we first hold a hearing on what’s an impeachable offense. And even though I was a minority member of the committee, I persuaded people, and we did that. And so what I’ve been talking about is basically what I got from that. I didn’t make up this test. michael barbaro Well, Congressman, I do have to point out that you said that we were talking too much about impeachment, but now you are talking about impeachment. representative jerry nadler O.K., fair enough. But what I’m trying to say is we’re not focused on that. We will take the facts where they lead, and we’ll see. michael barbaro I want to stay with the topic of Mueller for a moment. You and your colleagues have held up Robert Mueller as a kind of gold standard of objectivity and fairness in all of this, as somebody who has the integrity, the background to kind of handle this properly. You have a lot of faith in him. Do you agree that there is basically no path to impeachment — sorry to use the word again — if the Mueller report finds no crimes? representative jerry nadler No, not necessarily. It depends what else we find. It depends what else is going on. There may be a lot of other things that we have to look into and that may be very damning. michael barbaro And as you said earlier, there is such a thing as an impeachable offense that is not a crime. Can you help us understand — representative jerry nadler Yes, they’re quite different tests. michael barbaro — what that might look like? representative jerry nadler O.K. An impeachable offense is not a crime. Well, misuse of the pardon power, for example, misuse of other powers of the presidency. It is not true, as Mayor Giuliani has said and as a lot of other people have said, that the president has the absolute right to do this, and therefore if he does this, it cannot be wrong. The president has the right to do certain things. michael barbaro Pardons, you mean. representative jerry nadler For example. The president has the absolute right to pardon anybody. But if the president was shown to pardon somebody in return for a $50,000 check, that would be a crime. It would also be an impeachable offense. michael barbaro Or to obstruct an investigation. representative jerry nadler Or to obstruct an investigation — in other words, if it were shown for a corrupt motive. So the motive is what counts in a lot of these things. michael barbaro So in November of 2016, right after President Trump was elected, you called for then-F.B.I. director James Comey to be forced out of his job because of how he handled the investigation of Hillary Clinton and his decision not to charge her with a crime yet still detail her wrongdoing for the public. We all remember that news conference and how that worked, and you called that unforgivable. If Robert Mueller says no crime has been committed when it comes to the president, would you, as head of the Judiciary Committee, still try to bring forward to the public the information behind the Mueller investigation? And if you were did you that, I wonder what’s different in your mind between what Comey did and what you would be doing? representative jerry nadler Yes. There’s a fundamental difference. The Justice Department has a very salutary general policy, and that is if you don’t indict somebody — why don’t you indict somebody? You didn’t have the evidence, obviously. You’ve investigated so and so. You’re not indicting her or him. You don’t comment negatively. You should, in a case of public notoriety, you should announce we’ve investigated. We’re not indicting him. That’s fine. But you have a policy, which the Justice Department does, that the president cannot be indicted no matter how much evidence just because he’s the president. Therefore we can’t comment on evidence against him or anything else. Then you’re converting a normally good policy into a cover-up, and you’re depriving Congress of its ability to hold the president accountable. You, the Justice Department, won’t hold him accountable because you’ve said you have no right to. You can’t indict him. That leaves only Congress, and now you’re going to deny Congress the right to the information. That makes the president unaccountable and above the law, and that cannot be. michael barbaro But just to be clear, if Mueller says no crimes, the public still needs to see the evidence regardless, because the rules are different here. representative jerry nadler No, the public needs to see the evidence, number one, so it can be confident that it’s true. We’ve tried to protect Mueller because by all accounts he’s an honest guy, et cetera, et cetera, and the investigation has to proceed. But whatever he says, we can’t take it on faith. We don’t operate that way. We shouldn’t take things on faith. And if he says the president has committed crimes, we should know what the evidence is. If he says the president hasn’t committed crimes, we should know what the evidence is. And if the president hasn’t committed crimes but has done terrible things that he knows about, we should know that too. Or if the president has done nothing wrong, we should know that. The public has a great interest in the president, obviously. michael barbaro So I just want to be very clear on why the case of Comey is different from the case of Mueller in terms of using — representative jerry nadler Essentially because when he announced that he wasn’t indicting Hillary, it was because he thought there wasn’t enough evidence to indict Hillary, the normal reason you don’t indict somebody. If Mueller decides not to indict the president, then the public ought to know that and hear that and see the evidence on which he bases that. michael barbaro So I want to talk to you, Congressman, about the politics of all of this and what the path forward might mean for the Democratic Party, because, as you know, the Republican Party has stood solidly behind the president this entire time. They have not budged at all. If Robert Mueller says at the end of the day that no crimes have been committed by the president, but your committee and others continue to investigate the president, are you concerned that this will inflict even more damage and partisanship on an already pretty divided and highly partisan American public — representative jerry nadler Not if we do it responsibly — michael barbaro — and maybe hurt the Democratic Party in the process? representative jerry nadler Not if we do it responsibly. Congress must hold the executive accountable. And that is with respect to crimes. It’s respect to bad deeds. It’s respect to corruption, et cetera, and it’s respect to policy. We have to provide the accountability, and we have to let the American people know what is being done in their names, and let them judge. michael barbaro But how do you explain to the American people, who are pretty exhausted by all this, why you’re going to keep pursuing an investigation after Mueller — representative jerry nadler Well, it depends what he says and how much he covers, and that will help determine how much we have left to do. And the answer is that we can’t rely on others to do the work for us. We have an obligation to do our own work. That’s why we were elected. And at the end of the day, the American people decide not the week after Mueller releases his report but election day next year whether we have acted responsibly or irresponsibly in a partisan or reasonable way. michael barbaro Well, would you put your belief in the need to pursue the facts over the short-term well-being of the Democratic Party if those two things seem to turn out to be at odds with one another and in conflict? representative jerry nadler I think it’s my constitutional duty to do so. michael barbaro This may sound a little corny, but in this moment, with everyone waiting for what’s next, what message do you want to give to Americans on what we can see as kind of the eve of the Mueller report? representative jerry nadler What message? That, one, we have an administration that has attacked the institutions of government and of liberty on which we depend on in fundamental ways, and we have to rein it in. We have to make sure that the separation of powers is maintained and that liberty and the rule of law is maintained, and that the Mueller report will give us hopefully a lot of information, but that Congress has to do the job we were elected to do. And that the administration has to understand that the American people elected a Congress that wants to hold the administration accountable, and we will do that, and the Mueller report will help us do that to a greater or lesser extent, but it’s fundamentally our job. michael barbaro Congressman, thank you for your time. We really appreciate it. representative jerry nadler You’re welcome. Take care. michael barbaro Cheers. The politics of impeachment are more charged. The president and the White House have repeatedly rejected accusations of wrongdoing, arguing that Mr. Trump is innocent of many accusations and has broad powers in his office to run the government as he chooses. And there have been few cracks among Republican lawmakers, the president’s congressional firewall. In a statement on Monday evening, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, assailed the inquiry as “disgraceful and abusive,” and called it a “fishing expedition.” “The Democrats are not after the truth,” she said. “They are after the president.” Republicans in Congress assert that Democrats have already decided to target Mr. Trump for impeachment, saying repeatedly in recent weeks that despite public statements to the contrary, the new majority is determined to kick Mr. Trump out of office. “We don’t even know what the Mueller report says, but Democrats are already hedging their bets,” said Representative Doug Collins of Georgia, the Judiciary Committee’s top Republican. “After recklessly prejudging the president for obstruction, Chairman Nadler is pursuing evidence to back up his conclusion because, as he admits, ‘We don’t have the facts yet.’” Democrats also widened another front on Monday, as the chairmen of the Foreign Affairs, Intelligence and Oversight committees wrote to the White House and State Department to request detailed documentation related to Mr. Trump’s communications with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia and to reported efforts to conceal aspects of those communications. Committees in both the House and Senate have nibbled around the edges of several of the episodes raised by Mr. Nadler. But his investigation suggests a more coherent, deep investigation that could seek to tie together the scheme to pay off Ms. Daniels; the firing of James B. Comey as F.B.I. director; Mr. Trump’s attempts to remove the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III; the president’s apparent dangling of pardons and threatening of witnesses to the investigation; and other events. From Donald F. McGahn II, the former White House counsel, alone, Mr. Nadler requested all documents related to the resignation of Michael T. Flynn as national security adviser; interactions with and the firing of Mr. Comey; attempts to fire Mr. Mueller; communications with Mr. Trump about Jeff Sessions, the president’s first attorney general; and about open investigations into his presidency, among more than a dozen other topics. Mr. Nadler requested documents from Annie Donaldson, Mr. McGahn’s deputy who took exhaustive notes detailing Mr. Trump’s behavior in the West Wing in real time. Other targets include David J. Pecker, the chairman of American Media Inc., which publishes The National Enquirer and played a key role in suppressing Ms. Daniels’s story; Allen Weisselberg, the chief financial officer of the Trump Organization; Alan Garten, its lawyer; Mr. Sessions; and Thomas J. Barrack Jr., a close associate of Mr. Trump’s who led his inaugural committee. Michael D. Cohen, the president’s former lawyer and longtime fixer, who testified publicly last week before another House committee about the illegal hush money scheme, was sent three pages of requests, including any relevant “audio or video recordings.” Mr. Nadler also asked for information from Jared Kushner, the president’s son-in-law and senior adviser, and his two adult sons, Donald Trump Jr. and Eric Trump. Ivanka Trump, who is married to Mr. Kushner and works in the White House, was not included among the initial requests. The committee said that additional requests for documents would follow in the coming weeks. Lawyers for Mr. Nadler are prepared for protracted negotiations or outright fights over certain requests. If the recipients of the requests do not voluntarily comply, Mr. Nadler will most likely issue subpoenas to compel them. But even if he does, there are practical limitations that could significantly slow his efforts if a witness were to challenge the subpoena in court. The most significant hurdle could come from Mr. Trump himself. The White House could choose to assert executive privilege to try to protect many of the materials central to the committee’s inquiry, including communications between Mr. Trump, Mr. McGahn and other advisers. Such claims are usually the president’s prerogative, but any such claim would almost certainly lead to a lengthy court fight that could delay the inquiry. In a sign of how taxing the inquiry may become, Mr. Nadler has hired two elite white-collar litigators, Norman L. Eisen and Barry H. Berke, to oversee it with his staff. An earlier version of this article misstated the suffix of a former White House counsel. He is Donald F. McGahn II, not III. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.Supported by By Robert Pear WASHINGTON — Denouncing the profit motive in health care, more than 100 House Democrats rallied on Wednesday around a bill to replace most private health insurance with a national single-payer system, “Medicare for all.” The chief sponsor of the bill, Representative Pramila Jayapal, Democrat of Washington, said it would cure “a deep sickness within our for-profit system” of health care. But the bill highlights Democrats’ split over health policy going into the 2020 elections. Supporters of the bill, under which health care would be available to all Americans without premiums, co-payments, deductibles or “similar charges,” did not say how much it would cost or how they would pay for it. They said their proposal could save huge sums by cutting administrative costs and the bill-paying bureaucracy that works for insurance companies and health care providers. And Ms. Jayapal mentioned the possibility of levying “a wealth tax on the wealthiest Americans.” But only two hours after she introduced the bill, leaders of a more centrist group known as the New Democrat Coalition said Congress should initially focus on shoring up the Affordable Care Act, stabilizing insurance marketplaces and holding down prescription drug costs. “We’re going to be very practical,” said Representative Kurt Schrader of Oregon, a chairman of the New Democrats’ health care task force. Another lawmaker in that coalition, which has 101 members, said it might make more sense to allow people to voluntarily “buy into” Medicare or Medicaid. That approach, said the lawmaker, Representative Kim Schrier, Democrat of Washington, “would not cause as many seismic effects” as the shift to a single-payer system. Ms. Jayapal, who is a chairwoman of the Congressional Progressive Caucus, said that Senator Bernie Sanders’s Medicare for all bill had provided a template for hers. But in some ways, she went further, with a faster expansion of Medicare and broader coverage of long-term care. “Instead of giving hundreds of billions of dollars to insurance companies and pharmaceutical companies, and letting them profit off of people’s illness, we are saying that the government will pay,” Ms. Jayapal said. “We will negotiate prices. We will have cost controls. And we will ensure that we are putting patients over profits.” President Trump and other Republicans have derided such proposals as socialism. Ms. Jayapal said she was in good company. “A lot of our previous presidents were called socialist when they proposed Medicare,” she said. In 1961, when he was a Hollywood actor, Ronald Reagan warned that proposals for a program like Medicare could lead to socialism. Health insurance companies, which have reinvented their business models to comply with the Affordable Care Act in the past nine years, blasted Medicare for all as a threat not just to their business. “This bill will hurt patients, consumers and taxpayers,” Kristine Grow, a spokeswoman for America’s Health Insurance Plans, said on Wednesday. “Americans will pay more to wait longer for worse care.” Senator Bill Cassidy, Republican of Louisiana, taunted the Democrats pushing Medicare for all. “I welcome Democrats to the coalition to repeal and replace Obamacare,” Mr. Cassidy said on Twitter. “Only took 9 years!” Under the bill, people who are 18 and younger or 55 and older could enroll in Medicare for all one year after the legislation was enacted. Benefits would be available to other people two years after enactment. In the future, people would be automatically enrolled at birth. Highlights of the new Medicare for all bill show how it would remake health care in America: • It would be unlawful for a private health insurer or an employer to provide the same medical insurance benefits as the new program. • The secretary of health and human services would establish a “national health budget” specifying the total amount to be spent each year, with allocations for each region of the country. There would be separate budgets for operating expenses and capital costs like hospital construction and major equipment purchases. • Doctors practicing on their own would generally be paid on a fee-for-service basis. The health secretary would establish a national fee schedule. • Hospitals, nursing homes and community health centers would receive quarterly lump-sum payments from the federal government for the services they provide. • The government would specify “optimal staffing levels for physicians” and could set standards for the ratio of registered nurses to patients at hospitals and nursing homes. • The federal law known as the Hyde Amendment, which restricts the use of federal funds for abortions, would not apply to the new program of national health insurance. • The health secretary would directly negotiate drug prices with manufacturers. If they could not agree on the price for a particular drug, the government could issue a license authorizing another company to produce it. • For up to five years, the federal government could provide financial assistance to workers in the health insurance and health care industries who lose their jobs or experience other “economic dislocation” as a result of Medicare for all. The bill was endorsed by liberal advocacy groups like Physicians for a National Health Program, Social Security Works and Public Citizen, as well as by labor unions, including National Nurses United, the American Federation of Teachers and the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers.

Supported by By Robert Pear WASHINGTON — Denouncing the profit motive in health care, more than 100 House Democrats rallied on Wednesday around a bill to replace most private health insurance with a national single-payer system, “Medicare for all.” The chief sponsor of the bill, Representative Pramila Jayapal, Democrat of Washington, said it would cure “a deep sickness within our for-profit system” of health care. But the bill highlights Democrats’ split over health policy going into the 2020 elections. Supporters of the bill, under which health care would be available to all Americans without premiums, co-payments, deductibles or “similar charges,” did not say how much it would cost or how they would pay for it. They said their proposal could save huge sums by cutting administrative costs and the bill-paying bureaucracy that works for insurance companies and health care providers. And Ms. Jayapal mentioned the possibility of levying “a wealth tax on the wealthiest Americans.” But only two hours after she introduced the bill, leaders of a more centrist group known as the New Democrat Coalition said Congress should initially focus on shoring up the Affordable Care Act, stabilizing insurance marketplaces and holding down prescription drug costs. “We’re going to be very practical,” said Representative Kurt Schrader of Oregon, a chairman of the New Democrats’ health care task force. Another lawmaker in that coalition, which has 101 members, said it might make more sense to allow people to voluntarily “buy into” Medicare or Medicaid. That approach, said the lawmaker, Representative Kim Schrier, Democrat of Washington, “would not cause as many seismic effects” as the shift to a single-payer system. Ms. Jayapal, who is a chairwoman of the Congressional Progressive Caucus, said that Senator Bernie Sanders’s Medicare for all bill had provided a template for hers. But in some ways, she went further, with a faster expansion of Medicare and broader coverage of long-term care. “Instead of giving hundreds of billions of dollars to insurance companies and pharmaceutical companies, and letting them profit off of people’s illness, we are saying that the government will pay,” Ms. Jayapal said. “We will negotiate prices. We will have cost controls. And we will ensure that we are putting patients over profits.” President Trump and other Republicans have derided such proposals as socialism. Ms. Jayapal said she was in good company. “A lot of our previous presidents were called socialist when they proposed Medicare,” she said. In 1961, when he was a Hollywood actor, Ronald Reagan warned that proposals for a program like Medicare could lead to socialism. Health insurance companies, which have reinvented their business models to comply with the Affordable Care Act in the past nine years, blasted Medicare for all as a threat not just to their business. “This bill will hurt patients, consumers and taxpayers,” Kristine Grow, a spokeswoman for America’s Health Insurance Plans, said on Wednesday. “Americans will pay more to wait longer for worse care.” Senator Bill Cassidy, Republican of Louisiana, taunted the Democrats pushing Medicare for all. “I welcome Democrats to the coalition to repeal and replace Obamacare,” Mr. Cassidy said on Twitter. “Only took 9 years!” Under the bill, people who are 18 and younger or 55 and older could enroll in Medicare for all one year after the legislation was enacted. Benefits would be available to other people two years after enactment. In the future, people would be automatically enrolled at birth. Highlights of the new Medicare for all bill show how it would remake health care in America: • It would be unlawful for a private health insurer or an employer to provide the same medical insurance benefits as the new program. • The secretary of health and human services would establish a “national health budget” specifying the total amount to be spent each year, with allocations for each region of the country. There would be separate budgets for operating expenses and capital costs like hospital construction and major equipment purchases. • Doctors practicing on their own would generally be paid on a fee-for-service basis. The health secretary would establish a national fee schedule. • Hospitals, nursing homes and community health centers would receive quarterly lump-sum payments from the federal government for the services they provide. • The government would specify “optimal staffing levels for physicians” and could set standards for the ratio of registered nurses to patients at hospitals and nursing homes. • The federal law known as the Hyde Amendment, which restricts the use of federal funds for abortions, would not apply to the new program of national health insurance. • The health secretary would directly negotiate drug prices with manufacturers. If they could not agree on the price for a particular drug, the government could issue a license authorizing another company to produce it. • For up to five years, the federal government could provide financial assistance to workers in the health insurance and health care industries who lose their jobs or experience other “economic dislocation” as a result of Medicare for all. The bill was endorsed by liberal advocacy groups like Physicians for a National Health Program, Social Security Works and Public Citizen, as well as by labor unions, including National Nurses United, the American Federation of Teachers and the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers.Supported by By Maggie Astor You don’t often see this in Washington: some of the most liberal candidates in the 2020 presidential field lining up with President Trump on foreign policy. Every declared presidential candidate in the Senate, and three other senators who are considering running, voted on Tuesday against a bill that, among other things, condemns Mr. Trump’s decision to withdraw American troops from Afghanistan and Syria. (You can read more about the legislation here.) The senators in question are: • Cory Booker, Kirsten Gillibrand, Kamala Harris and Elizabeth Warren, all declared candidates. • Sherrod Brown, Jeff Merkley and Bernie Sanders, who are eyeing the race. Senator Amy Klobuchar, another Democrat who is widely expected to run for president, voted for the bill, as did Senator Michael Bennet, who is considering a run. The measure passed the Senate, 77 to 23, and now goes to the House. The bill has several parts, some controversial and some not, and the senators voting no were not necessarily doing so solely because of troop withdrawals. Mr. Brown, for instance, said he was concerned about the constitutionality of the bill’s other contentious provision, which would let state and local governments punish companies that boycott Israeli products. For almost 15 years, since the Iraq war became an unpopular drag on President George W. Bush, Democrats have generally opposed extended military interventions in other nations. So it’s not surprising that most of the 2020 candidates would want to bring troops home from Afghanistan and Syria sooner rather than later. The twist is that this is a rare issue on which, ideologically, Mr. Trump is more aligned with Democrats than Republicans — which creates an awkward political situation for the Democrats, who would not normally decline an opportunity to rebuke Mr. Trump. But even under previous presidents, foreign policy has split Democrats, often painfully. John Kerry famously had to walk that tightrope as the party’s presidential nominee in 2004, when an increasingly antiwar electorate denounced his previous support for the Iraq war. At one point, he said of a supplemental appropriation for the war, “I actually did vote for the $87 billion before I voted against it,” a line that allowed opponents to brand him as a “flip-flopper” and haunted him for the rest of the campaign. Tuesday’s vote underscored how politically fraught issues of military force and funding still are, especially as the liberal wing of the Democratic Party gains strength. The bill now goes to the House, where the new Democratic majority is likely to pass only routine provisions such as renewed military aid for Israel and Jordan. Democrats are hardly eager to advance the troop withdrawal or anti-boycott provisions, both of which have exposed fissures within the party — and which Representative Hakeem Jeffries of New York, a member of the Democratic leadership, has called a “political stunt” by Republicans. Even if the full bill were to pass the House, the troop withdrawal provision is nonbinding. It simply expresses Congress’s disapproval of Mr. Trump’s plans, and the president would then have to decide whether to buck his own party and bring troops home anyway. Catie Edmondson contributed reporting.    

Supported by By Maggie Astor You don’t often see this in Washington: some of the most liberal candidates in the 2020 presidential field lining up with President Trump on foreign policy. Every declared presidential candidate in the Senate, and three other senators who are considering running, voted on Tuesday against a bill that, among other things, condemns Mr. Trump’s decision to withdraw American troops from Afghanistan and Syria. (You can read more about the legislation here.) The senators in question are: • Cory Booker, Kirsten Gillibrand, Kamala Harris and Elizabeth Warren, all declared candidates. • Sherrod Brown, Jeff Merkley and Bernie Sanders, who are eyeing the race. Senator Amy Klobuchar, another Democrat who is widely expected to run for president, voted for the bill, as did Senator Michael Bennet, who is considering a run. The measure passed the Senate, 77 to 23, and now goes to the House. The bill has several parts, some controversial and some not, and the senators voting no were not necessarily doing so solely because of troop withdrawals. Mr. Brown, for instance, said he was concerned about the constitutionality of the bill’s other contentious provision, which would let state and local governments punish companies that boycott Israeli products. For almost 15 years, since the Iraq war became an unpopular drag on President George W. Bush, Democrats have generally opposed extended military interventions in other nations. So it’s not surprising that most of the 2020 candidates would want to bring troops home from Afghanistan and Syria sooner rather than later. The twist is that this is a rare issue on which, ideologically, Mr. Trump is more aligned with Democrats than Republicans — which creates an awkward political situation for the Democrats, who would not normally decline an opportunity to rebuke Mr. Trump. But even under previous presidents, foreign policy has split Democrats, often painfully. John Kerry famously had to walk that tightrope as the party’s presidential nominee in 2004, when an increasingly antiwar electorate denounced his previous support for the Iraq war. At one point, he said of a supplemental appropriation for the war, “I actually did vote for the $87 billion before I voted against it,” a line that allowed opponents to brand him as a “flip-flopper” and haunted him for the rest of the campaign. Tuesday’s vote underscored how politically fraught issues of military force and funding still are, especially as the liberal wing of the Democratic Party gains strength. The bill now goes to the House, where the new Democratic majority is likely to pass only routine provisions such as renewed military aid for Israel and Jordan. Democrats are hardly eager to advance the troop withdrawal or anti-boycott provisions, both of which have exposed fissures within the party — and which Representative Hakeem Jeffries of New York, a member of the Democratic leadership, has called a “political stunt” by Republicans. Even if the full bill were to pass the House, the troop withdrawal provision is nonbinding. It simply expresses Congress’s disapproval of Mr. Trump’s plans, and the president would then have to decide whether to buck his own party and bring troops home anyway. Catie Edmondson contributed reporting.    Supported by By Michael Tackett and Catie Edmondson WASHINGTON — President Trump’s evolving definition of a border wall animated negotiations to end a partial government shutdown on Sunday, while House Democrats moved to increase pressure on the president by vowing to pass individual bills to reopen targeted departments that handle critical functions like tax refunds and food stamps. “I informed my folks to say that we’ll build a steel barrier,” Mr. Trump told reporters after returning to the White House from a senior staff meeting at Camp David. He added of the Democrats, “They don’t like concrete, so we’ll give them steel.” The president characterized the second day of talks between Vice President Mike Pence and Democratic congressional aides as “productive” after saying earlier in the day that he did not anticipate much progress. But Mr. Trump also said that, if no deal could be reached over his demand for $5.7 billion for the border wall, he was still considering using “emergency” authority to build the barrier with other government funds. For their part, Democrats said there was no progress as the shutdown entered its 16th day, and asked again that the government be reopened before negotiations on border security money begin. A day before, they had asked the administration for a detailed plan of how such money would be used, and the Office of Management and Budget responded with a letter on Sunday evening reiterating the president’s request for $5.7 billion for the construction of “a steel barrier” along the southern border. Democrats have rebuffed that figure. Here’s how much the proposed border deal would add to existing barriers. But the letter also provided a fuller picture of Mr. Trump’s border demands. In a small gesture to Democrats, it said the president wanted $800 million “to address urgent humanitarian needs,” including enhanced medical treatment. It also asked for funds to support 52,000 detention beds and 2,000 more law enforcement agents. The shutdown, which is threatening to become the longest in American history, is affecting about 800,000 federal workers, many of whom will soon miss their first paycheck, and has curtailed the functions of numerous government agencies. The impasse has also added another crisis to Mr. Trump’s turbulent presidency as he adjusts to working in an era in which he must now share power with Democrats. The party’s leaders gave little indication that they would come to terms with the president if he simply changed the materials used to construct the wall. Mr. Trump has been talking at least since mid-December about building a wall made up of “artistically designed steel slats” instead of concrete, but he seized on the idea on Sunday to a new degree. “There’s no requirement that this government be shut down while we deliberate the future of any barrier, whether it’s a fence or a wall,” Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, said on CBS’s “Face the Nation.” But Mick Mulvaney, the acting White House chief of staff, said that while he thought the shutdown was “going to drag on a lot longer,” Mr. Trump’s shift in wall materials could provide a semantic opening to advance the talks. “If he has to give up a concrete wall, replace it with a steel fence in order to do that so that Democrats can say, ‘See? He’s not building a wall anymore,’ that should help us move in the right direction,” Mr. Mulvaney said on NBC’s “Meet the Press.” “If that’s not evidence of the president’s desire to try and resolve this, I don’t know what is.” While Mr. Trump had expressed little hope for the talks on Sunday, he indicated that the coming days would offer a chance to show that resolve. “I think we’re going to have some very serious talks come Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday,” he said. Democrats believe they have a plan to bring new leverage to the negotiations. Speaker Nancy Pelosi said the House would begin considering individual appropriations bills this week that would reopen the government, starting with legislation that would return workers to the Treasury Department, including the Internal Revenue Service, followed by measures to open the Departments of Agriculture, Housing and Urban Development, and the Interior. Representative Steny H. Hoyer, Democrat of Maryland and the majority leader, said on “Meet the Press”: “We’ll do it bill by bill so we can help taxpayers, we can help people who need food assistance, we can help people who need housing vouchers, people who need flood insurance. ” Those bills have little chance in the Senate, where Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader, has held fast to his pledge that he would not put any legislation on the floor that the president would not approve. Congressional Republicans employed a bill-by-bill strategy of their own in 2015 on the brink of a government shutdown over funding for Planned Parenthood, only to have Democrats block all 12 spending bills approved by the Appropriations Committee. The president said last week that he opposed that approach, and Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, said last month that the president would need to publicly support any funding measures before they were considered, adding that “we can’t have another situation when the president signals support at first but then reverses himself.” Mr. Trump did just that in December after the Senate passed bills to avert the shutdown. Senator Chris Van Hollen of Maryland, whose state has one of the highest concentrations of federal workers, has suggested that Democrats block the consideration of all bills unrelated to opening the government until Senate Republicans allow a vote on the House bills. There may be added pressure on Mr. McConnell from his own ranks. Three Senate Republicans — Susan Collins of Maine, Cory Gardner of Colorado and Thom Tillis of North Carolina — have called for reopening the government. Two other Republican senators who have been critical of the shutdown, Lamar Alexander of Tennessee and Pat Roberts of Kansas, have announced that they will not seek re-election in 2020, so they would not face the electoral consequences of incurring Mr. Trump’s wrath. However, some other lawmakers, like Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, who is continuing to advocate a deal in which Mr. Trump would get his wall funding and Democrats would get new protections for the young immigrants known as Dreamers, view the shutdown with less urgency. “I do want to open the government, but the goal is not to open the government. The goal is to fix a broken immigration system,” Mr. Graham said. He added later, “It was pretty clear to me that we’re never going to have a deal unless we get a wall as part of it.” Ms. Pelosi, in her first sit-down interview on network television since reclaiming the speaker’s gavel last week, blasted Mr. Trump for suggesting that he may unilaterally move to build the border wall. “The impression you get from the president is that he would like to not only close government, build a wall, but also abolish Congress so the only voice that mattered was his own,” Ms. Pelosi told Jane Pauley in the interview, which aired on CBS News’s “Sunday Morning.” Representative Adam Smith, Democrat of Washington and the new chairman of the Armed Services Committee, said Mr. Trump did have the power to declare a national emergency to build the wall. “Unfortunately, the short answer is yes,” he said on ABC’s “This Week.” But he said the president would face a court challenge asking “Where is the emergency?” Follow Michael Tackett and Catie Edmondson on Twitter: @tackettdc and @catieedmondson.

Supported by By Michael Tackett and Catie Edmondson WASHINGTON — President Trump’s evolving definition of a border wall animated negotiations to end a partial government shutdown on Sunday, while House Democrats moved to increase pressure on the president by vowing to pass individual bills to reopen targeted departments that handle critical functions like tax refunds and food stamps. “I informed my folks to say that we’ll build a steel barrier,” Mr. Trump told reporters after returning to the White House from a senior staff meeting at Camp David. He added of the Democrats, “They don’t like concrete, so we’ll give them steel.” The president characterized the second day of talks between Vice President Mike Pence and Democratic congressional aides as “productive” after saying earlier in the day that he did not anticipate much progress. But Mr. Trump also said that, if no deal could be reached over his demand for $5.7 billion for the border wall, he was still considering using “emergency” authority to build the barrier with other government funds. For their part, Democrats said there was no progress as the shutdown entered its 16th day, and asked again that the government be reopened before negotiations on border security money begin. A day before, they had asked the administration for a detailed plan of how such money would be used, and the Office of Management and Budget responded with a letter on Sunday evening reiterating the president’s request for $5.7 billion for the construction of “a steel barrier” along the southern border. Democrats have rebuffed that figure. Here’s how much the proposed border deal would add to existing barriers. But the letter also provided a fuller picture of Mr. Trump’s border demands. In a small gesture to Democrats, it said the president wanted $800 million “to address urgent humanitarian needs,” including enhanced medical treatment. It also asked for funds to support 52,000 detention beds and 2,000 more law enforcement agents. The shutdown, which is threatening to become the longest in American history, is affecting about 800,000 federal workers, many of whom will soon miss their first paycheck, and has curtailed the functions of numerous government agencies. The impasse has also added another crisis to Mr. Trump’s turbulent presidency as he adjusts to working in an era in which he must now share power with Democrats. The party’s leaders gave little indication that they would come to terms with the president if he simply changed the materials used to construct the wall. Mr. Trump has been talking at least since mid-December about building a wall made up of “artistically designed steel slats” instead of concrete, but he seized on the idea on Sunday to a new degree. “There’s no requirement that this government be shut down while we deliberate the future of any barrier, whether it’s a fence or a wall,” Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, said on CBS’s “Face the Nation.” But Mick Mulvaney, the acting White House chief of staff, said that while he thought the shutdown was “going to drag on a lot longer,” Mr. Trump’s shift in wall materials could provide a semantic opening to advance the talks. “If he has to give up a concrete wall, replace it with a steel fence in order to do that so that Democrats can say, ‘See? He’s not building a wall anymore,’ that should help us move in the right direction,” Mr. Mulvaney said on NBC’s “Meet the Press.” “If that’s not evidence of the president’s desire to try and resolve this, I don’t know what is.” While Mr. Trump had expressed little hope for the talks on Sunday, he indicated that the coming days would offer a chance to show that resolve. “I think we’re going to have some very serious talks come Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday,” he said. Democrats believe they have a plan to bring new leverage to the negotiations. Speaker Nancy Pelosi said the House would begin considering individual appropriations bills this week that would reopen the government, starting with legislation that would return workers to the Treasury Department, including the Internal Revenue Service, followed by measures to open the Departments of Agriculture, Housing and Urban Development, and the Interior. Representative Steny H. Hoyer, Democrat of Maryland and the majority leader, said on “Meet the Press”: “We’ll do it bill by bill so we can help taxpayers, we can help people who need food assistance, we can help people who need housing vouchers, people who need flood insurance. ” Those bills have little chance in the Senate, where Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader, has held fast to his pledge that he would not put any legislation on the floor that the president would not approve. Congressional Republicans employed a bill-by-bill strategy of their own in 2015 on the brink of a government shutdown over funding for Planned Parenthood, only to have Democrats block all 12 spending bills approved by the Appropriations Committee. The president said last week that he opposed that approach, and Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, said last month that the president would need to publicly support any funding measures before they were considered, adding that “we can’t have another situation when the president signals support at first but then reverses himself.” Mr. Trump did just that in December after the Senate passed bills to avert the shutdown. Senator Chris Van Hollen of Maryland, whose state has one of the highest concentrations of federal workers, has suggested that Democrats block the consideration of all bills unrelated to opening the government until Senate Republicans allow a vote on the House bills. There may be added pressure on Mr. McConnell from his own ranks. Three Senate Republicans — Susan Collins of Maine, Cory Gardner of Colorado and Thom Tillis of North Carolina — have called for reopening the government. Two other Republican senators who have been critical of the shutdown, Lamar Alexander of Tennessee and Pat Roberts of Kansas, have announced that they will not seek re-election in 2020, so they would not face the electoral consequences of incurring Mr. Trump’s wrath. However, some other lawmakers, like Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, who is continuing to advocate a deal in which Mr. Trump would get his wall funding and Democrats would get new protections for the young immigrants known as Dreamers, view the shutdown with less urgency. “I do want to open the government, but the goal is not to open the government. The goal is to fix a broken immigration system,” Mr. Graham said. He added later, “It was pretty clear to me that we’re never going to have a deal unless we get a wall as part of it.” Ms. Pelosi, in her first sit-down interview on network television since reclaiming the speaker’s gavel last week, blasted Mr. Trump for suggesting that he may unilaterally move to build the border wall. “The impression you get from the president is that he would like to not only close government, build a wall, but also abolish Congress so the only voice that mattered was his own,” Ms. Pelosi told Jane Pauley in the interview, which aired on CBS News’s “Sunday Morning.” Representative Adam Smith, Democrat of Washington and the new chairman of the Armed Services Committee, said Mr. Trump did have the power to declare a national emergency to build the wall. “Unfortunately, the short answer is yes,” he said on ABC’s “This Week.” But he said the president would face a court challenge asking “Where is the emergency?” Follow Michael Tackett and Catie Edmondson on Twitter: @tackettdc and @catieedmondson.Supported by By Trip Gabriel People in Colorado still remember John Hickenlooper’s crack after the state legalized marijuana, a move he opposed: “Don’t break out the Cheetos or Goldfish too quickly.” But Mr. Hickenlooper, the governor at the time of the 2012 initiative allowing recreational use of cannabis, eventually changed his mind. He acknowledged that fears of increased use by children did not materialize, and he boasted of the tax revenues for social programs that regulated sales delivered. Entering the Democratic presidential race this month, Mr. Hickenlooper joined a field already jammed with pro-legalization candidates, a reflection of swiftly changing public opinion since Colorado became one of the first of 10 states with legal recreational marijuana. The issue today is a pillar of progressive politics, but not because of graying hippies who like their Rocky Mountain High. Rather, for many Democrats, legalization has become a litmus test for candidates’ commitment to equal treatment for all races in policing and criminal justice as well as fighting economic inequality. [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join our conversation about the 2020 presidential race.] “A Democrat who is not on board with legalization or addressing it in terms of repairing harms brought by prohibition for decades is going to have a tough time convincing any voter they’re serious about racial justice,” said Vincent M. Southerland, executive director of the Center on Race, Inequality and the Law at New York University Law School. Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey last month introduced the pointedly named Marijuana Justice Act, which would remove the drug from the federal list of controlled substances and expunge past convictions. Supporters note that African-Americans are almost four times more likely to be arrested for marijuana possession than whites, even though rates of use are similar. “It’s not enough to legalize marijuana at the federal level — we should also help those who have suffered due to its prohibition,” Mr. Booker said in a tweet.  Other 2020 candidates in the Senate quickly signed on as sponsors, including Kirsten Gillibrand, Bernie Sanders, Elizabeth Warren and Kamala Harris. [Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.] Beto O’Rourke, who often hedges when asked about contentious policy issues, has endorsed the federal legalization of marijuana unequivocally. Asked about it Thursday — at his first event as a presidential candidate, in Keokuk, Iowa — Mr. O’Rourke framed his position as a matter of practicality and racial justice, given that people of color are imprisoned at disproportionate rates for drug offenses. “I say this as the father of a middle school student, where middle schools are one of the fastest growing markets for marijuana sales today,” he told a coffeehouse crowd. “In the black market, they do not ID — they do not care — as long as they can make that sale.” The 2020 Democratic hopeful who may be most vulnerable on marijuana policy is former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., who in the 1980s and 90s was a leader in the “war on drugs.’’ He championed laws that set tough mandatory minimum sentences for drug offenses, including possessing large amounts of marijuana. This led to an era of mass incarceration, with a lasting economic and social toll for minorities. “In 1994 Biden had a fairly mainstream position, but in 2020 that position is so far from the mainstream of Democratic politics that it is almost offensive,” said John Hudak, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution who focuses on state and federal marijuana policy. He called Mr. Biden’s history on criminal justice issues “his biggest liability in the 2020 primary.” Mr. Biden has apologized for parts of his record, calling a law from the 1980s requiring harsher penalties for crack cocaine than powder cocaine — the former was more popular with African-Americans and the latter with whites — “a big mistake.” Spokesmen for Mr. Biden, who has told aides he is 95 percent committed to getting into the presidential race, did not respond to requests for comment. Two Democratic senators opposed to legalizing marijuana at the federal level — Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota, who entered the race last month, and Sherrod Brown of Ohio, who opted out of running this month — represent battleground states in the Midwest, whose politics are less progressive than the coastal states that led the way to legalizing cannabis for adults. Ms. Klobuchar, who hopes to appeal to moderate voters, has said she supports the right of states to decide individually about legalization, rather than the approach of Mr. Booker, Mr. O’Rourke and others who want to shift policy at the national level. In 2015, Ohio voters overwhelmingly defeated a referendum to legalize recreational marijuana. Mr. Brown told an Ohio TV station last year that the jury was out on the experience of states that had legalized the drug, including whether it was a “gateway” to harder drugs. Midwestern states have been devastated by opioid overdoses. Marijuana has been shown to lead in some cases to increased alcohol abuse, but the majority of users do not progress to harder drugs, according to the National Institute on Drug Abuse. A study last year in the journal JAMA Internal Medicine found that after states legalized marijuana for medical use, prescriptions for opioids dropped nearly 15 percent. Polling, which has found a rapid increase in support for legal recreational marijuana since 2000, including majorities in both parties, shows little regional variation. Support in the Midwest and South is about equal to the coasts. Legalization is most popular with young adults under 35, with nearly four out of five in favor — catnip to Democrats seeking to rally millennial voters, whose disapproval of Mr. Trump is higher than any other age group. Experts said opposition is concentrated among social conservatives. The racial demographics of support have also shifted from a time when whites favored adult recreational use and minority groups opposed it, said Jonathan P. Caulkins, a professor at Carnegie Mellon University, who has tracked marijuana policy for more than a decade. “Over the last 15 to 20 years, African-Americans have switched to favor legalization,” he said. Ms. Harris, a former attorney general of California, who is black, exemplified the change. In 2014, she said it would be irresponsible for her as the state’s “top cop” to support California’s legalization of recreational cannabis, which passed in a referendum two years later. By 2017, Ms. Harris declared the war on drugs a failure and called it “a war on poor communities more than anything.” In an interview last month, when pressed on whether she was anti-marijuana, she said she had smoked it in college. “Half my family’s from Jamaica,’’ she joked. “Are you kidding me?” (Her Jamaica-born father, Donald J. Harris, was not amused and called this a “fraudulent stereotype.”) In last year’s midterm elections, Michigan voters made the state the first in the Midwest to legalize recreational marijuana. Meanwhile, Missouri, Oklahoma and Utah overwhelmingly approved medical marijuana, adding to a total of 33 states and the District of Columbia to do so. Democratic gains in state government are pushing several toward legalization this year, including New York and New Jersey. Mr. Trump has been inconsistent on the issue, saying that legalization “should be up to the states, absolutely” during the 2016 campaign, but appointing Jeff Sessions as attorney general, who cleared the way to crack down on states that had legalized the drug. Last year, Mr. Trump signaled support for a bipartisan bill introduced by Senators Cory Gardner, Republican of Colorado, and Ms. Warren to shield state-licensed cannabis businesses from federal prosecution. The bill highlights that marijuana is not strictly a left-right issue, as does Mr. Biden’s history of supporting the drug crackdown. Whether primary voters penalize Mr. Biden over his past remains an open question. A recent poll of likely Democratic primary voters in New Hampshire by the Democratic firm Change Research seemed to suggest he may be putting the issue behind him. It found that even among those who called marijuana legalization their No. 1 priority, Mr. Biden was still the second-most popular candidate, after Mr. Sanders. An earlier version of this article misstated the aim of Senator Cory Booker’s Marijuana Justice Act. It would remove marijuana from the federal list of controlled substances; it would not legalize the drug nationwide. Matt Flegenheimer contributed reporting from Keokuk, Iowa.   

Supported by By Trip Gabriel People in Colorado still remember John Hickenlooper’s crack after the state legalized marijuana, a move he opposed: “Don’t break out the Cheetos or Goldfish too quickly.” But Mr. Hickenlooper, the governor at the time of the 2012 initiative allowing recreational use of cannabis, eventually changed his mind. He acknowledged that fears of increased use by children did not materialize, and he boasted of the tax revenues for social programs that regulated sales delivered. Entering the Democratic presidential race this month, Mr. Hickenlooper joined a field already jammed with pro-legalization candidates, a reflection of swiftly changing public opinion since Colorado became one of the first of 10 states with legal recreational marijuana. The issue today is a pillar of progressive politics, but not because of graying hippies who like their Rocky Mountain High. Rather, for many Democrats, legalization has become a litmus test for candidates’ commitment to equal treatment for all races in policing and criminal justice as well as fighting economic inequality. [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join our conversation about the 2020 presidential race.] “A Democrat who is not on board with legalization or addressing it in terms of repairing harms brought by prohibition for decades is going to have a tough time convincing any voter they’re serious about racial justice,” said Vincent M. Southerland, executive director of the Center on Race, Inequality and the Law at New York University Law School. Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey last month introduced the pointedly named Marijuana Justice Act, which would remove the drug from the federal list of controlled substances and expunge past convictions. Supporters note that African-Americans are almost four times more likely to be arrested for marijuana possession than whites, even though rates of use are similar. “It’s not enough to legalize marijuana at the federal level — we should also help those who have suffered due to its prohibition,” Mr. Booker said in a tweet.  Other 2020 candidates in the Senate quickly signed on as sponsors, including Kirsten Gillibrand, Bernie Sanders, Elizabeth Warren and Kamala Harris. [Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.] Beto O’Rourke, who often hedges when asked about contentious policy issues, has endorsed the federal legalization of marijuana unequivocally. Asked about it Thursday — at his first event as a presidential candidate, in Keokuk, Iowa — Mr. O’Rourke framed his position as a matter of practicality and racial justice, given that people of color are imprisoned at disproportionate rates for drug offenses. “I say this as the father of a middle school student, where middle schools are one of the fastest growing markets for marijuana sales today,” he told a coffeehouse crowd. “In the black market, they do not ID — they do not care — as long as they can make that sale.” The 2020 Democratic hopeful who may be most vulnerable on marijuana policy is former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., who in the 1980s and 90s was a leader in the “war on drugs.’’ He championed laws that set tough mandatory minimum sentences for drug offenses, including possessing large amounts of marijuana. This led to an era of mass incarceration, with a lasting economic and social toll for minorities. “In 1994 Biden had a fairly mainstream position, but in 2020 that position is so far from the mainstream of Democratic politics that it is almost offensive,” said John Hudak, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution who focuses on state and federal marijuana policy. He called Mr. Biden’s history on criminal justice issues “his biggest liability in the 2020 primary.” Mr. Biden has apologized for parts of his record, calling a law from the 1980s requiring harsher penalties for crack cocaine than powder cocaine — the former was more popular with African-Americans and the latter with whites — “a big mistake.” Spokesmen for Mr. Biden, who has told aides he is 95 percent committed to getting into the presidential race, did not respond to requests for comment. Two Democratic senators opposed to legalizing marijuana at the federal level — Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota, who entered the race last month, and Sherrod Brown of Ohio, who opted out of running this month — represent battleground states in the Midwest, whose politics are less progressive than the coastal states that led the way to legalizing cannabis for adults. Ms. Klobuchar, who hopes to appeal to moderate voters, has said she supports the right of states to decide individually about legalization, rather than the approach of Mr. Booker, Mr. O’Rourke and others who want to shift policy at the national level. In 2015, Ohio voters overwhelmingly defeated a referendum to legalize recreational marijuana. Mr. Brown told an Ohio TV station last year that the jury was out on the experience of states that had legalized the drug, including whether it was a “gateway” to harder drugs. Midwestern states have been devastated by opioid overdoses. Marijuana has been shown to lead in some cases to increased alcohol abuse, but the majority of users do not progress to harder drugs, according to the National Institute on Drug Abuse. A study last year in the journal JAMA Internal Medicine found that after states legalized marijuana for medical use, prescriptions for opioids dropped nearly 15 percent. Polling, which has found a rapid increase in support for legal recreational marijuana since 2000, including majorities in both parties, shows little regional variation. Support in the Midwest and South is about equal to the coasts. Legalization is most popular with young adults under 35, with nearly four out of five in favor — catnip to Democrats seeking to rally millennial voters, whose disapproval of Mr. Trump is higher than any other age group. Experts said opposition is concentrated among social conservatives. The racial demographics of support have also shifted from a time when whites favored adult recreational use and minority groups opposed it, said Jonathan P. Caulkins, a professor at Carnegie Mellon University, who has tracked marijuana policy for more than a decade. “Over the last 15 to 20 years, African-Americans have switched to favor legalization,” he said. Ms. Harris, a former attorney general of California, who is black, exemplified the change. In 2014, she said it would be irresponsible for her as the state’s “top cop” to support California’s legalization of recreational cannabis, which passed in a referendum two years later. By 2017, Ms. Harris declared the war on drugs a failure and called it “a war on poor communities more than anything.” In an interview last month, when pressed on whether she was anti-marijuana, she said she had smoked it in college. “Half my family’s from Jamaica,’’ she joked. “Are you kidding me?” (Her Jamaica-born father, Donald J. Harris, was not amused and called this a “fraudulent stereotype.”) In last year’s midterm elections, Michigan voters made the state the first in the Midwest to legalize recreational marijuana. Meanwhile, Missouri, Oklahoma and Utah overwhelmingly approved medical marijuana, adding to a total of 33 states and the District of Columbia to do so. Democratic gains in state government are pushing several toward legalization this year, including New York and New Jersey. Mr. Trump has been inconsistent on the issue, saying that legalization “should be up to the states, absolutely” during the 2016 campaign, but appointing Jeff Sessions as attorney general, who cleared the way to crack down on states that had legalized the drug. Last year, Mr. Trump signaled support for a bipartisan bill introduced by Senators Cory Gardner, Republican of Colorado, and Ms. Warren to shield state-licensed cannabis businesses from federal prosecution. The bill highlights that marijuana is not strictly a left-right issue, as does Mr. Biden’s history of supporting the drug crackdown. Whether primary voters penalize Mr. Biden over his past remains an open question. A recent poll of likely Democratic primary voters in New Hampshire by the Democratic firm Change Research seemed to suggest he may be putting the issue behind him. It found that even among those who called marijuana legalization their No. 1 priority, Mr. Biden was still the second-most popular candidate, after Mr. Sanders. An earlier version of this article misstated the aim of Senator Cory Booker’s Marijuana Justice Act. It would remove marijuana from the federal list of controlled substances; it would not legalize the drug nationwide. Matt Flegenheimer contributed reporting from Keokuk, Iowa.   Supported by By Astead W. Herndon From the very first day of the 2020 presidential race, when Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts blamed “generations of discrimination” for black families earning far less than white households, Democratic hopefuls have broadly emphasized racial justice and closing the wealth gap in their policy platforms. But in recent weeks, some candidates have started embracing specific goals and overtly race-conscious legislation that even the most left-wing elected officials stayed away from in recent years. Last week, on the popular radio show “The Breakfast Club,” Senator Kamala Harris of California agreed with a host’s suggestion that government reparations for black Americans were necessary to address the legacies of slavery and discrimination. Ms. Harris later affirmed that support in a statement to The New York Times. “We have to be honest that people in this country do not start from the same place or have access to the same opportunities,” she said. “I’m serious about taking an approach that would change policies and structures and make real investments in black communities.” Ms. Warren also said she supported reparations for black Americans impacted by slavery — a policy that experts say could cost several trillion dollars, and one that Barack Obama, Hillary Clinton, Bernie Sanders and many top Democrats have not supported. The Warren campaign declined to give further details on that backing, but it came amid her calls for the federal government to provide special home-buying assistance to residents of communities that were adversely affected by “redlining,” the discriminatory practice of denying mortgages, usually in poor and nonwhite areas. She also announced a sweeping universal child-care proposal that could strongly benefit minority communities that often have limited early childhood services. The morally driven policy goals of Ms. Harris and Ms. Warren reflect a broader shift in the importance of race and identity issues in the Democratic Party, according to several scholars and political leaders who focus on the intersection of race and politics. While Democrats have long cast themselves as more inclusive than the Republican Party, grass-roots organizers and many liberal voters of all races are now pushing elected officials to go further on policies of racial equality, regardless of any political calculations. But race-conscious policies could emerge as a fissure in a wide-open Democratic primary, as some moderate candidates seek to run against the party’s recent leftward lurch. There are also political risks for the general election: Republicans have long attempted to paint Democrats who embrace policies that address racial inequalities as anti-white, and polling often shows reparations for black Americans remains an unpopular policy across the country. That two leading Democratic candidates have embraced reparations — the concept that the federal government should both acknowledge the ongoing legacy of slavery and discrimination and provide compensatory payment to those affected — is a major shift from past presidential campaigns and a win for activists who have tried to push the issue into the mainstream for decades. Julián Castro, the former cabinet secretary who is also running for president, has also indicated that he would support reparations. Even among the 2020 Democrats who stopped short of endorsing reparations, several have laid out robust policies aimed at closing the gap in wealth between black and white families. Scholars estimate that black families in America today earn just $57.30 for every $100 in income earned by white families, according to the Census Bureau’s Current Population Survey. For every $100 in white family wealth, black families hold just $5.04. Senator Cory Booker’s “baby bonds” policy aims to help poorer children by giving them a government-funded savings account that could total up to $50,000 for the lowest income brackets. The plan has been praised by liberal scholars, who think it could go a long way in helping lower-income Americans begin to build wealth. And Senator Kirsten Gillibrand has endorsed a proposal to allow Americans without checking accounts to bank at the local post office; a disproportionate percentage of America’s unbanked population are people of color. María Urbina, national policy director for the progressive group Indivisible, said that after years of being pushed by activists, the Democratic Party was getting closer to applying its liberal values to racial equality. Policies like reparations or “baby bonds” that seek to close the racial wealth gap, she said, should be viewed similarly to idealistic programs that have been embraced by Democrats seeking the presidential nomination, including the Green New Deal and “Medicare for all.” “We want folks who are being ambitious, not just working within the margins and the contours of what we had before, but sort of reimagining things on our own terms and being really aspirational,” Ms. Urbina said. Sandy Darity, a Duke University professor who is a leading scholar on reparations and the racial wealth gap, said he believes more black Americans may come to see reparations as a defining issue for their support. “There is a point in black Americans making a collective decision to treat a candidate’s attitude toward reparations as a litmus test for supporting them,” Dr. Darity said. “I think if folks had paid closer attention to the fact that Barack Obama was against reparations, they would have not been as disappointed by his presidency, because they would have had more realistic expectations about what he was likely to do.” Among Democrats, the idea of reparations has been unpopular until very recently. For more than two decades, Representative John Conyers, the Detroit Democratic stalwart who resigned in December 2017, repeatedly introduced a reparations bill to Congress that received little support from either party. Mr. Sanders, the Vermont leftist whose rhetoric of a political revolution won him throngs of supporters in the last Democratic primary and disrupted the party establishment, dismissed the idea of reparations as politically unpalatable in January 2016, upsetting some racial justice activists who found his answer hypocritical. Mrs. Clinton, who beat Mr. Sanders for the 2016 nomination, also declined to support reparations. Mr. Obama, the country’s first black president, was seen in some political quarters as reticent about prioritizing the interests of black voters, and he called the idea of reparations impractical in 2016. “I’m not so optimistic as to think that you would ever be able to garner a majority of an American Congress that would make those kinds of investments, above and beyond the kinds of investments that could be made in a progressive program for lifting up all people,” Mr. Obama said. As Ms. Warren and Ms. Harris seek to lead the party into a new era, their support for the policy — which did not come with specifics — signals just how quickly prominent Democrats have expanded their political imagination after decades of dominance by the Clintons and Mr. Obama. Ms. Warren, in particular, has attempted to stake out more aggressive policies to push other Democrats in the race. Her proposal for universal child care would make the service free to any family earning up to double the federal poverty level, and would increase wages for child care workers — two initiatives that could particularly affect black and Latino communities, where informal child-care arrangements are more common. “We must confront the dark history of slavery and government-sanctioned discrimination in this country that has had many consequences, including undermining the ability of black families to build wealth in America for generations,” Ms. Warren told The Times. “We need systemic, structural changes to address that.” Another sign of the party’s shift on race: Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, the New York Democrat whose bold policy ideas and devoted national following have upended Capitol Hill, also voiced her support for reparations earlier this month. “Until America tells the truth about itself, we’re not going to heal,” Ms. Ocasio-Cortez said at a forum with Ta-Nehisi Coates, the writer whose landmark 2014 article, “The Case For Reparations,” helped thrust the issue back into American consciousness. Other Democratic 2020 candidates — including Mr. Booker, Ms. Gillibrand and Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota — either did not respond to requests for comment or stopped short of an endorsement of reparations. Instead, several laid out policies that, though not intended as a redress for slavery, would benefit black Americans. Mr. Booker “is running for president to reignite our sense of common purpose to build a more fair and just nation — that means enacting policies that atone for this nation’s history of intentionally discriminatory public policy toward African-Americans,” said Michael Tyler, a spokesman for his campaign. “You cannot address the systemic racism unique to this country without proposing race-conscious solutions.” Darrick Hamilton, a professor at Ohio State University who has worked with Dr. Darity on research regarding inequality, said Mr. Booker’s “baby bonds” plan could substantially transform wealth building measures for poor Americans and minorities and could help minorities grow assets. Dr. Hamilton and Dr. Darity both panned Ms. Harris’s signature economic proposals, which would dramatically expand a tax credit for middle-class families and provide rent relief to those struggling to afford rising home costs. Both proposals are “income-based,” the professors said, and would do little to stem wealth inequality between races. Only one 2020 candidate has laid out a reparations plan with specifics: Marianne Williamson, the best-selling author and self-described “spiritual teacher.” Since the start of her long-shot campaign, Ms. Williamson has called for $100 billion in reparations for black Americans — far more than any other Democrat, but substantially less than what scholars have said would be necessary. “Paltry,” Dr. Darity said of Ms. Williamson’s plan. Astead W. Herndon is a national political reporter based in New York. He was previously a Washington-based political reporter and a City Hall reporter for The Boston Globe.  @AsteadWesley 

Supported by By Astead W. Herndon From the very first day of the 2020 presidential race, when Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts blamed “generations of discrimination” for black families earning far less than white households, Democratic hopefuls have broadly emphasized racial justice and closing the wealth gap in their policy platforms. But in recent weeks, some candidates have started embracing specific goals and overtly race-conscious legislation that even the most left-wing elected officials stayed away from in recent years. Last week, on the popular radio show “The Breakfast Club,” Senator Kamala Harris of California agreed with a host’s suggestion that government reparations for black Americans were necessary to address the legacies of slavery and discrimination. Ms. Harris later affirmed that support in a statement to The New York Times. “We have to be honest that people in this country do not start from the same place or have access to the same opportunities,” she said. “I’m serious about taking an approach that would change policies and structures and make real investments in black communities.” Ms. Warren also said she supported reparations for black Americans impacted by slavery — a policy that experts say could cost several trillion dollars, and one that Barack Obama, Hillary Clinton, Bernie Sanders and many top Democrats have not supported. The Warren campaign declined to give further details on that backing, but it came amid her calls for the federal government to provide special home-buying assistance to residents of communities that were adversely affected by “redlining,” the discriminatory practice of denying mortgages, usually in poor and nonwhite areas. She also announced a sweeping universal child-care proposal that could strongly benefit minority communities that often have limited early childhood services. The morally driven policy goals of Ms. Harris and Ms. Warren reflect a broader shift in the importance of race and identity issues in the Democratic Party, according to several scholars and political leaders who focus on the intersection of race and politics. While Democrats have long cast themselves as more inclusive than the Republican Party, grass-roots organizers and many liberal voters of all races are now pushing elected officials to go further on policies of racial equality, regardless of any political calculations. But race-conscious policies could emerge as a fissure in a wide-open Democratic primary, as some moderate candidates seek to run against the party’s recent leftward lurch. There are also political risks for the general election: Republicans have long attempted to paint Democrats who embrace policies that address racial inequalities as anti-white, and polling often shows reparations for black Americans remains an unpopular policy across the country. That two leading Democratic candidates have embraced reparations — the concept that the federal government should both acknowledge the ongoing legacy of slavery and discrimination and provide compensatory payment to those affected — is a major shift from past presidential campaigns and a win for activists who have tried to push the issue into the mainstream for decades. Julián Castro, the former cabinet secretary who is also running for president, has also indicated that he would support reparations. Even among the 2020 Democrats who stopped short of endorsing reparations, several have laid out robust policies aimed at closing the gap in wealth between black and white families. Scholars estimate that black families in America today earn just $57.30 for every $100 in income earned by white families, according to the Census Bureau’s Current Population Survey. For every $100 in white family wealth, black families hold just $5.04. Senator Cory Booker’s “baby bonds” policy aims to help poorer children by giving them a government-funded savings account that could total up to $50,000 for the lowest income brackets. The plan has been praised by liberal scholars, who think it could go a long way in helping lower-income Americans begin to build wealth. And Senator Kirsten Gillibrand has endorsed a proposal to allow Americans without checking accounts to bank at the local post office; a disproportionate percentage of America’s unbanked population are people of color. María Urbina, national policy director for the progressive group Indivisible, said that after years of being pushed by activists, the Democratic Party was getting closer to applying its liberal values to racial equality. Policies like reparations or “baby bonds” that seek to close the racial wealth gap, she said, should be viewed similarly to idealistic programs that have been embraced by Democrats seeking the presidential nomination, including the Green New Deal and “Medicare for all.” “We want folks who are being ambitious, not just working within the margins and the contours of what we had before, but sort of reimagining things on our own terms and being really aspirational,” Ms. Urbina said. Sandy Darity, a Duke University professor who is a leading scholar on reparations and the racial wealth gap, said he believes more black Americans may come to see reparations as a defining issue for their support. “There is a point in black Americans making a collective decision to treat a candidate’s attitude toward reparations as a litmus test for supporting them,” Dr. Darity said. “I think if folks had paid closer attention to the fact that Barack Obama was against reparations, they would have not been as disappointed by his presidency, because they would have had more realistic expectations about what he was likely to do.” Among Democrats, the idea of reparations has been unpopular until very recently. For more than two decades, Representative John Conyers, the Detroit Democratic stalwart who resigned in December 2017, repeatedly introduced a reparations bill to Congress that received little support from either party. Mr. Sanders, the Vermont leftist whose rhetoric of a political revolution won him throngs of supporters in the last Democratic primary and disrupted the party establishment, dismissed the idea of reparations as politically unpalatable in January 2016, upsetting some racial justice activists who found his answer hypocritical. Mrs. Clinton, who beat Mr. Sanders for the 2016 nomination, also declined to support reparations. Mr. Obama, the country’s first black president, was seen in some political quarters as reticent about prioritizing the interests of black voters, and he called the idea of reparations impractical in 2016. “I’m not so optimistic as to think that you would ever be able to garner a majority of an American Congress that would make those kinds of investments, above and beyond the kinds of investments that could be made in a progressive program for lifting up all people,” Mr. Obama said. As Ms. Warren and Ms. Harris seek to lead the party into a new era, their support for the policy — which did not come with specifics — signals just how quickly prominent Democrats have expanded their political imagination after decades of dominance by the Clintons and Mr. Obama. Ms. Warren, in particular, has attempted to stake out more aggressive policies to push other Democrats in the race. Her proposal for universal child care would make the service free to any family earning up to double the federal poverty level, and would increase wages for child care workers — two initiatives that could particularly affect black and Latino communities, where informal child-care arrangements are more common. “We must confront the dark history of slavery and government-sanctioned discrimination in this country that has had many consequences, including undermining the ability of black families to build wealth in America for generations,” Ms. Warren told The Times. “We need systemic, structural changes to address that.” Another sign of the party’s shift on race: Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, the New York Democrat whose bold policy ideas and devoted national following have upended Capitol Hill, also voiced her support for reparations earlier this month. “Until America tells the truth about itself, we’re not going to heal,” Ms. Ocasio-Cortez said at a forum with Ta-Nehisi Coates, the writer whose landmark 2014 article, “The Case For Reparations,” helped thrust the issue back into American consciousness. Other Democratic 2020 candidates — including Mr. Booker, Ms. Gillibrand and Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota — either did not respond to requests for comment or stopped short of an endorsement of reparations. Instead, several laid out policies that, though not intended as a redress for slavery, would benefit black Americans. Mr. Booker “is running for president to reignite our sense of common purpose to build a more fair and just nation — that means enacting policies that atone for this nation’s history of intentionally discriminatory public policy toward African-Americans,” said Michael Tyler, a spokesman for his campaign. “You cannot address the systemic racism unique to this country without proposing race-conscious solutions.” Darrick Hamilton, a professor at Ohio State University who has worked with Dr. Darity on research regarding inequality, said Mr. Booker’s “baby bonds” plan could substantially transform wealth building measures for poor Americans and minorities and could help minorities grow assets. Dr. Hamilton and Dr. Darity both panned Ms. Harris’s signature economic proposals, which would dramatically expand a tax credit for middle-class families and provide rent relief to those struggling to afford rising home costs. Both proposals are “income-based,” the professors said, and would do little to stem wealth inequality between races. Only one 2020 candidate has laid out a reparations plan with specifics: Marianne Williamson, the best-selling author and self-described “spiritual teacher.” Since the start of her long-shot campaign, Ms. Williamson has called for $100 billion in reparations for black Americans — far more than any other Democrat, but substantially less than what scholars have said would be necessary. “Paltry,” Dr. Darity said of Ms. Williamson’s plan. Astead W. Herndon is a national political reporter based in New York. He was previously a Washington-based political reporter and a City Hall reporter for The Boston Globe.  @AsteadWesley Supported by By Richard Fausset ATLANTA — One presidential candidate was a black female senator from California, speaking with subdued precision and being received like distant kin at what used to be the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.’s church in Atlanta. The other candidate was a white ex-congressman from Texas, barreling through South Carolina with an improvisational air of empathetic energy, and acknowledging that his whiteness had given him a leg up in life. For Senator Kamala Harris and former Representative Beto O’Rourke, these recent swings through the South included an overlapping purpose: delivering messages that appeared tailored to black audiences in a region where black women, in particular, will likely be key decision makers in the Democratic primaries. But the separate appearances by Ms. Harris and Mr. O’Rourke also underscored that no single formula exists for winning over black female voters, who received the two candidates with a mix of enthusiasm and caution. There are others vying for these voters’ attention. Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts was in the Mississippi Delta earlier this month talking about affordable housing. Senator Amy Klobuchar was in Florida, touting how she had been discussing 2020 strategy with Andrew Gillum, the African-American candidate who narrowly lost the Florida governor’s race in November. Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey has been a near-constant Southern presence the last couple of years, offering his endorsement and oratorical skills to a range of Democratic candidates. This activity is a demonstration of the belief among 2020 contenders that the hearts and minds of black female voters are up for grabs in the Democratic primaries. Strong potential suitors are still weighing presidential bids, including former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and Stacey Abrams, the popular black Democrat from Georgia. For now, Ms. Harris, 54, is one of two major black Democratic candidates — along with Mr. Booker — and many southern black and liberal voters are excited by the idea of the first black woman president. While Ms. Harris has drawn enthusiastic audiences, she has also faced some criticism that as a former prosecutor and California attorney general, parts of her criminal justice record were insufficiently progressive. And Ms. Harris, whose father is from Jamaica and whose mother is from India, has been the target of offensive online memes about her race that have sparked questions among some voters. On Sunday, as Ms. Harris prepared to introduce herself at Atlanta’s Ebenezer Baptist Church, a former New York state corrections officer named Lamarr Robinson brought up both matters. He criticized Ms. Harris’s handling of a highly-publicized case of a black death-row inmate whose case was tainted by racism. And Mr. Robinson added, “She’s more east Indian than African-American.” Amid the swelling voices of church’s choir and congregation, Ms. Harris emerged from the wings, joined by Keisha Lance Bottoms, Atlanta’s second black female mayor. “Let me show you how far we’ve come,” Ebenezer’s pastor, the Rev. Dr. Raphael Warnock, declared from the pulpit. “Atlanta’s got a mayor named Keisha.” The crowd chuckled and cheered. He added: “We’ve got a presidential candidate named Kamala.” Mr. Warnock argued that Ms. Harris’s campaign was “the realization of our ancestors’ wildest dreams.” He spoke of the black trailblazers who had made it possible, from Fannie Lou Hamer, the voting rights activist, to the Rev. Jesse Jackson, who ran for president in 1984 and 1988. Ms. Harris spoke briefly, telling the congregation that her parents had been civil rights activists in California. She lamented that babies were being “ripped from their parents” at the border and that black parents must still give “the talk” to their children about the racial bias in policing. The reception at church was warm, but it was closer to ecstatic in the afternoon at the Morehouse College gym, where school officials estimated Ms. Harris drew a crowd of 3,000. The audience was an energized, multicultural mix. Some, like Deliska Cooley, an elementary schoolteacher from Talladega County, Ala., and her two teenage daughters, had already decided that Ms. Harris was their candidate. Ms. Cooley said online memes questioning Ms. Harris’s blackness were ludicrous. “I’m a teacher. I have a rainbow in my classroom,” she said. Her daughter Skyla Cooley, 17, a high school senior, said that she thought Ms. Harris was unfairly taking heat for simply being a tough prosecutor. “We don’t want people not to be prosecuted — we want it to be fair across the board,” she said. A few seats away, Naquila Gilchrist-Jalajel, 46, a small-business owner, said she had not made up her mind on a candidate; with so many of them, she said, she still had homework to do. But Ms. Gilchrest-Jalajel, who was worried about health care, education and the shrinking middle class, said that she would definitely get out and canvass once she had chosen a candidate. Ms. Abrams’ campaign for governor, she said, had converted her from an observer to a participant. Ms. Harris took the stage, strolling around comfortably as she spoke, more animated than she was in church. “What’s up Atlanta?” she said. She talked about the goal of repealing the Republican tax cut and replacing it with one for the middle class. She talked about addressing climate change more vigorously, and making what she called “the largest federal investment in closing the teacher pay gap.” Two days earlier, Mr. O’Rourke, 46, was driving himself around South Carolina in a minivan, trying to make the case to black voters that he was a white male politician they could trust. His first stop Friday was in Rock Hill, S.C., where he toured the site of the 1961 sit-in staged by a group of African-American civil rights protesters known as the Friendship Nine. In the afternoon, he was speaking to a modest-sized crowd at South Carolina State University, a historically black campus in Orangeburg, S.C. Standing outside of the student center, clutching a microphone and with sleeves of his dress shirt rolled up, Mr. O’Rourke railed against an economy “that works too well for too few,” and a “prison industrial complex” that disproportionately affects people of color. When the mike was passed around for audience questions, the first comment came from a retired nurse, an African-American woman who was worried that the Democrats were presenting too many choices to voters, and thus diluting their power. She wanted to win in 2020. “As a 63-year-old middle class female, I want to make a note to the Democrats,” she said. “It is getting to be too much. We are getting too divided. Divided we will fall. Together we will stand.” Later, Mr. O’Rourke spoke of the historic injustices perpetrated against black people, from slavery to racist “redlining” that denied them home loans. “I’m a white man who’s had a privilege in my life; I’m not enduring any one of those things that I’ve just described,” he said. “But I’ve listened to those who have.” Watching in the back of the crowd were Kadara and Kaywon Nelson, a black couple in their 30s, who had come out to learn more about Mr. O’Rourke. They were anti-Trump, but otherwise undecided. The biggest issue for Ms. Nelson, the campus safety compliance officer, was the cost of health care. “And student loan debt,” said Mr. Nelson, who works for a pharmaceutical company. “I don’t care about the wall.” They both said a candidate who could address the country’s issues was more important than finding one who represented their race. Mr. Nelson made reference to the political themes of the first Obama candidacy. “I think we’re past that,” he said. “The message has got to be a little stronger, because ‘hope’ hasn’t gotten us much.” After the presentation, Dr. Tamara J. Jackson, the vice president of student affairs at South Carolina State, said she liked what she heard — particularly Mr. O’Rourke’s emphasis on gay rights and ensuring H.B.C.U. funding. She was also impressed, she said, with Mr. Booker and Ms. Harris. “I’d like to see a black female as president,” she said, “But I’m not sure America is ready.” She added: “I pray that I’m wrong about that.”    

Supported by By Richard Fausset ATLANTA — One presidential candidate was a black female senator from California, speaking with subdued precision and being received like distant kin at what used to be the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.’s church in Atlanta. The other candidate was a white ex-congressman from Texas, barreling through South Carolina with an improvisational air of empathetic energy, and acknowledging that his whiteness had given him a leg up in life. For Senator Kamala Harris and former Representative Beto O’Rourke, these recent swings through the South included an overlapping purpose: delivering messages that appeared tailored to black audiences in a region where black women, in particular, will likely be key decision makers in the Democratic primaries. But the separate appearances by Ms. Harris and Mr. O’Rourke also underscored that no single formula exists for winning over black female voters, who received the two candidates with a mix of enthusiasm and caution. There are others vying for these voters’ attention. Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts was in the Mississippi Delta earlier this month talking about affordable housing. Senator Amy Klobuchar was in Florida, touting how she had been discussing 2020 strategy with Andrew Gillum, the African-American candidate who narrowly lost the Florida governor’s race in November. Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey has been a near-constant Southern presence the last couple of years, offering his endorsement and oratorical skills to a range of Democratic candidates. This activity is a demonstration of the belief among 2020 contenders that the hearts and minds of black female voters are up for grabs in the Democratic primaries. Strong potential suitors are still weighing presidential bids, including former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and Stacey Abrams, the popular black Democrat from Georgia. For now, Ms. Harris, 54, is one of two major black Democratic candidates — along with Mr. Booker — and many southern black and liberal voters are excited by the idea of the first black woman president. While Ms. Harris has drawn enthusiastic audiences, she has also faced some criticism that as a former prosecutor and California attorney general, parts of her criminal justice record were insufficiently progressive. And Ms. Harris, whose father is from Jamaica and whose mother is from India, has been the target of offensive online memes about her race that have sparked questions among some voters. On Sunday, as Ms. Harris prepared to introduce herself at Atlanta’s Ebenezer Baptist Church, a former New York state corrections officer named Lamarr Robinson brought up both matters. He criticized Ms. Harris’s handling of a highly-publicized case of a black death-row inmate whose case was tainted by racism. And Mr. Robinson added, “She’s more east Indian than African-American.” Amid the swelling voices of church’s choir and congregation, Ms. Harris emerged from the wings, joined by Keisha Lance Bottoms, Atlanta’s second black female mayor. “Let me show you how far we’ve come,” Ebenezer’s pastor, the Rev. Dr. Raphael Warnock, declared from the pulpit. “Atlanta’s got a mayor named Keisha.” The crowd chuckled and cheered. He added: “We’ve got a presidential candidate named Kamala.” Mr. Warnock argued that Ms. Harris’s campaign was “the realization of our ancestors’ wildest dreams.” He spoke of the black trailblazers who had made it possible, from Fannie Lou Hamer, the voting rights activist, to the Rev. Jesse Jackson, who ran for president in 1984 and 1988. Ms. Harris spoke briefly, telling the congregation that her parents had been civil rights activists in California. She lamented that babies were being “ripped from their parents” at the border and that black parents must still give “the talk” to their children about the racial bias in policing. The reception at church was warm, but it was closer to ecstatic in the afternoon at the Morehouse College gym, where school officials estimated Ms. Harris drew a crowd of 3,000. The audience was an energized, multicultural mix. Some, like Deliska Cooley, an elementary schoolteacher from Talladega County, Ala., and her two teenage daughters, had already decided that Ms. Harris was their candidate. Ms. Cooley said online memes questioning Ms. Harris’s blackness were ludicrous. “I’m a teacher. I have a rainbow in my classroom,” she said. Her daughter Skyla Cooley, 17, a high school senior, said that she thought Ms. Harris was unfairly taking heat for simply being a tough prosecutor. “We don’t want people not to be prosecuted — we want it to be fair across the board,” she said. A few seats away, Naquila Gilchrist-Jalajel, 46, a small-business owner, said she had not made up her mind on a candidate; with so many of them, she said, she still had homework to do. But Ms. Gilchrest-Jalajel, who was worried about health care, education and the shrinking middle class, said that she would definitely get out and canvass once she had chosen a candidate. Ms. Abrams’ campaign for governor, she said, had converted her from an observer to a participant. Ms. Harris took the stage, strolling around comfortably as she spoke, more animated than she was in church. “What’s up Atlanta?” she said. She talked about the goal of repealing the Republican tax cut and replacing it with one for the middle class. She talked about addressing climate change more vigorously, and making what she called “the largest federal investment in closing the teacher pay gap.” Two days earlier, Mr. O’Rourke, 46, was driving himself around South Carolina in a minivan, trying to make the case to black voters that he was a white male politician they could trust. His first stop Friday was in Rock Hill, S.C., where he toured the site of the 1961 sit-in staged by a group of African-American civil rights protesters known as the Friendship Nine. In the afternoon, he was speaking to a modest-sized crowd at South Carolina State University, a historically black campus in Orangeburg, S.C. Standing outside of the student center, clutching a microphone and with sleeves of his dress shirt rolled up, Mr. O’Rourke railed against an economy “that works too well for too few,” and a “prison industrial complex” that disproportionately affects people of color. When the mike was passed around for audience questions, the first comment came from a retired nurse, an African-American woman who was worried that the Democrats were presenting too many choices to voters, and thus diluting their power. She wanted to win in 2020. “As a 63-year-old middle class female, I want to make a note to the Democrats,” she said. “It is getting to be too much. We are getting too divided. Divided we will fall. Together we will stand.” Later, Mr. O’Rourke spoke of the historic injustices perpetrated against black people, from slavery to racist “redlining” that denied them home loans. “I’m a white man who’s had a privilege in my life; I’m not enduring any one of those things that I’ve just described,” he said. “But I’ve listened to those who have.” Watching in the back of the crowd were Kadara and Kaywon Nelson, a black couple in their 30s, who had come out to learn more about Mr. O’Rourke. They were anti-Trump, but otherwise undecided. The biggest issue for Ms. Nelson, the campus safety compliance officer, was the cost of health care. “And student loan debt,” said Mr. Nelson, who works for a pharmaceutical company. “I don’t care about the wall.” They both said a candidate who could address the country’s issues was more important than finding one who represented their race. Mr. Nelson made reference to the political themes of the first Obama candidacy. “I think we’re past that,” he said. “The message has got to be a little stronger, because ‘hope’ hasn’t gotten us much.” After the presentation, Dr. Tamara J. Jackson, the vice president of student affairs at South Carolina State, said she liked what she heard — particularly Mr. O’Rourke’s emphasis on gay rights and ensuring H.B.C.U. funding. She was also impressed, she said, with Mr. Booker and Ms. Harris. “I’d like to see a black female as president,” she said, “But I’m not sure America is ready.” She added: “I pray that I’m wrong about that.”    Supported by By Jonathan Martin and Abby Goodnough WASHINGTON — Senator Elizabeth Warren spoke at length this week about her vision for improving the American health care system, like strengthening the Affordable Care Act and making prescription drugs more affordable. Twice, though, she ignored a question posed to her: Would she support eliminating private health insurance in favor of a single-payer system? “Affordable health care for every American” is her goal, Ms. Warren said on Bloomberg Television, and there are “different ways we can get there.” To put it another way: I am not walking into that political trap. Ms. Warren of Massachusetts and three other liberal presidential candidates support a Medicare for All bill, which would create a single-payer health plan run by the government and increase federal spending by at least $2.5 trillion a year, according to several estimates. But Ms. Warren’s determination to sidestep an essential but deeply controversial issue at the heart of the single-payer model — would people lose the choices offered by private insurance? — illustrated one of the thorniest dilemmas for several Democrats as the 2020 primary gets underway. [Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.] Their activist base, inspired by Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, believes that the party should unabashedly pursue universal health care, ending private insurance entirely. But polls indicate that the broader electorate, particularly the moderate- and high-income voters who propelled the party’s sweeping suburban gains in the midterms, is uneasy about this “Medicare for all” approach in which many would lose their current insurance options and pay higher taxes. Senator Kamala Harris of California drew immediate attacks from Republicans this week by taking on the issue that Ms. Warren dodged. Ms. Harris breezily acknowledged in a CNN town hall forum that she would “eliminate all of that,” referring to ending private insurance in a country where almost 60 percent of the population receives coverage through an employer. Her remark triggered an intraparty debate about an issue that until now had been largely theoretical: A decade after Democrats pushed through the most significant expansion of health care since the Great Society, should they build incrementally on the Affordable Care Act or scrap the insurance sector entirely and create a European-style public program? Four Democratic presidential candidates — Ms. Harris, Ms. Warren, Senator Kirsten Gillibrand of New York and Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey — are among the co-sponsors of Mr. Sanders’s Medicare for All bill, which would replace the Affordable Care Act with a single government health plan for all Americans. Medicare is the federal program providing health coverage to people 65 and older. The concept of Medicare for all has become popular with Democrats: 81 percent support it, according to a recent Kaiser poll. Yet voter opposition to surrendering the insurance they are used to led to a backlash over President Barack Obama’s repeated promise that “if you like your plan, you can keep your plan” after it proved false for several million people under his health law. Many Democrats are keenly aware of that backlash, and the 2020 presidential race will be the first where many of the party’s leading candidates will have to explain and defend the meaning of Medicare for all. For now, as Ms. Warren demonstrated, many candidates do not want to wrestle publicly with the details. After Ms. Harris’s comment, her aides hastened to add that she would also support less sweeping changes to health care; like most other candidates, Ms. Harris declined an interview request. And by Friday, Mr. Booker, hours after announcing his presidential bid, sought to curtail the matter by offering a brisk “no” when asked if he supported eliminating private coverage. Yet there is one likely 2020 contender who is thrilled to discuss Medicare for all. Mr. Sanders, in an interview, did not mince words: The only role for private insurance in the system he envisioned would be “cosmetic surgery, you want to get your nose fixed.” “Every candidate will make his or her own decisions,” Mr. Sanders said, but “if I look at polling and 70 percent of the people support Medicare for All, if a very significant percentage of people think the rich, the very rich, should start paying their fair share of taxes, I think I’d be pretty dumb not to develop policies that capture what the American people want.” But Michael R. Bloomberg, the former New York City mayor who is considering a 2020 bid on a centrist Democratic platform, said it would be folly to even consider a single-payer system. “To replace the entire private system where companies provide health care for their employees would bankrupt us for a very long time,” Mr. Bloomberg told reporters in New Hampshire on Tuesday. The Congressional Budget Office has not scored Mr. Sanders’s Medicare for All bill, but a study last year by the Mercatus Center of George Mason University predicted it would increase federal spending by at least $32.6 trillion over the first decade. The cost could be even greater, the study says, if the bill overestimated the projected savings on administrative and drug costs, as well as payments to health care providers. The divide between Mr. Sanders, a democratic socialist, and Mr. Bloomberg, a Republican-turned-independent-turned-Democrat, reflects the large chasm in a party that has been reshaped by President Trump. The president’s hard-line nationalism has simultaneously nudged Democrats to the left, emboldening them to pursue unambiguously liberal policies, and drawn independents and moderate Republicans to the party because they cannot abide his incendiary conduct and demagogy on race. These dueling forces have created a growing but ungainly coalition that shares contempt for Mr. Trump but is less unified on policy matters like health care. And these divisions extend to what is wisest politically. Liberals argue that the only way to drive up turnout among unlikely voters or win back some of the voters uneasy with Hillary Clinton’s ties to corporate interests is to pursue a bold agenda and elevate issues like Medicare for all. “Those who run on incremental changes are not the ones who are going to get people excited and get people to turn out,” said Representative Pramila Jayapal of Washington, the co-chair of the Congressional Progressive Caucus. And by preserving their options, Democrats risk alienating liberal primary voters, some of whom consider support for Medicare for all a litmus test. “The center is not a good place to be on these policies anymore,” said Mary O’Connor, 61, a substitute teacher and horse farmer in Middleburg, Va., who wants a single-payer system. “I’ll be watching extremely closely, and I will most likely jump on board and volunteer for whoever it is that’s going to be the most forceful for this.” But moderates believe that most Democratic primary voters are more fixated on defeating Mr. Trump than applying litmus tests — and that terminating employer-sponsored insurance would only frighten the sort of general election voters who are eager to cast out Mr. Trump but do not want to wholly remake the country’s health care system. “Most of the freshmen who helped take back the House got elected on: ‘We’re going to protect your health insurance even if you have a pre-existing condition,’ not ‘We’re going to take this whole system and throw it out the window,’” said Kenneth Baer, a Democratic strategist. While polling does show that Medicare for all — a buzz phrase that has lately been applied to everything from single-payer health care to programs that would allow some or all Americans to buy into Medicare or Medicaid — has broad public support, attitudes swing significantly depending on not just the details, but respondents’ age and income. On the House side, a bill similar in scope to Mr. Sanders’s is under revision and will soon be reintroduced with Ms. Jayapal as the main sponsor. Other Democrats have introduced less expansive “Medicare buy-in” bills, which would preserve the current system but would give certain Americans under 65 the option of paying for Medicare or a new “public option” plan. Another bill would give every state the option of letting residents buy into Medicaid, the government health program for poor Americans. The buy-in programs would generally cover between 60 and 80 percent of people’s medical costs and would require much less federal spending because enrollees would still pay premiums and not everyone would be eligible. Some proponents, like Senator Jeff Merkley, Democrat of Oregon, have described them as a steppingstone on the way to a full single-payer system; some of the Democrats running for president are co-sponsoring these “Medicare for more” bills as well as Mr. Sanders’s. Mr. Sanders has suggested options to raise the money needed for his plan, such as a new 7.5 percent payroll tax and a wealth tax on the top 0.1 percent of earners. He has also predicted several trillion dollars in savings over 10 years from eliminating the tax exclusion that employers get on what they pay toward their workers’ insurance premiums, and other tax breaks. But Robert Blendon, a health policy professor at Harvard who studies public opinion, said it would be wise not to delve into financing details for now. “The reason it failed in Vermont and Colorado was taxes,” Professor Blendon said, referring to recent efforts to move to a near-universal health care system in those states, which flopped resoundingly because they would have required major tax increases. “But Democratic primary voters will not go deep into asking how these plans will work. What they will say is, ‘Show me you have a principle that health care is a human right.’” The general election will be a different story, Professor Blendon added. If Ms. Harris were to become the Democratic nominee and keep embracing the idea of ending private coverage, he argued, “she’s going to have terrible problems.” The difficulty for Democrats, added Ezekiel Emanuel, a former Obama health care adviser, is that many voters look at the health care system the same way they view politics. “They say Congress is terrible but I like my congressman,” as Mr. Emanuel put it. According to the Gallup poll, 70 percent of Americans with private insurance rate their coverage as “excellent” or “good;” 85 percent say the same about the medical care they receive. The Kaiser poll found that the percentage of Americans who support a national health plan drops by 19 percentage points when people hear that it would eliminate insurance companies or that it would require Americans to pay more in taxes. Among those who make over $90,000 a year — the sort of voters in the House districts that several Democrats captured in the midterms — those surveyed in the Kaiser poll were particularly wary of an all-government system: 64 percent in this income group said they would oppose a Medicare for all plan that terminated private insurance. “My constituents are tired of bumper sticker debates about complex issues,” said Representative Lizzie Pannill Fletcher of Texas, a freshman from an affluent Houston district. “We don’t want ideologues in charge.” In Vermont, where former Gov. Peter Shumlin shelved his ambitious plan for a single-payer system in 2014 after conceding it would require “enormous” new taxes, advocates for universal health care are now resigned to a more incremental approach. Dr. Deb Richter, a primary care doctor who helped lead the state’s single-payer movement, said that while the Democratic field is “going to have to face the T word,” being upfront about the required tax increases, she now thinks phasing in a government-run system is a better approach. “There’s ways of doing this that don’t have to happen all at once,” she said, pointing to a push in Vermont to start with universal government coverage for primary care only. “But you need to talk about the end goal: We are aiming for Medicare for all, and this is a way of getting it done.” Maggie Astor contributed reporting from New York.   

Supported by By Jonathan Martin and Abby Goodnough WASHINGTON — Senator Elizabeth Warren spoke at length this week about her vision for improving the American health care system, like strengthening the Affordable Care Act and making prescription drugs more affordable. Twice, though, she ignored a question posed to her: Would she support eliminating private health insurance in favor of a single-payer system? “Affordable health care for every American” is her goal, Ms. Warren said on Bloomberg Television, and there are “different ways we can get there.” To put it another way: I am not walking into that political trap. Ms. Warren of Massachusetts and three other liberal presidential candidates support a Medicare for All bill, which would create a single-payer health plan run by the government and increase federal spending by at least $2.5 trillion a year, according to several estimates. But Ms. Warren’s determination to sidestep an essential but deeply controversial issue at the heart of the single-payer model — would people lose the choices offered by private insurance? — illustrated one of the thorniest dilemmas for several Democrats as the 2020 primary gets underway. [Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.] Their activist base, inspired by Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, believes that the party should unabashedly pursue universal health care, ending private insurance entirely. But polls indicate that the broader electorate, particularly the moderate- and high-income voters who propelled the party’s sweeping suburban gains in the midterms, is uneasy about this “Medicare for all” approach in which many would lose their current insurance options and pay higher taxes. Senator Kamala Harris of California drew immediate attacks from Republicans this week by taking on the issue that Ms. Warren dodged. Ms. Harris breezily acknowledged in a CNN town hall forum that she would “eliminate all of that,” referring to ending private insurance in a country where almost 60 percent of the population receives coverage through an employer. Her remark triggered an intraparty debate about an issue that until now had been largely theoretical: A decade after Democrats pushed through the most significant expansion of health care since the Great Society, should they build incrementally on the Affordable Care Act or scrap the insurance sector entirely and create a European-style public program? Four Democratic presidential candidates — Ms. Harris, Ms. Warren, Senator Kirsten Gillibrand of New York and Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey — are among the co-sponsors of Mr. Sanders’s Medicare for All bill, which would replace the Affordable Care Act with a single government health plan for all Americans. Medicare is the federal program providing health coverage to people 65 and older. The concept of Medicare for all has become popular with Democrats: 81 percent support it, according to a recent Kaiser poll. Yet voter opposition to surrendering the insurance they are used to led to a backlash over President Barack Obama’s repeated promise that “if you like your plan, you can keep your plan” after it proved false for several million people under his health law. Many Democrats are keenly aware of that backlash, and the 2020 presidential race will be the first where many of the party’s leading candidates will have to explain and defend the meaning of Medicare for all. For now, as Ms. Warren demonstrated, many candidates do not want to wrestle publicly with the details. After Ms. Harris’s comment, her aides hastened to add that she would also support less sweeping changes to health care; like most other candidates, Ms. Harris declined an interview request. And by Friday, Mr. Booker, hours after announcing his presidential bid, sought to curtail the matter by offering a brisk “no” when asked if he supported eliminating private coverage. Yet there is one likely 2020 contender who is thrilled to discuss Medicare for all. Mr. Sanders, in an interview, did not mince words: The only role for private insurance in the system he envisioned would be “cosmetic surgery, you want to get your nose fixed.” “Every candidate will make his or her own decisions,” Mr. Sanders said, but “if I look at polling and 70 percent of the people support Medicare for All, if a very significant percentage of people think the rich, the very rich, should start paying their fair share of taxes, I think I’d be pretty dumb not to develop policies that capture what the American people want.” But Michael R. Bloomberg, the former New York City mayor who is considering a 2020 bid on a centrist Democratic platform, said it would be folly to even consider a single-payer system. “To replace the entire private system where companies provide health care for their employees would bankrupt us for a very long time,” Mr. Bloomberg told reporters in New Hampshire on Tuesday. The Congressional Budget Office has not scored Mr. Sanders’s Medicare for All bill, but a study last year by the Mercatus Center of George Mason University predicted it would increase federal spending by at least $32.6 trillion over the first decade. The cost could be even greater, the study says, if the bill overestimated the projected savings on administrative and drug costs, as well as payments to health care providers. The divide between Mr. Sanders, a democratic socialist, and Mr. Bloomberg, a Republican-turned-independent-turned-Democrat, reflects the large chasm in a party that has been reshaped by President Trump. The president’s hard-line nationalism has simultaneously nudged Democrats to the left, emboldening them to pursue unambiguously liberal policies, and drawn independents and moderate Republicans to the party because they cannot abide his incendiary conduct and demagogy on race. These dueling forces have created a growing but ungainly coalition that shares contempt for Mr. Trump but is less unified on policy matters like health care. And these divisions extend to what is wisest politically. Liberals argue that the only way to drive up turnout among unlikely voters or win back some of the voters uneasy with Hillary Clinton’s ties to corporate interests is to pursue a bold agenda and elevate issues like Medicare for all. “Those who run on incremental changes are not the ones who are going to get people excited and get people to turn out,” said Representative Pramila Jayapal of Washington, the co-chair of the Congressional Progressive Caucus. And by preserving their options, Democrats risk alienating liberal primary voters, some of whom consider support for Medicare for all a litmus test. “The center is not a good place to be on these policies anymore,” said Mary O’Connor, 61, a substitute teacher and horse farmer in Middleburg, Va., who wants a single-payer system. “I’ll be watching extremely closely, and I will most likely jump on board and volunteer for whoever it is that’s going to be the most forceful for this.” But moderates believe that most Democratic primary voters are more fixated on defeating Mr. Trump than applying litmus tests — and that terminating employer-sponsored insurance would only frighten the sort of general election voters who are eager to cast out Mr. Trump but do not want to wholly remake the country’s health care system. “Most of the freshmen who helped take back the House got elected on: ‘We’re going to protect your health insurance even if you have a pre-existing condition,’ not ‘We’re going to take this whole system and throw it out the window,’” said Kenneth Baer, a Democratic strategist. While polling does show that Medicare for all — a buzz phrase that has lately been applied to everything from single-payer health care to programs that would allow some or all Americans to buy into Medicare or Medicaid — has broad public support, attitudes swing significantly depending on not just the details, but respondents’ age and income. On the House side, a bill similar in scope to Mr. Sanders’s is under revision and will soon be reintroduced with Ms. Jayapal as the main sponsor. Other Democrats have introduced less expansive “Medicare buy-in” bills, which would preserve the current system but would give certain Americans under 65 the option of paying for Medicare or a new “public option” plan. Another bill would give every state the option of letting residents buy into Medicaid, the government health program for poor Americans. The buy-in programs would generally cover between 60 and 80 percent of people’s medical costs and would require much less federal spending because enrollees would still pay premiums and not everyone would be eligible. Some proponents, like Senator Jeff Merkley, Democrat of Oregon, have described them as a steppingstone on the way to a full single-payer system; some of the Democrats running for president are co-sponsoring these “Medicare for more” bills as well as Mr. Sanders’s. Mr. Sanders has suggested options to raise the money needed for his plan, such as a new 7.5 percent payroll tax and a wealth tax on the top 0.1 percent of earners. He has also predicted several trillion dollars in savings over 10 years from eliminating the tax exclusion that employers get on what they pay toward their workers’ insurance premiums, and other tax breaks. But Robert Blendon, a health policy professor at Harvard who studies public opinion, said it would be wise not to delve into financing details for now. “The reason it failed in Vermont and Colorado was taxes,” Professor Blendon said, referring to recent efforts to move to a near-universal health care system in those states, which flopped resoundingly because they would have required major tax increases. “But Democratic primary voters will not go deep into asking how these plans will work. What they will say is, ‘Show me you have a principle that health care is a human right.’” The general election will be a different story, Professor Blendon added. If Ms. Harris were to become the Democratic nominee and keep embracing the idea of ending private coverage, he argued, “she’s going to have terrible problems.” The difficulty for Democrats, added Ezekiel Emanuel, a former Obama health care adviser, is that many voters look at the health care system the same way they view politics. “They say Congress is terrible but I like my congressman,” as Mr. Emanuel put it. According to the Gallup poll, 70 percent of Americans with private insurance rate their coverage as “excellent” or “good;” 85 percent say the same about the medical care they receive. The Kaiser poll found that the percentage of Americans who support a national health plan drops by 19 percentage points when people hear that it would eliminate insurance companies or that it would require Americans to pay more in taxes. Among those who make over $90,000 a year — the sort of voters in the House districts that several Democrats captured in the midterms — those surveyed in the Kaiser poll were particularly wary of an all-government system: 64 percent in this income group said they would oppose a Medicare for all plan that terminated private insurance. “My constituents are tired of bumper sticker debates about complex issues,” said Representative Lizzie Pannill Fletcher of Texas, a freshman from an affluent Houston district. “We don’t want ideologues in charge.” In Vermont, where former Gov. Peter Shumlin shelved his ambitious plan for a single-payer system in 2014 after conceding it would require “enormous” new taxes, advocates for universal health care are now resigned to a more incremental approach. Dr. Deb Richter, a primary care doctor who helped lead the state’s single-payer movement, said that while the Democratic field is “going to have to face the T word,” being upfront about the required tax increases, she now thinks phasing in a government-run system is a better approach. “There’s ways of doing this that don’t have to happen all at once,” she said, pointing to a push in Vermont to start with universal government coverage for primary care only. “But you need to talk about the end goal: We are aiming for Medicare for all, and this is a way of getting it done.” Maggie Astor contributed reporting from New York.   Supported by By Annie Karni WASHINGTON — Rhona Graff, President Trump’s longtime executive assistant, was asked for documents related to foreign governments providing gifts or money to Ivanka Trump or her businesses. Anatoli Samochornov, the Russian translator who sat in on a meeting between Trump campaign officials and Russian lobbyists, was asked to hand over handwritten notes showing any capital investment from Russian entities to Ms. Trump or her businesses. And Jeff Sessions, the former attorney general, was asked for any documents related to loans or capital investments from Russians directed to Ms. Trump. The president’s elder daughter and top White House adviser was notably absent from a blitz of document requests that the House Judiciary Committee sent earlier this month to 81 individuals and organizations linked to the president. House Democrats have been cautious about targeting Ms. Trump and the other Trump children as they investigate the president, worried about triggering a backlash. But a close read of the document requests suggests they aren’t exactly tiptoeing around the first daughter, either. Of the 81 document requests sent, 52 individuals and organizations were asked to turn over documents related to Ms. Trump or her business interests. White House officials are viewing the document requests as an attempt by the House Judiciary Committee to set the stage for potentially impeaching the president. But the inquiries related to Ms. Trump follow a side track: They ask for documents related to any financial benefit that Ms. Trump or her businesses reaped from foreign and domestic governments after the 2016 election. And they provide a hint of how Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, may be planning to look into potential financial conflicts of interest from Ms. Trump. “She’d be in violation of the Constitution if she was getting any business deals from foreign governments,” said Richard W. Painter, who served as chief ethics lawyer under President George W. Bush. Mr. Painter was referring to the emoluments clause of the Constitution, which prohibits government officials from accepting payments or gifts from foreign governments. “They’re also going after other payments that aren’t emoluments clause violations that we ought to know about that could be creating financial conflicts of interest for her,” Mr. Painter said. “The idea here is to get an awful lot of information we would have had if there had been more detailed disclosures about the entities the Trump family controls.” A spokesman for the House Judiciary Committee declined to comment on the committee’s interest in Ms. Trump. But Mr. Nadler has said that the 81 requests were only the first tranche and that requests to others, including Ms. Trump, could “quite conceivably” follow. The characters working behind the scenes on the document requests also provide a hint of what the Judiciary Committee is looking for. In February, House Democrats retained Norman L. Eisen, a litigator and prominent Trump critic, to begin its inquiries into the president. Mr. Eisen, who played a large role in overseeing the document requests, has also been vocal about potential emoluments clause violations from the president and his family. In December 2016, for instance, he was an author of a report for the Brookings Institution, “The Emoluments Clause: Its text, meaning, and application to Donald J. Trump.” Ms. Trump and her husband, Jared Kushner, never completely divested from their companies even after taking top White House positions. Their income in 2017, from various investments they remained involved in through vehicles and trusts, was $82 million to $222 million, according to their ethics disclosures. In 2017, Ms. Trump earned more than $5 million from her namesake fashion brand, according to financial disclosures. In July 2018, Ms. Trump shut down her fashion brand, amid concerns that the family was profiting from the presidency. But she has continued to seek trademarks in China to avoid competitors from profiting off her name, according to a spokeswoman. House Democrats appear to be looking to see if she leveraged her role in government to profit for herself. Among those asked to produce documents that could show foreign-government involvement with Ms. Trump are George Nader, the Lebanese-American businessman who is cooperating with the special counsel’s inquiry; Erik Prince, the founder of the security contractor formerly known as Blackwater; Matthew Calamari, the former Trump bodyguard turned businessman; and Hope Hicks, a former White House communications director. Others were Corey Lewandowski, the former Trump campaign manager; Michael T. Flynn, the former national security adviser, and Allen Weisselberg, the chief financial officer of the Trump Organization. Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, did not respond to a request for comment. Abbe Lowell, a lawyer for Mr. Kushner, declined to comment.    

Supported by By Annie Karni WASHINGTON — Rhona Graff, President Trump’s longtime executive assistant, was asked for documents related to foreign governments providing gifts or money to Ivanka Trump or her businesses. Anatoli Samochornov, the Russian translator who sat in on a meeting between Trump campaign officials and Russian lobbyists, was asked to hand over handwritten notes showing any capital investment from Russian entities to Ms. Trump or her businesses. And Jeff Sessions, the former attorney general, was asked for any documents related to loans or capital investments from Russians directed to Ms. Trump. The president’s elder daughter and top White House adviser was notably absent from a blitz of document requests that the House Judiciary Committee sent earlier this month to 81 individuals and organizations linked to the president. House Democrats have been cautious about targeting Ms. Trump and the other Trump children as they investigate the president, worried about triggering a backlash. But a close read of the document requests suggests they aren’t exactly tiptoeing around the first daughter, either. Of the 81 document requests sent, 52 individuals and organizations were asked to turn over documents related to Ms. Trump or her business interests. White House officials are viewing the document requests as an attempt by the House Judiciary Committee to set the stage for potentially impeaching the president. But the inquiries related to Ms. Trump follow a side track: They ask for documents related to any financial benefit that Ms. Trump or her businesses reaped from foreign and domestic governments after the 2016 election. And they provide a hint of how Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, may be planning to look into potential financial conflicts of interest from Ms. Trump. “She’d be in violation of the Constitution if she was getting any business deals from foreign governments,” said Richard W. Painter, who served as chief ethics lawyer under President George W. Bush. Mr. Painter was referring to the emoluments clause of the Constitution, which prohibits government officials from accepting payments or gifts from foreign governments. “They’re also going after other payments that aren’t emoluments clause violations that we ought to know about that could be creating financial conflicts of interest for her,” Mr. Painter said. “The idea here is to get an awful lot of information we would have had if there had been more detailed disclosures about the entities the Trump family controls.” A spokesman for the House Judiciary Committee declined to comment on the committee’s interest in Ms. Trump. But Mr. Nadler has said that the 81 requests were only the first tranche and that requests to others, including Ms. Trump, could “quite conceivably” follow. The characters working behind the scenes on the document requests also provide a hint of what the Judiciary Committee is looking for. In February, House Democrats retained Norman L. Eisen, a litigator and prominent Trump critic, to begin its inquiries into the president. Mr. Eisen, who played a large role in overseeing the document requests, has also been vocal about potential emoluments clause violations from the president and his family. In December 2016, for instance, he was an author of a report for the Brookings Institution, “The Emoluments Clause: Its text, meaning, and application to Donald J. Trump.” Ms. Trump and her husband, Jared Kushner, never completely divested from their companies even after taking top White House positions. Their income in 2017, from various investments they remained involved in through vehicles and trusts, was $82 million to $222 million, according to their ethics disclosures. In 2017, Ms. Trump earned more than $5 million from her namesake fashion brand, according to financial disclosures. In July 2018, Ms. Trump shut down her fashion brand, amid concerns that the family was profiting from the presidency. But she has continued to seek trademarks in China to avoid competitors from profiting off her name, according to a spokeswoman. House Democrats appear to be looking to see if she leveraged her role in government to profit for herself. Among those asked to produce documents that could show foreign-government involvement with Ms. Trump are George Nader, the Lebanese-American businessman who is cooperating with the special counsel’s inquiry; Erik Prince, the founder of the security contractor formerly known as Blackwater; Matthew Calamari, the former Trump bodyguard turned businessman; and Hope Hicks, a former White House communications director. Others were Corey Lewandowski, the former Trump campaign manager; Michael T. Flynn, the former national security adviser, and Allen Weisselberg, the chief financial officer of the Trump Organization. Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, did not respond to a request for comment. Abbe Lowell, a lawyer for Mr. Kushner, declined to comment.    Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — Special Counsel Robert Mueller's report on his inquiry into Russia's role in the 2016 U.S. election provided extensive details on President Donald Trump's efforts to thwart the probe, giving Democrats plenty of political ammunition against the Republican but no consensus on how to use it. Mueller's 448-page report, the product of a 22-month investigation, built a broad case that Trump had committed obstruction of justice but stopped short of concluding he had committed a crime, although it did not exonerate him. Mueller noted Congress has the power to address whether Trump violated the law, and Democrats quickly vowed to steam ahead with congressional investigations of the president. But party leaders played down talk of impeachment just 18 months before the 2020 presidential election, even as some prominent members of the party's progressive wing, most notably U.S. Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, promised to push the idea. "Many know I take no pleasure in discussions of impeachment. I didn’t campaign on it, & rarely discuss it unprompted," she said on Twitter. "But the report squarely puts this on our doorstep." Representative Doug Collins, the top Republican on the House Judiciary Committee, said on Twitter: "There seems to be some confusion ... This isn’t a matter of legal interpretation; it’s reading comprehension. The report doesn’t say Congress should investigate obstruction now. It says Congress can make laws about obstruction under Article I powers." Many of the report's findings are certain to be repeated on the campaign trail as Democrats make their case against Trump's re-election, although Democratic presidential candidates were cautious in responding on Thursday. Mueller's report noted "numerous links" between the Russian government and Trump's campaign and said the president's team "expected it would benefit electorally from information stolen and released through Russian efforts," referring to hacked Democratic emails.  But Mueller, a former FBI director, concluded there was not enough evidence to establish that Trump's campaign engaged in a criminal conspiracy with Moscow. After the report's release, Trump appeared to be in a celebratory mood. Trump, having long described Mueller's investigation as a "witch hunt," on Thursday night told a crowd of well wishers in Florida where he will spend the weekend: "Game over folks, now it's back to work." The report, with some portions blacked out to protect sensitive information, revealed details of how Trump tried to force Mueller's ouster, directed members of his administration to publicly vouch for his innocence and dangled a pardon to a former aide to try to prevent him from cooperating with the special counsel. "The President's efforts to influence the investigation were mostly unsuccessful, but that is largely because the persons who surrounded the President declined to carry out orders or accede to his requests," the report stated.  The report said that when former Attorney General Jeff Sessions told Trump in May 2017 that the Justice Department was appointing a special counsel to look into allegations that his campaign colluded with Russia, Trump slumped back in his chair and said, "Oh my God. This is terrible. This is the end of my presidency. I'm fucked." Attorney General William Barr told a news conference Mueller had detailed "10 episodes involving the president and discusses potential legal theories for connecting these actions to elements of an obstruction offense." Barr concluded last month after receiving a confidential copy of Mueller's report that Trump had not actually committed a crime. IMPEACHMENT UNLIKELY Any impeachment effort would start in the Democratic-led House of Representatives, but Trump's removal would require the support of the Republican-led Senate - an unlikely outcome. The Democratic chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, Jerrold Nadler, said he would issue subpoenas to obtain the unredacted Mueller report and asked Mueller to testify before the panel by May 23. Nadler told reporters in New York that Mueller probably wrote the report with the intent of providing Congress a road map for future action, but the congressman said it was too early to talk about impeachment. "Based on what we have seen to date, going forward on impeachment is not worthwhile at this point. Very frankly, there is an election in 18 months and the American people will make a judgment," House Democratic leader Steny Hoyer told CNN. The inquiry laid bare what the special counsel and U.S. intelligence agencies have described as a Russian campaign of hacking and propaganda to sow discord in the United States, denigrate 2016 Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton and boost Trump, the Kremlin's preferred candidate. Russia has denied election interference. The report said Mueller accepted the longstanding Justice Department view that a sitting president cannot be indicted on criminal charges, while still recognizing that a president can be criminally investigated. In analyzing whether Trump obstructed justice, Mueller looked at a series of actions by Trump, including his attempts to remove Mueller and limit the scope of his probe and efforts to prevent the public from knowing about a June 2016 meeting at Trump Tower in New York between senior campaign officials and Russians. In June 2017, Trump directed White House counsel Don McGahn to tell the Justice Department's No. 2 official, Rod Rosenstein, that Mueller had conflicts of interest and must be removed, the report said. McGahn did not carry out the order. McGahn was home on a Saturday that month when Trump called him at least twice. "You gotta do this. You gotta call Rod," McGahn recalled the president as saying, according to the report. House Judiciary Democrat Jamie Raskin pointed to Trump's effort to get McGahn to fire Mueller and then lie about being told to do so as an area of interest for lawmakers, and said McGahn and former Attorney General Jeff Sessions could be valuable witnesses as the committee moves forward.  (Reporting by Sarah N. Lynch and Andy Sullivan; additional reporting by Steve Holland, Eric Beech and David Morgan; writing by John Whitesides; editing by Grant McCool)

Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — Special Counsel Robert Mueller's report on his inquiry into Russia's role in the 2016 U.S. election provided extensive details on President Donald Trump's efforts to thwart the probe, giving Democrats plenty of political ammunition against the Republican but no consensus on how to use it. Mueller's 448-page report, the product of a 22-month investigation, built a broad case that Trump had committed obstruction of justice but stopped short of concluding he had committed a crime, although it did not exonerate him. Mueller noted Congress has the power to address whether Trump violated the law, and Democrats quickly vowed to steam ahead with congressional investigations of the president. But party leaders played down talk of impeachment just 18 months before the 2020 presidential election, even as some prominent members of the party's progressive wing, most notably U.S. Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, promised to push the idea. "Many know I take no pleasure in discussions of impeachment. I didn’t campaign on it, & rarely discuss it unprompted," she said on Twitter. "But the report squarely puts this on our doorstep." Representative Doug Collins, the top Republican on the House Judiciary Committee, said on Twitter: "There seems to be some confusion ... This isn’t a matter of legal interpretation; it’s reading comprehension. The report doesn’t say Congress should investigate obstruction now. It says Congress can make laws about obstruction under Article I powers." Many of the report's findings are certain to be repeated on the campaign trail as Democrats make their case against Trump's re-election, although Democratic presidential candidates were cautious in responding on Thursday. Mueller's report noted "numerous links" between the Russian government and Trump's campaign and said the president's team "expected it would benefit electorally from information stolen and released through Russian efforts," referring to hacked Democratic emails.  But Mueller, a former FBI director, concluded there was not enough evidence to establish that Trump's campaign engaged in a criminal conspiracy with Moscow. After the report's release, Trump appeared to be in a celebratory mood. Trump, having long described Mueller's investigation as a "witch hunt," on Thursday night told a crowd of well wishers in Florida where he will spend the weekend: "Game over folks, now it's back to work." The report, with some portions blacked out to protect sensitive information, revealed details of how Trump tried to force Mueller's ouster, directed members of his administration to publicly vouch for his innocence and dangled a pardon to a former aide to try to prevent him from cooperating with the special counsel. "The President's efforts to influence the investigation were mostly unsuccessful, but that is largely because the persons who surrounded the President declined to carry out orders or accede to his requests," the report stated.  The report said that when former Attorney General Jeff Sessions told Trump in May 2017 that the Justice Department was appointing a special counsel to look into allegations that his campaign colluded with Russia, Trump slumped back in his chair and said, "Oh my God. This is terrible. This is the end of my presidency. I'm fucked." Attorney General William Barr told a news conference Mueller had detailed "10 episodes involving the president and discusses potential legal theories for connecting these actions to elements of an obstruction offense." Barr concluded last month after receiving a confidential copy of Mueller's report that Trump had not actually committed a crime. IMPEACHMENT UNLIKELY Any impeachment effort would start in the Democratic-led House of Representatives, but Trump's removal would require the support of the Republican-led Senate - an unlikely outcome. The Democratic chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, Jerrold Nadler, said he would issue subpoenas to obtain the unredacted Mueller report and asked Mueller to testify before the panel by May 23. Nadler told reporters in New York that Mueller probably wrote the report with the intent of providing Congress a road map for future action, but the congressman said it was too early to talk about impeachment. "Based on what we have seen to date, going forward on impeachment is not worthwhile at this point. Very frankly, there is an election in 18 months and the American people will make a judgment," House Democratic leader Steny Hoyer told CNN. The inquiry laid bare what the special counsel and U.S. intelligence agencies have described as a Russian campaign of hacking and propaganda to sow discord in the United States, denigrate 2016 Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton and boost Trump, the Kremlin's preferred candidate. Russia has denied election interference. The report said Mueller accepted the longstanding Justice Department view that a sitting president cannot be indicted on criminal charges, while still recognizing that a president can be criminally investigated. In analyzing whether Trump obstructed justice, Mueller looked at a series of actions by Trump, including his attempts to remove Mueller and limit the scope of his probe and efforts to prevent the public from knowing about a June 2016 meeting at Trump Tower in New York between senior campaign officials and Russians. In June 2017, Trump directed White House counsel Don McGahn to tell the Justice Department's No. 2 official, Rod Rosenstein, that Mueller had conflicts of interest and must be removed, the report said. McGahn did not carry out the order. McGahn was home on a Saturday that month when Trump called him at least twice. "You gotta do this. You gotta call Rod," McGahn recalled the president as saying, according to the report. House Judiciary Democrat Jamie Raskin pointed to Trump's effort to get McGahn to fire Mueller and then lie about being told to do so as an area of interest for lawmakers, and said McGahn and former Attorney General Jeff Sessions could be valuable witnesses as the committee moves forward.  (Reporting by Sarah N. Lynch and Andy Sullivan; additional reporting by Steve Holland, Eric Beech and David Morgan; writing by John Whitesides; editing by Grant McCool)Supported by By Benjamin Weiser [What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.] Speaking in a halting, raspy voice, Cesar A. Sayoc Jr., sat in a Manhattan federal courtroom on Thursday and described how he painstakingly assembled homemade pipe bombs that he sent to prominent Democrats, including Hillary Clinton, former President Barack Obama and other critics of President Trump last fall. Each device, Mr. Sayoc said, consisted of a plastic pipe with a digital alarm clock and attached wires. He packed all of them with a potentially deadly mix: powder from fireworks, fertilizer, a pool chemical and glass fragments. Finally, he inserted into each package a photograph of the intended recipient, marked with a red X over the face. Mr. Sayoc, 57, paused his explanation and broke into sobs, finally collecting himself and speaking softly just before he pleaded guilty to the attack. “I know these actions were wrong, and I’m extremely sorry,” he said. It was his first public explanation of the bombing campaign that gripped the nation just before the midterm elections in October. Mr. Sayoc mailed 16 devices to his intended victims around the country, who also included the actor Robert De Niro and CNN. After a four-day manhunt, he was arrested in Florida, where he appeared to be living in a white van plastered with conservative slogans and images. Mr. Sayoc, shackled at the ankles and wearing dark blue jail garb, sat between two defense lawyers as he read his statement in a quiet voice. At one point, he said that he had sent out the devices “with the intent to threaten and intimidate people” and with the intent to “injure property.” But he offered no further description of his motivation and did not expound on any political views. Prosecutors had called his bombing campaign a “domestic terror attack.” Mr. Sayoc pleaded guilty to 65 counts, which included using a weapon of mass destruction and interstate transportation of an explosive. He faces up to life in prison. “Thankfully no one was hurt by these dangerous devices, but his actions left an air of fear and divisiveness in their wake,” said Geoffrey S. Berman, the United States attorney in Manhattan, after the plea. Mr. Sayoc was arrested on Oct. 26 outside an auto-parts store near Fort Lauderdale, Fla. The pro-Trump stickers that covered the nearby van condemned liberals and the news media; one contained an image of Mrs. Clinton under red cross hairs. Mr. Sayoc was originally indicted on charges in connection with five devices sent to victims in Westchester County, a New York City suburb, and Manhattan. The 65 counts to which he pleaded covered all of the devices he sent to victims around the country. He listed for the judge his intended victims. They also included George Soros, a billionaire Democratic donor; John O. Brennan, a former director of the Central Intelligence Agency; former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.; and Representative Maxine Waters, a California Democrat. Mr. Sayoc said the list also included former Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr.; Senator Cory Booker, a New Jersey Democrat; Senator Kamala Harris, a California Democrat; Tom Steyer, a prominent Democratic donor; and James R. Clapper Jr., a former director of national intelligence. The first of the crudely built devices was found in a mailbox at the home of Mr. Soros in Westchester County. More of the devices were intercepted around the country in the tense days that followed. Records from Mr. Sayoc’s phone and laptop showed he had conducted internet research on several of his targets, searching for such phrases as “hilary Clinton hime address,” “address for barack Obama,” and “john brennan wife and kids.” The judge, Jed S. Rakoff of Federal District Court, is expected to sentence Mr. Sayoc on Sept. 12.  Alain Delaquérière contributed research. Follow Benjamin Weiser on Twitter: @BenWeiserNYT    

Supported by By Benjamin Weiser [What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.] Speaking in a halting, raspy voice, Cesar A. Sayoc Jr., sat in a Manhattan federal courtroom on Thursday and described how he painstakingly assembled homemade pipe bombs that he sent to prominent Democrats, including Hillary Clinton, former President Barack Obama and other critics of President Trump last fall. Each device, Mr. Sayoc said, consisted of a plastic pipe with a digital alarm clock and attached wires. He packed all of them with a potentially deadly mix: powder from fireworks, fertilizer, a pool chemical and glass fragments. Finally, he inserted into each package a photograph of the intended recipient, marked with a red X over the face. Mr. Sayoc, 57, paused his explanation and broke into sobs, finally collecting himself and speaking softly just before he pleaded guilty to the attack. “I know these actions were wrong, and I’m extremely sorry,” he said. It was his first public explanation of the bombing campaign that gripped the nation just before the midterm elections in October. Mr. Sayoc mailed 16 devices to his intended victims around the country, who also included the actor Robert De Niro and CNN. After a four-day manhunt, he was arrested in Florida, where he appeared to be living in a white van plastered with conservative slogans and images. Mr. Sayoc, shackled at the ankles and wearing dark blue jail garb, sat between two defense lawyers as he read his statement in a quiet voice. At one point, he said that he had sent out the devices “with the intent to threaten and intimidate people” and with the intent to “injure property.” But he offered no further description of his motivation and did not expound on any political views. Prosecutors had called his bombing campaign a “domestic terror attack.” Mr. Sayoc pleaded guilty to 65 counts, which included using a weapon of mass destruction and interstate transportation of an explosive. He faces up to life in prison. “Thankfully no one was hurt by these dangerous devices, but his actions left an air of fear and divisiveness in their wake,” said Geoffrey S. Berman, the United States attorney in Manhattan, after the plea. Mr. Sayoc was arrested on Oct. 26 outside an auto-parts store near Fort Lauderdale, Fla. The pro-Trump stickers that covered the nearby van condemned liberals and the news media; one contained an image of Mrs. Clinton under red cross hairs. Mr. Sayoc was originally indicted on charges in connection with five devices sent to victims in Westchester County, a New York City suburb, and Manhattan. The 65 counts to which he pleaded covered all of the devices he sent to victims around the country. He listed for the judge his intended victims. They also included George Soros, a billionaire Democratic donor; John O. Brennan, a former director of the Central Intelligence Agency; former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.; and Representative Maxine Waters, a California Democrat. Mr. Sayoc said the list also included former Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr.; Senator Cory Booker, a New Jersey Democrat; Senator Kamala Harris, a California Democrat; Tom Steyer, a prominent Democratic donor; and James R. Clapper Jr., a former director of national intelligence. The first of the crudely built devices was found in a mailbox at the home of Mr. Soros in Westchester County. More of the devices were intercepted around the country in the tense days that followed. Records from Mr. Sayoc’s phone and laptop showed he had conducted internet research on several of his targets, searching for such phrases as “hilary Clinton hime address,” “address for barack Obama,” and “john brennan wife and kids.” The judge, Jed S. Rakoff of Federal District Court, is expected to sentence Mr. Sayoc on Sept. 12.  Alain Delaquérière contributed research. Follow Benjamin Weiser on Twitter: @BenWeiserNYT    Supported by News Analysis By Alexander Burns The debate unfolded over a period of days, on multiple televised stages in different states. There were no direct clashes between the candidates, no traces of personal animus — but a debate it was, the first vivid disputation over policy in the 2020 Democratic presidential primary. The subject, perhaps predictably, was health care. At issue was just how drastically to transform the American system, and how comprehensive the role of government should be. In one camp were a pair of blunt-speaking Midwesterners, Senators Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota and Sherrod Brown of Ohio — both beloved by many liberals, yet both dismissive of fellow Democrats’ promises to create a vast new apparatus of government-backed health care. They endorsed incremental policy changes, like lowering the age of eligibility for Medicare. “It could be a possibility in the future,” Ms. Klobuchar said of single-payer health care, in a CNN town hall on Monday night. “I’m just looking at something that will work now.” On the other side was the party’s most uncompromising economic populist, Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, a self-described democratic socialist who promised nothing short of a revolution in health care with his proposal for “Medicare for all.” He held up Canada and Western Europe as working models for the United States. “If our friends in Scandinavia can provide quality health care to all of their people as a right, for far less than we spend, you tell me why we can’t do it,” Mr. Sanders said in a CBS interview, broadcast on Tuesday morning after he declared his candidacy for president. [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] The political and policy fault lines were familiar ones, but the scale and clarity of the disagreement was new to the 2020 presidential primary, an affair that has thus far unfolded as a contest of splashy campaign rollouts, forceful personalities and overlapping policy wish lists. While the party’s most prominent candidates have differed in their rhetoric and most distinctive legislative proposals — Senator Elizabeth Warren’s wealth tax, or Senator Kamala Harris’s middle-class tax cut — at this early stage they have declined to engage the submerged philosophical rifts between them. Yet the exchanges over health care hinted that those ideological divisions may not stay buried for long: As the Democratic primary field develops and grows, the party is headed for a fuller public conversation about the role of government and the scale of their own ambitions. There have been tentative skirmishes: Ms. Warren and Michael R. Bloomberg, the billionaire former New York City mayor, publicly diverged over the idea of a tax on the country’s largest fortunes. Even before Mr. Sanders entered the race, other candidates drew unsubtle lines separating themselves from his brand of politics: Ms. Warren has branded herself a proud capitalist, and Ms. Harris said emphatically on Monday, “I am not a democratic socialist.” But the debate over health care may be unique in its potency. It mirrors a larger struggle among Democrats over how daring their message ought to be, and whether promising to rapidly expand social-welfare programs is the best way to defeat President Trump. In the past, Democrats have tended to nominate relatively moderate candidates, with even nominees like former President Barack Obama espousing platforms far less radical than the one favored by Mr. Sanders. Polls show that Democratic ideas for expanding government health care are popular, but the key details of a single-payer system can make many voters uneasy. In the debate over single-payer, several prominent Democratic candidates and officials have endorsed some version of “Medicare for all,” a broad slogan that has been applied to a range of policies that would expand government-backed health care. In the purest conception, favored by Mr. Sanders, it involves the creation of a multitrillion dollar government health plan through which every American would obtain essential coverage. That approach, which is typical across most of the developed world, would guarantee universal coverage for all Americans and reduce health care costs for many, but it has long been seen as politically controversial because it would require so much public funding and would force many people who like their existing health insurance to change plans. Jared Bernstein, a liberal economist who served in the Obama administration, said the distinctions between Democratic candidates had less to do with where they want to take the country than with how — and how quickly — they aim to get there. Their core priorities were largely identical, Mr. Bernstein said. “The candidates who are trying to carve out more moderate positions are essentially saying, ‘I think we get from where we are to where we need to go through incremental steps.’ The others are saying, ‘No, we’re into giant steps,’” Mr. Bernstein said. On health care in particular, he said, “The real difference between the candidates on this is whether you believe we get where we need to go on health care through incremental change, or by leapfrogging to something much more universal than we have.” That Mr. Sanders would be a champion of giant steps is no surprise. His insurgent campaign in 2016 exploded the bounds of traditional debate in Democratic politics and thrust once-remote ideas — like European-style health care and free tuition at public colleges — to the center of debate on the left. He has shown every sign so far of approaching 2020 in a similar spirit, and describes other proposed policy solutions as inadequate half measures. In his announcement interview, Mr. Sanders offered scant acknowledgment of the practical and political obstacles to implementing his vision. He cast all impediments as the products of a corrupt political system that could be overcome through a mass mobilization of the popular will. [Read about Bernie Sanders’s entrance into the 2020 race, and where he stands on the issues.] “You cannot make those changes unless there is a movement of people who make the Congress and the president an offer they cannot refuse,” Mr. Sanders said. Invoking the watchword of his 2016 candidacy, Mr. Sanders said it was time to “complete that revolution” by enacting his health care and education policies. To him and his supporters, it is an article of faith that Democrats lost the 2016 election partly because Hillary Clinton failed to offer a vision of economic justice that might have captured some of the indignant energy of Mr. Trump’s campaign. While throngs of Democrats have endorsed “Medicare for all” as a campaign slogan, Mr. Sanders has been nearly alone among the presidential candidates in demanding an immediate-term, full-blown version of the idea. Most of his leading rivals, like Ms. Warren and Senator Cory Booker, have backed the concept as an eventual goal as they pursue more pragmatic alternatives in the near term. (Ms. Harris endorsed eliminating private health insurance in a CNN town hall, but has also stressed her support for more modest ways of expanding government-backed care.) The leading Democratic candidates have given similarly hedged answers on the policy program known as the Green New Deal, a sweeping agenda to eliminate carbon emissions and guarantee full employment. Ms. Klobuchar on Monday called the proposals “aspirational.” If Mr. Sanders has given a resounding “yes” on single-payer, and most Democrats have offered versions of “yes, but,” Mr. Brown and Ms. Klobuchar stand out for their willingness to say “no.” Both have long been skeptics of single-payer health care, viewing it as impractical and disruptive. They are both closely attuned to the sensibilities of the moderate Midwest, a region that delivered the presidency to Mr. Trump and that Democrats are determined to recapture in 2020. Mr. Brown, who has been visiting early primary states but has not decided whether to run for president, kicked off the long-distance debate over the weekend, arguing on CNN that pushing for single-payer would be a mistake. “I want to help people now, and helping people now is building on the Affordable Care Act,” said Mr. Brown, a liberal populist whose diagnosis of the country’s economic problems resembles Mr. Sanders’s in important ways. transcript Hosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Rachel Quester and Andy Mills, and edited by Lisa Tobin Democratic candidates are joining the 2020 presidential race with different answers to the same central question: What will it take to win against Donald Trump? michael barbaro From The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today: Bernie Sanders enters a crowded field of Democratic presidential candidates. How those candidates, who agree on so many social issues, are fighting to distinguish themselves in order to beat President Trump. It’s Wednesday, February 20. archived recording (elizabeth warren) Good morning, Lawrence! [CHEERING] I stand here today to declare that I am a candidate for president of the United States of America. archived recording (kamala harris) I stand before you today to announce my candidacy for president of the United States. archived recording (amy klobuchar) To announce my candidacy for president of the United States. archived recording (kirsten gillibrand) I’m filing an exploratory committee for president of the United States tonight! archived recording (cory booker) I’m running for president because I want to address these issues. archived recording (bernie sanders) Hi, I’m Bernie Sanders. I’m running for president. And I’m asking you today to be part of an unprecedented grassroots campaign — michael barbaro And we are going to do this again. Alex Burns, what does Bernie Sanders’s announcement mean for the 2020 presidential race? alexander burns Well, it really means that now we have a full spectrum of Democratic candidates running, from sort of quasi-Marxist to avowedly moderate. That might sound like we now have this messy, shapeless field, but in reality, they are all basically debating the same central question, which is: Who has what it takes to beat Donald Trump? All the candidates, all the voters from different wings of the party basically agree that that is the overarching theme of this primary. They just all have different answers to that basic question. michael barbaro And as these Democratic candidates debate visions for beating Trump, I have to imagine that is a calculation about moving left and embracing kind of the politics of identity or tacking to the right to go after Trump voters, moderates. alexander burns Well, you’re sort of half-right there that there is a debate about whether the party needs to move to the left or to the center, but the fault lines are almost entirely about the economy. Then when it comes to matters of identity and different social justice issues, there is very, very little disagreement across the field. When you think about the issues that are now just consensus positions in the Democratic Party — support for gay marriage, support for abortion rights, support for very restrictive gun control laws — I don’t know that you would have had a field. We didn’t have a field 10 years ago, 15, 20 years ago, where there was basically no daylight on any of those issues — that the party is a liberal party on cultural matters, and the candidates themselves, obviously, have very different identities, but in terms of where they are on those issues, there’s not a great deal of daylight. When it comes to stuff like health care and taxation and financial regulation, that’s when you start to see the differences really open up. That right now is where the Democratic debate is going to focus. michael barbaro I guess I’m curious — why is there such a wide spectrum on economic issues where there isn’t when it comes to social issues? alexander burns Well, this is going to get very weighty very fast. But I think you can look back over the last decade since the Great Recession and see just an enormous opening up of the range of economic debate in American politics — that in 1992 or 2000 you didn’t have candidates running for the Democratic nomination for president calling themselves democratic socialist, or calling for just a colossal rewriting of the American economy. Now you have most candidates not calling themselves a democratic socialist, but calling for really transformational change of some kind or another. I think you can find the roots to that in the recession. I think you can find the roots to that in Bernie Sanders in 2015. And finally, I think you can see the Trump presidency just as an enormously disruptive force in this space. I think Democrats, liberal Democrats, see how the president blew up the debate around economics on the Republican side, especially on matters like trade and just the nature of the global economy, and there’s no reason now for folks on the left not to do the same thing on their side. michael barbaro It’s kind of their turn to be incredibly disruptive when it comes to economics. alexander burns Right. And they don’t have on the right a mainstream, traditional Republican president who they worry will make them look outside the mainstream. michael barbaro Right. alexander burns That if you are campaigning against a President Jeb Bush or a President Marco Rubio who passed a very traditional, modest, middle-class tax cut and who says the right things about economic inequality and pursues sort of modest tinkering to Nafta, I think Democrats probably do feel a little bit more trepidation about campaigning on a really daring, disruptive, relatively far-left agenda. That’s not the mood of the Democratic Party right now. michael barbaro Right. Instead you have a candidate on the right, an almost assured nominee, who deliberately provokes trade wars and tears up almost every major economic agreement we have signed as a country in the last 25 years. alexander burns Right. So the Democrats aren’t looking at Donald Trump and saying, we need to really make sure that we reassure the business community and make sure that we don’t make folks on the center right nervous, because the president does those things already. So I think from Democrats close to the middle to Democrats well to the left, there is just this universal feeling that they’ve got to go big on an economic vision in some way. michael barbaro So let’s start off at the most disruptive end of the economic spectrum here. archived recording (bernie sanders) Hi. I’m Bernie Sanders. I’m running for president. michael barbaro I imagine that that is Bernie Sanders, right? Why does he believe that he is best positioned to beat President Trump? archived recording (bernie sanders) Our campaign is about taking on the powerful special interests that dominate our economic and political life. alexander burns Well, the Sanders theory of the case in 2019 is very similar to what his theory was in 2015 and 2016, which is that if you’re running against a candidate and Donald Trump in a political party like the Republican Party that is defined in the eyes of many voters as a party of great wealth and a party that is aligned with powerful corporate interests, you run right at that great wealth and those powerful corporate interests. And — archived recording (bernie sanders) We are the wealthiest nation in the history of the world. We should not have a grotesque level of wealth inequality in which three billionaires now own more wealth than the bottom half of the country. alexander burns Part of what has won him the passionate following he has is his directness in marshaling people’s sense of political alienation and economic dissatisfaction in a really class-oriented way. archived recording (bernie sanders) Our campaign is about creating a government and economy that works for the many, not just the few. alexander burns He talks about trying to bring together voters who are economically distressed across lines of geography and culture and race in a way that other candidates don’t necessarily. archived recording (bernie sanders) I am running for president because the time is long overdue for the United States to join every other major country on earth and guarantee health care to all people as a right, not a privilege, through a “Medicare for all” single-payer program. alexander burns You know, his theory is that if you talk about giving people government-guaranteed health care, that appeals as much to an African-American woman in Los Angeles as it does to a white coal miner in West Virginia. That theory has not really been tested the way Bernie Sanders would like to test it. There is very, very substantial evidence from the last few rounds of national elections that culture is such a dominant force in American elections that I think it does cast some doubt on whether that would work in a general election, because — archived recording (bernie sanders) Together, you and I and our 2016 campaign began the political revolution. Now it is time to complete that revolution and implement the vision that we fought for. alexander burns You know, he’s talking about revolution. That’s the word he uses, and he uses it for a reason. michael barbaro So the question here is, can he win a race that’s all about class? And will that work? Can he make it all about the 1 percent versus the 99 percent and actually succeed? alexander burns Right. And the question is, does the 99 percent see themselves as a coherent entity? michael barbaro Right. alexander burns Or do other kinds of social and cultural divisions make the aspiration to a cross-racial national workers’ campaign just sort of a fantasy? michael barbaro Right. We’d probably know if there was a 99 percent club of voters that saw itself as one entity waiting to be tapped. alexander burns Anytime a politician tells you that 80 percent of people agree strongly with their position on something as sensitive as health care or the bedrock nature of the American economy. michael barbaro They’re estimating. alexander burns They’re estimating. michael barbaro So who’s next on this Democratic spectrum, remembering that we’re going kind of left to less left? alexander burns Well, a lot of these people are tricky to categorize ideologically. But I think the person you would have to put closest to Bernie Sanders but with some very, very significant philosophical and personal modifications is Elizabeth Warren. archived recording (elizabeth warren) The middle-class squeeze is real, and millions of families can barely breathe. It is not right. [CHEERING] alexander burns She’s a candidate who is running a populist campaign. archived recording (elizabeth warren) Hardworking people are up against a small group that holds far too much power, not just in our economy but also in our democracy. alexander burns She is targeting banks, insurance companies, pharmaceutical companies. archived recording (elizabeth warren) And when giant corporations and their leaders cheat their customers, stomp out their competitors and rob their workers, let’s prosecute them. [CHEERING] alexander burns But unlike Bernie Sanders, she’s very explicit about calling herself a capitalist. archived recording (elizabeth warren) We can’t afford just to tinker around the edges, a tax credit here, a regulation there. Our fight is for big structural change. alexander burns That is a huge tonal and substantive difference from Bernie Sanders. She’s not talking about blowing up and incinerating the entire system and rebuilding it from the ground up. She is talking about using all the levers of power in government to take control of a system that she argues is out of control. michael barbaro Right. So cleaning it up, not blowing it up. alexander burns Right. archived recording (elizabeth warren) We need to change the rules to clean up Washington. End the corruption. michael barbaro So in that sense she would be appealing to the Trump voters’ same desire to drain the swamp. alexander burns If there is a drain-the-swamp candidate in the Democratic primary, it is Elizabeth Warren. Corruption is the central theme of her campaign as much as anything else. archived recording (elizabeth warren) I have proposed the strongest and most comprehensive anti-corruption laws since Watergate. alexander burns But the basic political logic of a Warren campaign is not all that different from the logic of a Sanders campaign. It’s about harnessing alienation with the political system. It’s about telling people that, yeah, you’re right, the economy is rigged and I’m going to do something very, very drastic about it. archived recording (elizabeth warren) We need to take power in Washington away from the wealthy and well-connected and put it back in the hands of the people, where it belongs. alexander burns Her campaign represents, again, not a Sanders-like rejection of what’s normal, but definitely a rejection of what’s normal. michael barbaro So what is the risk of a Warren-like candidate, if, by your description, she’s kind of a Democratic Trump-like candidate in her attempts to sell herself as a fixer of a broken system? alexander burns There are a couple risks in a Warren candidacy. The biggest one is she is putting, essentially, all her chips on the idea that voters are alienated from the economy and that is going to be the consuming issue for them in this election. It’s a bet that people are not just a little bit dissatisfied with how things are working right now, that they are profoundly dissatisfied and that whatever other issues they may care about, it’s issues about the economy and the power of corporations that matter more than anything else. michael barbaro So her focus may be too narrow. alexander burns Well, we just don’t know what voters are going to care about most a year from now. And in some ways it’s a daring bet, in some ways it’s a very risky bet to think that these core issues that have been the issues that have defined your career are going to be the decisive issues first in the primary, then in the general election. It’s not that she only talks about these issues, but I was in Iowa with her for a day pretty recently, and the balance of themes related to corruption and corporate power versus all other themes in her stump speech — it’s just overwhelmingly lopsided. michael barbaro Who is in the next band over? alexander burns So if you think of Sanders and Warren, who are candidates really preoccupied with economic populism and whose basic campaign bargain is, let’s tax the wealthy and go after corporations in order to create new welfare benefits for other people, you then get into this next band of candidates, and they’re a little bit harder to characterize ideologically. Candidates like Kamala Harris and Kirsten Gillibrand, Cory Booker, these are candidates who are all campaigning as liberals and who have endorsed big liberal goals. archived recording (kamala harris) I am running to declare education is a fundamental right. archived recording (kirsten gillibrand) I believe that health care should be a right and not a privilege. archived recording (cory booker) People in America are losing faith that this nation will work for them. archived recording (kamala harris) And we will guarantee that right with universal pre-K and debt-free college. archived recording (kirsten gillibrand) I believe we should have better public schools, because it shouldn’t matter what block you grow up on. archived recording (cory booker) My record as a mayor, my record as a senator is fighting those interests that are trying to screw people. And when it comes to defending folks, I will be ferocious. alexander burns But they are much more cautious about the way they talk about enacting that change. archived recording What is your solution to ensure that people have access to quality health care at an affordable price? And does that solution involve cutting insurance companies, as we know them, out of the equation? alexander burns We saw this very memorably with Kamala Harris in her first few days as a candidate when she, first, in a CNN event, endorsed getting rid of the private health care system entirely. archived recording (kamala harris) I believe the solution, and I actually feel very strongly about this, is that we need to have Medicare for all. That’s just the bottom line. alexander burns The Bernie Sanders-like position. And then — archived recording Senator Harris is now backtracking a bit on her call to eliminate private health insurers. Her spokesman tells us she is open to more moderate plans that preserve the private health care industry. alexander burns Quickly clarified that she favors any number of ways of getting to universal health care coverage, not necessarily the Bernie Sanders approach. Her signature economic proposal is a big tax cut. archived recording (kamala harris) We will deliver the largest working- and middle-class tax cut in a generation. [CHEERING] alexander burns Targeted at the middle class, paid for by increasing taxes and changing the kinds of taxes that are applied to much wealthier people. archived recording (kamala harris) We’ll pay for it by reversing this administration’s giveaways to the top big corporations and the top 1 percent. [CHEERING] alexander burns That is a much more conventional way of thinking about how you gain credibility on the economy. archived recording (cory booker) Our planet is in peril and we need to be bold. It’s one of the reasons why I signed onto the resolution and co-sponsored the resolution for the Green New Deal. alexander burns I think that once you get to Cory Booker, you’re even a couple clicks closer to the political center. archived recording (cory booker) And there’s a lot of people now that are going back on the Green New Deal. They’re like, oh, it’s impractical, oh, it’s too expensive, oh, it’s all of this. If we used to govern our dreams that way, we would have never gone to the moon. God, that’s impractical. You see that ball in the sky? alexander burns He endorses the Green New Deal as sort of an aspirational goal, but he doesn’t endorse the full program, wouldn’t expect to enact it as president. archived recording (cory booker) And my parents taught me reach for the moon, reach for the stars even if you come up short, at least you’re going to be hovering above the ground. You’ll be soaring, young man. alexander burns He is somebody who you start to hear speaking in more pragmatic terms about simply what he considers possible in a divided government. archived recording (cory booker) And when the planet has been in peril in the past, who came forward to save Earth from the scourge of Nazi and totalitarian regimes? We came forward. michael barbaro I imagine that the idea for this group of Democratic candidates is to appeal to every conceivable voter by seeming pragmatic and flexible, a bit malleable. But I imagine that the risk here is gaining a reputation for being inauthentic, maybe even phony. alexander burns Yeah. The risk is that you end up trying to be all things to all people and being nothing in particular to anybody. And this is a particularly pointed distinction on economic issues and issues related to inequality and corporate power — that if you’re a candidate who talks big on taking on health insurance companies, taking on banks, making sure that the 99 percent start catching up with the 1 percent, people might at some point expect you to propose policy ideas that would actually achieve that outcome. And there’s a great risk in being seen as a candidate who endorses a bunch of very grand liberal goals, and then there’s always a but. michael barbaro Right. I’m thinking, of course, of Hillary Clinton taking Wall Street money while calling for Wall Street reform. alexander burns If there’s one consistent theme we’ve seen in politics over the last few years in both parties, it’s the importance of personal and ideological authenticity. And that is something that Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren obviously have in spades. And once you start to get two candidates who are trying to bridge divides in the party, it just becomes more complicated. If you are Donald Trump, what you’re hoping for is a Democratic candidate who will either be so far left that they cannot appeal to the middle or a candidate who has tied themselves into an ideological pretzel and who you can just ridicule as inauthentic. I don’t think there’s anybody in the Democratic race at this point who has reached that pretzel status, but we will see, especially for these candidates who are trying to straddle the left and the center, who are trying to be both revolutionary and exciting and also non-threatening to voters who are more traditional voters, a long primary is going to test whether the core of who they are really fits that description. michael barbaro So you’re kind of tracking pretzel status. So that leaves us with the actual moderates. And who are they so far? alexander burns Well, right now — archived recording (amy klobuchar) For too long, leaders in Washington have sat on the sidelines while others tried to figure out what to do about the changing economy and its impact on our lives. alexander burns There’s really only one major candidate in the race who is positioning herself very directly as a moderate, and that’s Amy Klobuchar. We have seen her, more than any other candidate, willing to just say no to some of the really big liberal trophy ideas, like “Medicare for all,” like free college. archived recording Yes or no. Would you support free college for all? archived recording (amy klobuchar) No. I am not for free four-year college for all. No. Thank you. alexander burns We have talked about candidates who say yes, but. But she’s a candidate who just says no. archived recording (amy klobuchar) I wish — if I was a magic genie and could give that to everyone, and we could afford it, I would. I’m just trying to find a mix of incentives. alexander burns And we’re going to see whether there is an appetite for that in the Democratic Party, somebody who says, I’m just going to level with you. I’m not going to do that because I don’t think it’s possible. Here are the things I am going to do. archived recording (amy klobuchar) Getting to universal health care and bringing down — bringing down the cost of prescription drugs. alexander burns It’s a bet that voters will reward candor and realism. Look, if you’re Amy Klobuchar, you’re taking a big risk on the idea that voters will accept less if they think that they can get it for sure as opposed to promising them more with some uncertainty about whether it’s achievable. archived recording It is time to organize, time to galvanize, time to take back our democracy. It’s time, America. alexander burns A really significant portion of the Democratic Party self-identifies as moderate — not conservative, but they are suspicious of “Medicare for all.” They are suspicious of some of the really grand transformational promises that they hear from the more liberal candidates. And right now, if you split up the pie on the left between the candidates we’ve talked about, there is a big slice of pie left closer to the political center. And Amy Klobuchar is the only person, with the possible exception of Cory Booker, who’s going right at it. So the space that she’s in could get crowded if suddenly Joe Biden runs and Mike Bloomberg runs and Terry McAuliffe or John Hickenlooper, former governors from Virginia and Colorado, run. michael barbaro Then she won’t be alone. alexander burns That middle space would get real crowded. michael barbaro Alex, more broadly, it feels like the risk here in the Democrats building their message and their platforms around the economy and running against President Trump is that the economy is doing pretty well. Isn’t it possible that in a year or so, if the economy stays doing this well, that voters are going to look around and see all of the Democratic Party promising to blow things up, and they’re going to think to themselves, I don’t want to blow up this system that’s working reasonably well for me? alexander burns It’s entirely possible. And one of the ironies of the race that we’re seeing so far is Donald Trump as kind of a status quo candidate, as a let’s-not-shake-things-up-too-much candidate on the specific issue of the economy. He’s obviously not that kind of candidate or president more generally. But this is also a place where, in some ways, Democrats are taking a lesson from Trump’s candidacy in 2016. I think we all remember when Trump was out there talking about “make America great again” that one of the really big Democratic applause lines was, America is already great. And it turns out that a lot of voters did not agree with that. And the president is counting on that working for him in 2020. michael barbaro So make America’s economy greater could basically be the Democratic Party slogan for 2020? alexander burns Absolutely. The core of the Democratic message in 2020 will almost certainly be about the economy, unless we have some kind of catastrophic intervening event that nobody is hoping for, and because they feel that the economic message is what was missing last time. They all basically agree with each other, and they all basically agree with Hillary Clinton on social and cultural issues that are at the heart of American politics. And they all disagree strongly with Donald Trump on those issues. Where they don’t agree with each other and where the party has not yet found its identity on the national level is on these economic issues. michael barbaro And it’s where they don’t know where the country is. alexander burns It’s where they don’t know where a controlling coalition of voters can be found. They know what it looks like to win a midterm election with an economic message. They know what it looks like to lose a presidential election with a weak economic message. They don’t yet know what it means to put together a winning message on the economy in the Trump era in a presidential race. michael barbaro Alex, thank you very much. alexander burns Thank you. Mr. Brown, who has proposed opening the Medicare program to people as young as 50, suggested that a European-style system would be unsettling for people who “would have their insurance plans canceled and move into a government plan.” Ms. Klobuchar, a more traditional moderate, highlighted a similar set of alternatives to a single-payer system on Monday, including greatly expanding access to the Medicaid program. She also pushed back on Mr. Sanders’s proposal for free four-year college, calling it unaffordable and calling for expanded economic opportunities for people who do not attend college. “If I was a magic genie and could give that to everyone and we could afford it, I would,” Ms. Klobuchar said, underscoring her assessment of the idea’s practicality. In a field stocked with charismatic liberals, there is considerable risk for any candidate who attempts to deflate the grandest hopes of the left. Even voters who do not demand Sanders-like ideological purity could opt for any number of alternatives if they are put off by a reality check of Klobuchar-like bluntness. Yet for Ms. Klobuchar — and Mr. Brown, if he runs — giving unwanted news to the Democratic base may amount to a bet that voters will reward them for their candor. There is some reason to believe that wager might pay off in an election when Democratic voters appear less concerned with ideological litmus tests than with defeating Mr. Trump. Anna Greenberg, a Democratic pollster who is advising another potential 2020 contender, former Gov. John Hickenlooper of Colorado, argued that Democratic voters are open to a range of methods for achieving their social goals, so long as the candidates proposing them are progressive and sincere in their intentions. “The framing of this — that there’s a set of ideologically pure primary voters who have only one idea about how to address climate change or secure affordable universal health care — is just wrong,” Ms. Greenberg said.    

Supported by News Analysis By Alexander Burns The debate unfolded over a period of days, on multiple televised stages in different states. There were no direct clashes between the candidates, no traces of personal animus — but a debate it was, the first vivid disputation over policy in the 2020 Democratic presidential primary. The subject, perhaps predictably, was health care. At issue was just how drastically to transform the American system, and how comprehensive the role of government should be. In one camp were a pair of blunt-speaking Midwesterners, Senators Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota and Sherrod Brown of Ohio — both beloved by many liberals, yet both dismissive of fellow Democrats’ promises to create a vast new apparatus of government-backed health care. They endorsed incremental policy changes, like lowering the age of eligibility for Medicare. “It could be a possibility in the future,” Ms. Klobuchar said of single-payer health care, in a CNN town hall on Monday night. “I’m just looking at something that will work now.” On the other side was the party’s most uncompromising economic populist, Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, a self-described democratic socialist who promised nothing short of a revolution in health care with his proposal for “Medicare for all.” He held up Canada and Western Europe as working models for the United States. “If our friends in Scandinavia can provide quality health care to all of their people as a right, for far less than we spend, you tell me why we can’t do it,” Mr. Sanders said in a CBS interview, broadcast on Tuesday morning after he declared his candidacy for president. [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] The political and policy fault lines were familiar ones, but the scale and clarity of the disagreement was new to the 2020 presidential primary, an affair that has thus far unfolded as a contest of splashy campaign rollouts, forceful personalities and overlapping policy wish lists. While the party’s most prominent candidates have differed in their rhetoric and most distinctive legislative proposals — Senator Elizabeth Warren’s wealth tax, or Senator Kamala Harris’s middle-class tax cut — at this early stage they have declined to engage the submerged philosophical rifts between them. Yet the exchanges over health care hinted that those ideological divisions may not stay buried for long: As the Democratic primary field develops and grows, the party is headed for a fuller public conversation about the role of government and the scale of their own ambitions. There have been tentative skirmishes: Ms. Warren and Michael R. Bloomberg, the billionaire former New York City mayor, publicly diverged over the idea of a tax on the country’s largest fortunes. Even before Mr. Sanders entered the race, other candidates drew unsubtle lines separating themselves from his brand of politics: Ms. Warren has branded herself a proud capitalist, and Ms. Harris said emphatically on Monday, “I am not a democratic socialist.” But the debate over health care may be unique in its potency. It mirrors a larger struggle among Democrats over how daring their message ought to be, and whether promising to rapidly expand social-welfare programs is the best way to defeat President Trump. In the past, Democrats have tended to nominate relatively moderate candidates, with even nominees like former President Barack Obama espousing platforms far less radical than the one favored by Mr. Sanders. Polls show that Democratic ideas for expanding government health care are popular, but the key details of a single-payer system can make many voters uneasy. In the debate over single-payer, several prominent Democratic candidates and officials have endorsed some version of “Medicare for all,” a broad slogan that has been applied to a range of policies that would expand government-backed health care. In the purest conception, favored by Mr. Sanders, it involves the creation of a multitrillion dollar government health plan through which every American would obtain essential coverage. That approach, which is typical across most of the developed world, would guarantee universal coverage for all Americans and reduce health care costs for many, but it has long been seen as politically controversial because it would require so much public funding and would force many people who like their existing health insurance to change plans. Jared Bernstein, a liberal economist who served in the Obama administration, said the distinctions between Democratic candidates had less to do with where they want to take the country than with how — and how quickly — they aim to get there. Their core priorities were largely identical, Mr. Bernstein said. “The candidates who are trying to carve out more moderate positions are essentially saying, ‘I think we get from where we are to where we need to go through incremental steps.’ The others are saying, ‘No, we’re into giant steps,’” Mr. Bernstein said. On health care in particular, he said, “The real difference between the candidates on this is whether you believe we get where we need to go on health care through incremental change, or by leapfrogging to something much more universal than we have.” That Mr. Sanders would be a champion of giant steps is no surprise. His insurgent campaign in 2016 exploded the bounds of traditional debate in Democratic politics and thrust once-remote ideas — like European-style health care and free tuition at public colleges — to the center of debate on the left. He has shown every sign so far of approaching 2020 in a similar spirit, and describes other proposed policy solutions as inadequate half measures. In his announcement interview, Mr. Sanders offered scant acknowledgment of the practical and political obstacles to implementing his vision. He cast all impediments as the products of a corrupt political system that could be overcome through a mass mobilization of the popular will. [Read about Bernie Sanders’s entrance into the 2020 race, and where he stands on the issues.] “You cannot make those changes unless there is a movement of people who make the Congress and the president an offer they cannot refuse,” Mr. Sanders said. Invoking the watchword of his 2016 candidacy, Mr. Sanders said it was time to “complete that revolution” by enacting his health care and education policies. To him and his supporters, it is an article of faith that Democrats lost the 2016 election partly because Hillary Clinton failed to offer a vision of economic justice that might have captured some of the indignant energy of Mr. Trump’s campaign. While throngs of Democrats have endorsed “Medicare for all” as a campaign slogan, Mr. Sanders has been nearly alone among the presidential candidates in demanding an immediate-term, full-blown version of the idea. Most of his leading rivals, like Ms. Warren and Senator Cory Booker, have backed the concept as an eventual goal as they pursue more pragmatic alternatives in the near term. (Ms. Harris endorsed eliminating private health insurance in a CNN town hall, but has also stressed her support for more modest ways of expanding government-backed care.) The leading Democratic candidates have given similarly hedged answers on the policy program known as the Green New Deal, a sweeping agenda to eliminate carbon emissions and guarantee full employment. Ms. Klobuchar on Monday called the proposals “aspirational.” If Mr. Sanders has given a resounding “yes” on single-payer, and most Democrats have offered versions of “yes, but,” Mr. Brown and Ms. Klobuchar stand out for their willingness to say “no.” Both have long been skeptics of single-payer health care, viewing it as impractical and disruptive. They are both closely attuned to the sensibilities of the moderate Midwest, a region that delivered the presidency to Mr. Trump and that Democrats are determined to recapture in 2020. Mr. Brown, who has been visiting early primary states but has not decided whether to run for president, kicked off the long-distance debate over the weekend, arguing on CNN that pushing for single-payer would be a mistake. “I want to help people now, and helping people now is building on the Affordable Care Act,” said Mr. Brown, a liberal populist whose diagnosis of the country’s economic problems resembles Mr. Sanders’s in important ways. transcript Hosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Rachel Quester and Andy Mills, and edited by Lisa Tobin Democratic candidates are joining the 2020 presidential race with different answers to the same central question: What will it take to win against Donald Trump? michael barbaro From The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today: Bernie Sanders enters a crowded field of Democratic presidential candidates. How those candidates, who agree on so many social issues, are fighting to distinguish themselves in order to beat President Trump. It’s Wednesday, February 20. archived recording (elizabeth warren) Good morning, Lawrence! [CHEERING] I stand here today to declare that I am a candidate for president of the United States of America. archived recording (kamala harris) I stand before you today to announce my candidacy for president of the United States. archived recording (amy klobuchar) To announce my candidacy for president of the United States. archived recording (kirsten gillibrand) I’m filing an exploratory committee for president of the United States tonight! archived recording (cory booker) I’m running for president because I want to address these issues. archived recording (bernie sanders) Hi, I’m Bernie Sanders. I’m running for president. And I’m asking you today to be part of an unprecedented grassroots campaign — michael barbaro And we are going to do this again. Alex Burns, what does Bernie Sanders’s announcement mean for the 2020 presidential race? alexander burns Well, it really means that now we have a full spectrum of Democratic candidates running, from sort of quasi-Marxist to avowedly moderate. That might sound like we now have this messy, shapeless field, but in reality, they are all basically debating the same central question, which is: Who has what it takes to beat Donald Trump? All the candidates, all the voters from different wings of the party basically agree that that is the overarching theme of this primary. They just all have different answers to that basic question. michael barbaro And as these Democratic candidates debate visions for beating Trump, I have to imagine that is a calculation about moving left and embracing kind of the politics of identity or tacking to the right to go after Trump voters, moderates. alexander burns Well, you’re sort of half-right there that there is a debate about whether the party needs to move to the left or to the center, but the fault lines are almost entirely about the economy. Then when it comes to matters of identity and different social justice issues, there is very, very little disagreement across the field. When you think about the issues that are now just consensus positions in the Democratic Party — support for gay marriage, support for abortion rights, support for very restrictive gun control laws — I don’t know that you would have had a field. We didn’t have a field 10 years ago, 15, 20 years ago, where there was basically no daylight on any of those issues — that the party is a liberal party on cultural matters, and the candidates themselves, obviously, have very different identities, but in terms of where they are on those issues, there’s not a great deal of daylight. When it comes to stuff like health care and taxation and financial regulation, that’s when you start to see the differences really open up. That right now is where the Democratic debate is going to focus. michael barbaro I guess I’m curious — why is there such a wide spectrum on economic issues where there isn’t when it comes to social issues? alexander burns Well, this is going to get very weighty very fast. But I think you can look back over the last decade since the Great Recession and see just an enormous opening up of the range of economic debate in American politics — that in 1992 or 2000 you didn’t have candidates running for the Democratic nomination for president calling themselves democratic socialist, or calling for just a colossal rewriting of the American economy. Now you have most candidates not calling themselves a democratic socialist, but calling for really transformational change of some kind or another. I think you can find the roots to that in the recession. I think you can find the roots to that in Bernie Sanders in 2015. And finally, I think you can see the Trump presidency just as an enormously disruptive force in this space. I think Democrats, liberal Democrats, see how the president blew up the debate around economics on the Republican side, especially on matters like trade and just the nature of the global economy, and there’s no reason now for folks on the left not to do the same thing on their side. michael barbaro It’s kind of their turn to be incredibly disruptive when it comes to economics. alexander burns Right. And they don’t have on the right a mainstream, traditional Republican president who they worry will make them look outside the mainstream. michael barbaro Right. alexander burns That if you are campaigning against a President Jeb Bush or a President Marco Rubio who passed a very traditional, modest, middle-class tax cut and who says the right things about economic inequality and pursues sort of modest tinkering to Nafta, I think Democrats probably do feel a little bit more trepidation about campaigning on a really daring, disruptive, relatively far-left agenda. That’s not the mood of the Democratic Party right now. michael barbaro Right. Instead you have a candidate on the right, an almost assured nominee, who deliberately provokes trade wars and tears up almost every major economic agreement we have signed as a country in the last 25 years. alexander burns Right. So the Democrats aren’t looking at Donald Trump and saying, we need to really make sure that we reassure the business community and make sure that we don’t make folks on the center right nervous, because the president does those things already. So I think from Democrats close to the middle to Democrats well to the left, there is just this universal feeling that they’ve got to go big on an economic vision in some way. michael barbaro So let’s start off at the most disruptive end of the economic spectrum here. archived recording (bernie sanders) Hi. I’m Bernie Sanders. I’m running for president. michael barbaro I imagine that that is Bernie Sanders, right? Why does he believe that he is best positioned to beat President Trump? archived recording (bernie sanders) Our campaign is about taking on the powerful special interests that dominate our economic and political life. alexander burns Well, the Sanders theory of the case in 2019 is very similar to what his theory was in 2015 and 2016, which is that if you’re running against a candidate and Donald Trump in a political party like the Republican Party that is defined in the eyes of many voters as a party of great wealth and a party that is aligned with powerful corporate interests, you run right at that great wealth and those powerful corporate interests. And — archived recording (bernie sanders) We are the wealthiest nation in the history of the world. We should not have a grotesque level of wealth inequality in which three billionaires now own more wealth than the bottom half of the country. alexander burns Part of what has won him the passionate following he has is his directness in marshaling people’s sense of political alienation and economic dissatisfaction in a really class-oriented way. archived recording (bernie sanders) Our campaign is about creating a government and economy that works for the many, not just the few. alexander burns He talks about trying to bring together voters who are economically distressed across lines of geography and culture and race in a way that other candidates don’t necessarily. archived recording (bernie sanders) I am running for president because the time is long overdue for the United States to join every other major country on earth and guarantee health care to all people as a right, not a privilege, through a “Medicare for all” single-payer program. alexander burns You know, his theory is that if you talk about giving people government-guaranteed health care, that appeals as much to an African-American woman in Los Angeles as it does to a white coal miner in West Virginia. That theory has not really been tested the way Bernie Sanders would like to test it. There is very, very substantial evidence from the last few rounds of national elections that culture is such a dominant force in American elections that I think it does cast some doubt on whether that would work in a general election, because — archived recording (bernie sanders) Together, you and I and our 2016 campaign began the political revolution. Now it is time to complete that revolution and implement the vision that we fought for. alexander burns You know, he’s talking about revolution. That’s the word he uses, and he uses it for a reason. michael barbaro So the question here is, can he win a race that’s all about class? And will that work? Can he make it all about the 1 percent versus the 99 percent and actually succeed? alexander burns Right. And the question is, does the 99 percent see themselves as a coherent entity? michael barbaro Right. alexander burns Or do other kinds of social and cultural divisions make the aspiration to a cross-racial national workers’ campaign just sort of a fantasy? michael barbaro Right. We’d probably know if there was a 99 percent club of voters that saw itself as one entity waiting to be tapped. alexander burns Anytime a politician tells you that 80 percent of people agree strongly with their position on something as sensitive as health care or the bedrock nature of the American economy. michael barbaro They’re estimating. alexander burns They’re estimating. michael barbaro So who’s next on this Democratic spectrum, remembering that we’re going kind of left to less left? alexander burns Well, a lot of these people are tricky to categorize ideologically. But I think the person you would have to put closest to Bernie Sanders but with some very, very significant philosophical and personal modifications is Elizabeth Warren. archived recording (elizabeth warren) The middle-class squeeze is real, and millions of families can barely breathe. It is not right. [CHEERING] alexander burns She’s a candidate who is running a populist campaign. archived recording (elizabeth warren) Hardworking people are up against a small group that holds far too much power, not just in our economy but also in our democracy. alexander burns She is targeting banks, insurance companies, pharmaceutical companies. archived recording (elizabeth warren) And when giant corporations and their leaders cheat their customers, stomp out their competitors and rob their workers, let’s prosecute them. [CHEERING] alexander burns But unlike Bernie Sanders, she’s very explicit about calling herself a capitalist. archived recording (elizabeth warren) We can’t afford just to tinker around the edges, a tax credit here, a regulation there. Our fight is for big structural change. alexander burns That is a huge tonal and substantive difference from Bernie Sanders. She’s not talking about blowing up and incinerating the entire system and rebuilding it from the ground up. She is talking about using all the levers of power in government to take control of a system that she argues is out of control. michael barbaro Right. So cleaning it up, not blowing it up. alexander burns Right. archived recording (elizabeth warren) We need to change the rules to clean up Washington. End the corruption. michael barbaro So in that sense she would be appealing to the Trump voters’ same desire to drain the swamp. alexander burns If there is a drain-the-swamp candidate in the Democratic primary, it is Elizabeth Warren. Corruption is the central theme of her campaign as much as anything else. archived recording (elizabeth warren) I have proposed the strongest and most comprehensive anti-corruption laws since Watergate. alexander burns But the basic political logic of a Warren campaign is not all that different from the logic of a Sanders campaign. It’s about harnessing alienation with the political system. It’s about telling people that, yeah, you’re right, the economy is rigged and I’m going to do something very, very drastic about it. archived recording (elizabeth warren) We need to take power in Washington away from the wealthy and well-connected and put it back in the hands of the people, where it belongs. alexander burns Her campaign represents, again, not a Sanders-like rejection of what’s normal, but definitely a rejection of what’s normal. michael barbaro So what is the risk of a Warren-like candidate, if, by your description, she’s kind of a Democratic Trump-like candidate in her attempts to sell herself as a fixer of a broken system? alexander burns There are a couple risks in a Warren candidacy. The biggest one is she is putting, essentially, all her chips on the idea that voters are alienated from the economy and that is going to be the consuming issue for them in this election. It’s a bet that people are not just a little bit dissatisfied with how things are working right now, that they are profoundly dissatisfied and that whatever other issues they may care about, it’s issues about the economy and the power of corporations that matter more than anything else. michael barbaro So her focus may be too narrow. alexander burns Well, we just don’t know what voters are going to care about most a year from now. And in some ways it’s a daring bet, in some ways it’s a very risky bet to think that these core issues that have been the issues that have defined your career are going to be the decisive issues first in the primary, then in the general election. It’s not that she only talks about these issues, but I was in Iowa with her for a day pretty recently, and the balance of themes related to corruption and corporate power versus all other themes in her stump speech — it’s just overwhelmingly lopsided. michael barbaro Who is in the next band over? alexander burns So if you think of Sanders and Warren, who are candidates really preoccupied with economic populism and whose basic campaign bargain is, let’s tax the wealthy and go after corporations in order to create new welfare benefits for other people, you then get into this next band of candidates, and they’re a little bit harder to characterize ideologically. Candidates like Kamala Harris and Kirsten Gillibrand, Cory Booker, these are candidates who are all campaigning as liberals and who have endorsed big liberal goals. archived recording (kamala harris) I am running to declare education is a fundamental right. archived recording (kirsten gillibrand) I believe that health care should be a right and not a privilege. archived recording (cory booker) People in America are losing faith that this nation will work for them. archived recording (kamala harris) And we will guarantee that right with universal pre-K and debt-free college. archived recording (kirsten gillibrand) I believe we should have better public schools, because it shouldn’t matter what block you grow up on. archived recording (cory booker) My record as a mayor, my record as a senator is fighting those interests that are trying to screw people. And when it comes to defending folks, I will be ferocious. alexander burns But they are much more cautious about the way they talk about enacting that change. archived recording What is your solution to ensure that people have access to quality health care at an affordable price? And does that solution involve cutting insurance companies, as we know them, out of the equation? alexander burns We saw this very memorably with Kamala Harris in her first few days as a candidate when she, first, in a CNN event, endorsed getting rid of the private health care system entirely. archived recording (kamala harris) I believe the solution, and I actually feel very strongly about this, is that we need to have Medicare for all. That’s just the bottom line. alexander burns The Bernie Sanders-like position. And then — archived recording Senator Harris is now backtracking a bit on her call to eliminate private health insurers. Her spokesman tells us she is open to more moderate plans that preserve the private health care industry. alexander burns Quickly clarified that she favors any number of ways of getting to universal health care coverage, not necessarily the Bernie Sanders approach. Her signature economic proposal is a big tax cut. archived recording (kamala harris) We will deliver the largest working- and middle-class tax cut in a generation. [CHEERING] alexander burns Targeted at the middle class, paid for by increasing taxes and changing the kinds of taxes that are applied to much wealthier people. archived recording (kamala harris) We’ll pay for it by reversing this administration’s giveaways to the top big corporations and the top 1 percent. [CHEERING] alexander burns That is a much more conventional way of thinking about how you gain credibility on the economy. archived recording (cory booker) Our planet is in peril and we need to be bold. It’s one of the reasons why I signed onto the resolution and co-sponsored the resolution for the Green New Deal. alexander burns I think that once you get to Cory Booker, you’re even a couple clicks closer to the political center. archived recording (cory booker) And there’s a lot of people now that are going back on the Green New Deal. They’re like, oh, it’s impractical, oh, it’s too expensive, oh, it’s all of this. If we used to govern our dreams that way, we would have never gone to the moon. God, that’s impractical. You see that ball in the sky? alexander burns He endorses the Green New Deal as sort of an aspirational goal, but he doesn’t endorse the full program, wouldn’t expect to enact it as president. archived recording (cory booker) And my parents taught me reach for the moon, reach for the stars even if you come up short, at least you’re going to be hovering above the ground. You’ll be soaring, young man. alexander burns He is somebody who you start to hear speaking in more pragmatic terms about simply what he considers possible in a divided government. archived recording (cory booker) And when the planet has been in peril in the past, who came forward to save Earth from the scourge of Nazi and totalitarian regimes? We came forward. michael barbaro I imagine that the idea for this group of Democratic candidates is to appeal to every conceivable voter by seeming pragmatic and flexible, a bit malleable. But I imagine that the risk here is gaining a reputation for being inauthentic, maybe even phony. alexander burns Yeah. The risk is that you end up trying to be all things to all people and being nothing in particular to anybody. And this is a particularly pointed distinction on economic issues and issues related to inequality and corporate power — that if you’re a candidate who talks big on taking on health insurance companies, taking on banks, making sure that the 99 percent start catching up with the 1 percent, people might at some point expect you to propose policy ideas that would actually achieve that outcome. And there’s a great risk in being seen as a candidate who endorses a bunch of very grand liberal goals, and then there’s always a but. michael barbaro Right. I’m thinking, of course, of Hillary Clinton taking Wall Street money while calling for Wall Street reform. alexander burns If there’s one consistent theme we’ve seen in politics over the last few years in both parties, it’s the importance of personal and ideological authenticity. And that is something that Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren obviously have in spades. And once you start to get two candidates who are trying to bridge divides in the party, it just becomes more complicated. If you are Donald Trump, what you’re hoping for is a Democratic candidate who will either be so far left that they cannot appeal to the middle or a candidate who has tied themselves into an ideological pretzel and who you can just ridicule as inauthentic. I don’t think there’s anybody in the Democratic race at this point who has reached that pretzel status, but we will see, especially for these candidates who are trying to straddle the left and the center, who are trying to be both revolutionary and exciting and also non-threatening to voters who are more traditional voters, a long primary is going to test whether the core of who they are really fits that description. michael barbaro So you’re kind of tracking pretzel status. So that leaves us with the actual moderates. And who are they so far? alexander burns Well, right now — archived recording (amy klobuchar) For too long, leaders in Washington have sat on the sidelines while others tried to figure out what to do about the changing economy and its impact on our lives. alexander burns There’s really only one major candidate in the race who is positioning herself very directly as a moderate, and that’s Amy Klobuchar. We have seen her, more than any other candidate, willing to just say no to some of the really big liberal trophy ideas, like “Medicare for all,” like free college. archived recording Yes or no. Would you support free college for all? archived recording (amy klobuchar) No. I am not for free four-year college for all. No. Thank you. alexander burns We have talked about candidates who say yes, but. But she’s a candidate who just says no. archived recording (amy klobuchar) I wish — if I was a magic genie and could give that to everyone, and we could afford it, I would. I’m just trying to find a mix of incentives. alexander burns And we’re going to see whether there is an appetite for that in the Democratic Party, somebody who says, I’m just going to level with you. I’m not going to do that because I don’t think it’s possible. Here are the things I am going to do. archived recording (amy klobuchar) Getting to universal health care and bringing down — bringing down the cost of prescription drugs. alexander burns It’s a bet that voters will reward candor and realism. Look, if you’re Amy Klobuchar, you’re taking a big risk on the idea that voters will accept less if they think that they can get it for sure as opposed to promising them more with some uncertainty about whether it’s achievable. archived recording It is time to organize, time to galvanize, time to take back our democracy. It’s time, America. alexander burns A really significant portion of the Democratic Party self-identifies as moderate — not conservative, but they are suspicious of “Medicare for all.” They are suspicious of some of the really grand transformational promises that they hear from the more liberal candidates. And right now, if you split up the pie on the left between the candidates we’ve talked about, there is a big slice of pie left closer to the political center. And Amy Klobuchar is the only person, with the possible exception of Cory Booker, who’s going right at it. So the space that she’s in could get crowded if suddenly Joe Biden runs and Mike Bloomberg runs and Terry McAuliffe or John Hickenlooper, former governors from Virginia and Colorado, run. michael barbaro Then she won’t be alone. alexander burns That middle space would get real crowded. michael barbaro Alex, more broadly, it feels like the risk here in the Democrats building their message and their platforms around the economy and running against President Trump is that the economy is doing pretty well. Isn’t it possible that in a year or so, if the economy stays doing this well, that voters are going to look around and see all of the Democratic Party promising to blow things up, and they’re going to think to themselves, I don’t want to blow up this system that’s working reasonably well for me? alexander burns It’s entirely possible. And one of the ironies of the race that we’re seeing so far is Donald Trump as kind of a status quo candidate, as a let’s-not-shake-things-up-too-much candidate on the specific issue of the economy. He’s obviously not that kind of candidate or president more generally. But this is also a place where, in some ways, Democrats are taking a lesson from Trump’s candidacy in 2016. I think we all remember when Trump was out there talking about “make America great again” that one of the really big Democratic applause lines was, America is already great. And it turns out that a lot of voters did not agree with that. And the president is counting on that working for him in 2020. michael barbaro So make America’s economy greater could basically be the Democratic Party slogan for 2020? alexander burns Absolutely. The core of the Democratic message in 2020 will almost certainly be about the economy, unless we have some kind of catastrophic intervening event that nobody is hoping for, and because they feel that the economic message is what was missing last time. They all basically agree with each other, and they all basically agree with Hillary Clinton on social and cultural issues that are at the heart of American politics. And they all disagree strongly with Donald Trump on those issues. Where they don’t agree with each other and where the party has not yet found its identity on the national level is on these economic issues. michael barbaro And it’s where they don’t know where the country is. alexander burns It’s where they don’t know where a controlling coalition of voters can be found. They know what it looks like to win a midterm election with an economic message. They know what it looks like to lose a presidential election with a weak economic message. They don’t yet know what it means to put together a winning message on the economy in the Trump era in a presidential race. michael barbaro Alex, thank you very much. alexander burns Thank you. Mr. Brown, who has proposed opening the Medicare program to people as young as 50, suggested that a European-style system would be unsettling for people who “would have their insurance plans canceled and move into a government plan.” Ms. Klobuchar, a more traditional moderate, highlighted a similar set of alternatives to a single-payer system on Monday, including greatly expanding access to the Medicaid program. She also pushed back on Mr. Sanders’s proposal for free four-year college, calling it unaffordable and calling for expanded economic opportunities for people who do not attend college. “If I was a magic genie and could give that to everyone and we could afford it, I would,” Ms. Klobuchar said, underscoring her assessment of the idea’s practicality. In a field stocked with charismatic liberals, there is considerable risk for any candidate who attempts to deflate the grandest hopes of the left. Even voters who do not demand Sanders-like ideological purity could opt for any number of alternatives if they are put off by a reality check of Klobuchar-like bluntness. Yet for Ms. Klobuchar — and Mr. Brown, if he runs — giving unwanted news to the Democratic base may amount to a bet that voters will reward them for their candor. There is some reason to believe that wager might pay off in an election when Democratic voters appear less concerned with ideological litmus tests than with defeating Mr. Trump. Anna Greenberg, a Democratic pollster who is advising another potential 2020 contender, former Gov. John Hickenlooper of Colorado, argued that Democratic voters are open to a range of methods for achieving their social goals, so long as the candidates proposing them are progressive and sincere in their intentions. “The framing of this — that there’s a set of ideologically pure primary voters who have only one idea about how to address climate change or secure affordable universal health care — is just wrong,” Ms. Greenberg said.    Supported by By Jonathan Martin WASHINGTON — Several prominent veteran Democrats, alarmed by the party’s drift from its longstanding alignment with Israel, are starting a new political group that will try to counter the rising skepticism on the left toward the Jewish state by supporting lawmakers and candidates in 2020 who stand unwaveringly with the country. With polls showing that liberals and younger voters are increasingly less sympathetic to Israel, and a handful of vocal supporters of Palestinian rights arriving in Congress, the new group — the Democratic Majority for Israel — is planning to wage a campaign to remind elected officials about what they call the party’s shared values and interests with one of America’s strongest allies. “Most Democrats are strongly pro-Israel and we want to keep it that way,” said Mark Mellman, the group’s president and a longtime Democratic pollster. “There are a few discordant voices, but we want to make sure that what’s a very small problem doesn’t metastasize into a bigger problem.” The group, whose board includes former Michigan Gov. Jennifer Granholm and a former Clinton administration housing secretary, Henry Cisneros, will create a political action committee later this year and may engage in Democratic primaries, Mr. Mellman said. They also are planning an “early states project” with the goal of organizing pro-Israel Democrats in the first nominating states to lobby the party’s presidential hopefuls. For many traditional Democratic supporters of Israel, there is a deepening concern that voters in America’s two major political parties appear to be moving apart in how they view the country. As Republican backing for Israel surges thanks to the rise of evangelicals in their coalition and President Trump’s close alignment with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, an increasingly liberal Democratic Party is growing more uneasy with a country they see as an oppressor of a marginalized group, the Palestinians. The shift on Israel reflects the larger Democratic tilt toward a brand of leftist politics that is creating tensions between the party’s old guard and an ascendant progressive wing that has been emboldened by Mr. Trump’s inflammatory politics and the perceived compromises and failures of an earlier generation of moderates. While the overwhelming majority of congressional Democrats are strong supporters of Israel, the party’s pro-Israel wing has been jolted by election of a pair of high-profile freshman, Representatives Ilhan Omar of Minnesota and Rashida Tlaib of Michigan, who support the boycott, divestment and sanctions movement against the country. Ms. Omar was appointed to a seat on the House Foreign Affairs Committee, which drew scorn from Republicans but offers her a prominent perch in the debate over Middle East policy. And Ms. Tlaib drew widespread attention earlier this month when somebody in her office placed a Post-it note that read “Palestine” over Israel on a map in her office. But they are hardly alone among the newer Democratic lawmakers in taking, at least, a more nuanced view of Israel. Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York has called the “occupation of Palestine” a humanitarian crisis, and other progressives like Representative Pramila Jayapal of Washington have not hesitated to criticize Israel’s use of force against Palestinian protesters. According to a survey conducted earlier this month by Pew, the share of liberal Democrats who sympathized more with Israel than Palestinians has plummeted from 33 percent to 19 percent in just three years. “Israel was once seen as much more of the David in the struggle,” Mr. Mellman said. “Now Palestinians are seen as the more put-upon group.” Attempting to confront this new generation of Israel skeptics in Congress, the Democratic Majority for Israel is firing back with statements of support from other, young Democratic lawmakers who support the party’s traditional ties to the Jewish state. “The relationship between the United States and Israel is a special one that is rooted in shared values, an important strategic partnership in the Middle East, perhaps the world’s toughest neighborhood, and a mutual commitment to a lasting two state solution,” said Representative Hakeem Jeffries of New York, the fourth-ranking Democrat and a potential future speaker. “I look forward to working with the Democratic Majority for Israel as it advances the unbreakable US-Israel bond into the future.” Mr. Jeffries could also be one of the first beneficiaries of the new group. If there is an effort to take on Mr. Jeffries in a primary, as has been speculated about, officials close to Mr. Mellman’s group indicate that they would come to his defense. Beyond individual races, the more fundamental challenge pro-Israel Democrats are confronting is that many millennials are growing far more wary of Israel and particularly the Netanyahu government. The Pew poll indicated that while 56 percent of voters over 65 sympathized more with Israel than the Palestinians, only 32 percent of those under the age of 30 who were surveyed said they felt the same way. “My generation sees the occupation and what’s happening in Israel-Palestine as a crisis the same way we do climate change,” said Simone Zimmerman, 28, a co-founder of a progressive group, IfNotNow, that opposes what it calls Israel’s occupation of Palestinian territories. Ms. Zimmerman scorned what she called “the Trump-Netanyahu” alliance and said “too many in the American Jewish establishment and the Democratic establishment have let them off the hook.” To stalwart backers of Israel, such as Representative Eliot Engel of New York, some younger Democrats are simply too far removed from the horrors of the Holocaust and the 1948 creation of the Jewish state. “They have had a different experience than my generation had or that my parents’ generation had,” said Mr. Engel, the chair of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. As for the controversial B.D.S. movement, which until recently few mainstream Democrats would dare embrace, Mr. Mellman said his group was “strongly opposed” to any such measures. But he was also critical of the effort by Senate Republicans to affirm the right of local and state governments to break ties with companies that attempt to boycott or disinvest from Israel (the measure is expected to be passed Wednesday). “We are strongly opposed to using Israel and B.D.S. as some kind of partisan wedge,” he said. Mr. Mellman will be joined at the group by co-chairs Ann Lewis, another veteran Democratic strategist, and Todd Richman, a J.P. Morgan executive and Democratic fund-raiser. They would not say how much they would spend in the 2020 election, but Mr. Mellman said the group has “substantial” financial backing and planned to “be around for years.” If so, they could become a formidable counterweight to the advocacy group J Street, which, while not officially partisan, has sought to nurture support for Democrats who are uncomfortable with aggressively pro-Israel groups like the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, known as Aipac. Some Jewish Democrats have suggested that Mr. Mellman’s group represents a Democratic arm of Aipac, though he said they are “separate and independent.” J Street donated just under $5 million to candidates in the 2018 election and Jeremy Ben-Ami, the group’s president, said they would at least match that in 2020. “The idea that the Democratic Party should just support the Netanyahu government, right or wrong, is out of line with where American Jews are at and where Jewish Democrats are at,” Mr. Ben-Ami said. But Mr. Mellman said Democratic candidates should know there exists “a strong reservoir of support” in the party for a traditionalist stance on Israel. “Our first choice is to educate and persuade,” he said, before vowing: “If there’s a political and intellectual battle to be waged, we’re here to wage it.”   

Supported by By Jonathan Martin WASHINGTON — Several prominent veteran Democrats, alarmed by the party’s drift from its longstanding alignment with Israel, are starting a new political group that will try to counter the rising skepticism on the left toward the Jewish state by supporting lawmakers and candidates in 2020 who stand unwaveringly with the country. With polls showing that liberals and younger voters are increasingly less sympathetic to Israel, and a handful of vocal supporters of Palestinian rights arriving in Congress, the new group — the Democratic Majority for Israel — is planning to wage a campaign to remind elected officials about what they call the party’s shared values and interests with one of America’s strongest allies. “Most Democrats are strongly pro-Israel and we want to keep it that way,” said Mark Mellman, the group’s president and a longtime Democratic pollster. “There are a few discordant voices, but we want to make sure that what’s a very small problem doesn’t metastasize into a bigger problem.” The group, whose board includes former Michigan Gov. Jennifer Granholm and a former Clinton administration housing secretary, Henry Cisneros, will create a political action committee later this year and may engage in Democratic primaries, Mr. Mellman said. They also are planning an “early states project” with the goal of organizing pro-Israel Democrats in the first nominating states to lobby the party’s presidential hopefuls. For many traditional Democratic supporters of Israel, there is a deepening concern that voters in America’s two major political parties appear to be moving apart in how they view the country. As Republican backing for Israel surges thanks to the rise of evangelicals in their coalition and President Trump’s close alignment with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, an increasingly liberal Democratic Party is growing more uneasy with a country they see as an oppressor of a marginalized group, the Palestinians. The shift on Israel reflects the larger Democratic tilt toward a brand of leftist politics that is creating tensions between the party’s old guard and an ascendant progressive wing that has been emboldened by Mr. Trump’s inflammatory politics and the perceived compromises and failures of an earlier generation of moderates. While the overwhelming majority of congressional Democrats are strong supporters of Israel, the party’s pro-Israel wing has been jolted by election of a pair of high-profile freshman, Representatives Ilhan Omar of Minnesota and Rashida Tlaib of Michigan, who support the boycott, divestment and sanctions movement against the country. Ms. Omar was appointed to a seat on the House Foreign Affairs Committee, which drew scorn from Republicans but offers her a prominent perch in the debate over Middle East policy. And Ms. Tlaib drew widespread attention earlier this month when somebody in her office placed a Post-it note that read “Palestine” over Israel on a map in her office. But they are hardly alone among the newer Democratic lawmakers in taking, at least, a more nuanced view of Israel. Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York has called the “occupation of Palestine” a humanitarian crisis, and other progressives like Representative Pramila Jayapal of Washington have not hesitated to criticize Israel’s use of force against Palestinian protesters. According to a survey conducted earlier this month by Pew, the share of liberal Democrats who sympathized more with Israel than Palestinians has plummeted from 33 percent to 19 percent in just three years. “Israel was once seen as much more of the David in the struggle,” Mr. Mellman said. “Now Palestinians are seen as the more put-upon group.” Attempting to confront this new generation of Israel skeptics in Congress, the Democratic Majority for Israel is firing back with statements of support from other, young Democratic lawmakers who support the party’s traditional ties to the Jewish state. “The relationship between the United States and Israel is a special one that is rooted in shared values, an important strategic partnership in the Middle East, perhaps the world’s toughest neighborhood, and a mutual commitment to a lasting two state solution,” said Representative Hakeem Jeffries of New York, the fourth-ranking Democrat and a potential future speaker. “I look forward to working with the Democratic Majority for Israel as it advances the unbreakable US-Israel bond into the future.” Mr. Jeffries could also be one of the first beneficiaries of the new group. If there is an effort to take on Mr. Jeffries in a primary, as has been speculated about, officials close to Mr. Mellman’s group indicate that they would come to his defense. Beyond individual races, the more fundamental challenge pro-Israel Democrats are confronting is that many millennials are growing far more wary of Israel and particularly the Netanyahu government. The Pew poll indicated that while 56 percent of voters over 65 sympathized more with Israel than the Palestinians, only 32 percent of those under the age of 30 who were surveyed said they felt the same way. “My generation sees the occupation and what’s happening in Israel-Palestine as a crisis the same way we do climate change,” said Simone Zimmerman, 28, a co-founder of a progressive group, IfNotNow, that opposes what it calls Israel’s occupation of Palestinian territories. Ms. Zimmerman scorned what she called “the Trump-Netanyahu” alliance and said “too many in the American Jewish establishment and the Democratic establishment have let them off the hook.” To stalwart backers of Israel, such as Representative Eliot Engel of New York, some younger Democrats are simply too far removed from the horrors of the Holocaust and the 1948 creation of the Jewish state. “They have had a different experience than my generation had or that my parents’ generation had,” said Mr. Engel, the chair of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. As for the controversial B.D.S. movement, which until recently few mainstream Democrats would dare embrace, Mr. Mellman said his group was “strongly opposed” to any such measures. But he was also critical of the effort by Senate Republicans to affirm the right of local and state governments to break ties with companies that attempt to boycott or disinvest from Israel (the measure is expected to be passed Wednesday). “We are strongly opposed to using Israel and B.D.S. as some kind of partisan wedge,” he said. Mr. Mellman will be joined at the group by co-chairs Ann Lewis, another veteran Democratic strategist, and Todd Richman, a J.P. Morgan executive and Democratic fund-raiser. They would not say how much they would spend in the 2020 election, but Mr. Mellman said the group has “substantial” financial backing and planned to “be around for years.” If so, they could become a formidable counterweight to the advocacy group J Street, which, while not officially partisan, has sought to nurture support for Democrats who are uncomfortable with aggressively pro-Israel groups like the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, known as Aipac. Some Jewish Democrats have suggested that Mr. Mellman’s group represents a Democratic arm of Aipac, though he said they are “separate and independent.” J Street donated just under $5 million to candidates in the 2018 election and Jeremy Ben-Ami, the group’s president, said they would at least match that in 2020. “The idea that the Democratic Party should just support the Netanyahu government, right or wrong, is out of line with where American Jews are at and where Jewish Democrats are at,” Mr. Ben-Ami said. But Mr. Mellman said Democratic candidates should know there exists “a strong reservoir of support” in the party for a traditionalist stance on Israel. “Our first choice is to educate and persuade,” he said, before vowing: “If there’s a political and intellectual battle to be waged, we’re here to wage it.”   Supported by By Nicholas Fandos WASHINGTON — Top House Democrats, anxiously awaiting the findings of the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, insisted on Sunday that their own investigations must go on regardless of whether the Justice Department accuses President Trump of wrongdoing. Expecting the “principal conclusions” of Mr. Mueller’s 22-month investigation to be made public by Attorney General William P. Barr as soon as Sunday afternoon but lacking any information on its findings, they sought to play down Mr. Mueller’s investigation into Russia’s election interference and possible ties to the Trump campaign as a relatively narrow endeavor that does not relieve Congress of its own oversight responsibility. “The job of Congress is much broader than the job of special counsel,” Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, the House Judiciary Committee chairman, said on “Fox News Sunday.” “The special counsel was looking and can only look for crimes. We have to protect the rule of law. We have to look for abuses of power. We have to look for obstruction of justice. We have to look for corruption.” Mr. Nadler said that Congress must see Mr. Mueller’s full report and evidence — not just a summary from Mr. Barr — and that he would use a subpoena and take the fight to the Supreme Court if necessary to secure those. Mr. Nadler, whose committee would oversee a potential impeachment of the president, said it was “way too early” to discuss such impeachment. Republicans, meanwhile, were eager to portray Democrats as already disappointed by the mystery report and poised to overreach their authority in a desperate effort to damage Mr. Trump politically. Citing a Justice Department comment that there would be no additional indictments from the special counsel, Representative Doug Collins of Georgia, Mr. Nadler’s Republican counterpart on the Judiciary Committee, said it was increasingly apparent that the president had been “proved right.” “Let’s be honest with the facts and say probably what the facts show is there was no collusion,” Mr. Collins said on Fox. “Let’s go to the logical choice, that nothing happened.” Mr. Collins also threw cold water on Democrats’ demands for Mr. Mueller’s evidence, saying it was “not the Department of Justice’s job” to turn over material, especially classified and grand jury information, “to go off on a purely partisan investigation to lead toward impeachment.” It was a marked turnabout from Republicans’ position when they were in charge and demanding access to documents for their investigations of F.B.I. and Justice Department conduct. Other Republicans took different tracks. Representative Devin Nunes of California, the top Republican on the Intelligence Committee and one of the leading critics of the Mueller investigation, said whatever had been filed was a “partisan document.” “We can just burn it up,” he said on “Fox and Friends.” He called instead for continued investigation of the F.B.I.’s surveillance of a former Trump campaign aide, Carter Page, and its handling of an unverified dossier assembled by a former British spy laying out a purported conspiracy between Trump associates and Russia. Neither side, to be clear, is in a position to know. Mr. Mueller delivered his full report to Mr. Barr on Friday and its contents have been shared only with a small group of top officials at the Justice Department who spent Friday night, Saturday and early Sunday scouring it to produce a document to share with Congress. Hogan Gidley, a White House spokesman, said that as of Sunday morning, the president’s team had not been briefed on the report. Mr. Trump, spending the weekend at his Palm Beach, Fla., club, on Sunday continued to keep an uncharacteristic silence over the investigation’s conclusion. Tweeting for the first time since Mr. Mueller handed in his report Friday, Mr. Trump told his 59 million followers, “Good Morning, Have A Great Day!” Mr. Mueller himself was spotted attending Sunday services at St. John’s Church just steps from the White House. Rumors have blossomed in the information vacuum, and critics and defenders of the president have increasingly traded shots over what they think the report will say. In a tweet on Saturday, Rudolph W. Giuliani, Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer, asked Representative Adam B. Schiff of California, the chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, to apologize for saying there was public evidence of collusion between Mr. Trump’s team and Russia. “I hope he will apologize for his mistake,” Mr. Giuliani wrote. “We all make them. The real virtue is to admit it. It would help us heal.” But Mr. Schiff, appearing on ABC’s “This Week,” was prepared to make no such recompense. Instead, he said his committee had seen evidence of collusion — in public reporting and the special counsel’s indictments. “Mr. Giuliani would be wise to do something he has rarely done, and that is wait till we see the facts,” Mr. Schiff said. Chris Cameron contributed reporting. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.   

Supported by By Nicholas Fandos WASHINGTON — Top House Democrats, anxiously awaiting the findings of the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, insisted on Sunday that their own investigations must go on regardless of whether the Justice Department accuses President Trump of wrongdoing. Expecting the “principal conclusions” of Mr. Mueller’s 22-month investigation to be made public by Attorney General William P. Barr as soon as Sunday afternoon but lacking any information on its findings, they sought to play down Mr. Mueller’s investigation into Russia’s election interference and possible ties to the Trump campaign as a relatively narrow endeavor that does not relieve Congress of its own oversight responsibility. “The job of Congress is much broader than the job of special counsel,” Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, the House Judiciary Committee chairman, said on “Fox News Sunday.” “The special counsel was looking and can only look for crimes. We have to protect the rule of law. We have to look for abuses of power. We have to look for obstruction of justice. We have to look for corruption.” Mr. Nadler said that Congress must see Mr. Mueller’s full report and evidence — not just a summary from Mr. Barr — and that he would use a subpoena and take the fight to the Supreme Court if necessary to secure those. Mr. Nadler, whose committee would oversee a potential impeachment of the president, said it was “way too early” to discuss such impeachment. Republicans, meanwhile, were eager to portray Democrats as already disappointed by the mystery report and poised to overreach their authority in a desperate effort to damage Mr. Trump politically. Citing a Justice Department comment that there would be no additional indictments from the special counsel, Representative Doug Collins of Georgia, Mr. Nadler’s Republican counterpart on the Judiciary Committee, said it was increasingly apparent that the president had been “proved right.” “Let’s be honest with the facts and say probably what the facts show is there was no collusion,” Mr. Collins said on Fox. “Let’s go to the logical choice, that nothing happened.” Mr. Collins also threw cold water on Democrats’ demands for Mr. Mueller’s evidence, saying it was “not the Department of Justice’s job” to turn over material, especially classified and grand jury information, “to go off on a purely partisan investigation to lead toward impeachment.” It was a marked turnabout from Republicans’ position when they were in charge and demanding access to documents for their investigations of F.B.I. and Justice Department conduct. Other Republicans took different tracks. Representative Devin Nunes of California, the top Republican on the Intelligence Committee and one of the leading critics of the Mueller investigation, said whatever had been filed was a “partisan document.” “We can just burn it up,” he said on “Fox and Friends.” He called instead for continued investigation of the F.B.I.’s surveillance of a former Trump campaign aide, Carter Page, and its handling of an unverified dossier assembled by a former British spy laying out a purported conspiracy between Trump associates and Russia. Neither side, to be clear, is in a position to know. Mr. Mueller delivered his full report to Mr. Barr on Friday and its contents have been shared only with a small group of top officials at the Justice Department who spent Friday night, Saturday and early Sunday scouring it to produce a document to share with Congress. Hogan Gidley, a White House spokesman, said that as of Sunday morning, the president’s team had not been briefed on the report. Mr. Trump, spending the weekend at his Palm Beach, Fla., club, on Sunday continued to keep an uncharacteristic silence over the investigation’s conclusion. Tweeting for the first time since Mr. Mueller handed in his report Friday, Mr. Trump told his 59 million followers, “Good Morning, Have A Great Day!” Mr. Mueller himself was spotted attending Sunday services at St. John’s Church just steps from the White House. Rumors have blossomed in the information vacuum, and critics and defenders of the president have increasingly traded shots over what they think the report will say. In a tweet on Saturday, Rudolph W. Giuliani, Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer, asked Representative Adam B. Schiff of California, the chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, to apologize for saying there was public evidence of collusion between Mr. Trump’s team and Russia. “I hope he will apologize for his mistake,” Mr. Giuliani wrote. “We all make them. The real virtue is to admit it. It would help us heal.” But Mr. Schiff, appearing on ABC’s “This Week,” was prepared to make no such recompense. Instead, he said his committee had seen evidence of collusion — in public reporting and the special counsel’s indictments. “Mr. Giuliani would be wise to do something he has rarely done, and that is wait till we see the facts,” Mr. Schiff said. Chris Cameron contributed reporting. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.   In an interview, the former mayor and rising Democratic star confirms he’s not running for president, and outlines his plans to mobilize Florida voters for the election. Andrew Gillum, the Democratic nominee for Florida governor in 2018, said he will not run for president in 2020.CreditCreditCharlotte Kesl for The New York Times Supported by By Astead W. Herndon Andrew Gillum has more free time than he would like.  After losing his bid for Florida’s governorship by less than one half of a percentage point, Mr. Gillum, the former Tallahassee mayor, is now carefully planning his next steps amid speculation that he would run for president. On Wednesday, he announced he will not join the Democratic field seeking to oppose President Trump, but instead return to political organizing. He said he aims to build a voter mobilization network in Florida that will help whoever becomes the Democratic Party’s nominee to capture the state’s all-important 29 electoral votes.  Mr. Gillum spoke with The New York Times about why he’s confident Democrats can wrest Florida from Mr. Trump in 2020, what he hopes to see from the primary field, and how he grades the performance of the Republican who beat him last year, Gov. Ron DeSantis.  The interview has been edited and condensed.   I heard your father recently passed and wanted to offer my condolences.  That means a lot, I really appreciate it.  How serious were you thinking about running for president? Did you give it real thought? Everybody has to consider what role they play in Trump’s America right now to bring this to an end. But for me, it was a pretty quick consideration. I had to put into focus that I’d spent the better part of two years running around the state of Florida and away from my three children and my wife.  [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join the conversation around the 2020 race.] If Beto O’Rourke can get into the presidential race, why not Stacey Abrams or Andrew Gillum? Is that a sign of privilege, as some have suggested?  There’s no doubt that O’Rourke enjoys a set of privileges in his decision making that other candidates don’t. Can you imagine it for any of the women that are in the race for president or considering a run? They probably could not muse out loud, or in the recesses of their mind have these sorts of conversations and then say them out loud, and think it would be taken seriously or they would be taken seriously.  I recognize that, but, as I understand it, the congressman also recognizes that there is privilege that accompanies him here. That doesn’t make him less deserving of consideration, it’s just something that has to be acknowledged.  I think over the course of this race, we will — and America will — discover what Beto O’Rourke’s views are. And I think he’ll be measured on that.  What’s the importance of this effort you’re announcing Wednesday? It’s Florida-specific, right?  This is Florida-specific, but guess what — Florida-specific impacts the nation. Twenty-nine electoral voters answers a lot, and not just for the state, but for the country. My dad used to give me this advice a lot: “Son, when you know better, you do better.” And having just come from two years on the campaign trail, and having looked very critically at my own race, there’s some things I learned that I recognize that we can do better at. When Obama was on the ballot in 2008, Democrats enjoyed a registration advantage of almost 800,000. When I showed up on the ballot, that advantage had shrunk to less than 300,000. And it makes a difference, if you have more marbles on the table and more voters you can choose from and have the opportunity to produce.  Given the migration patterns in our state, and given the challenges we have around producing an electorate that's favorable to Democrats to get out and vote — we've got to put more people in the game. Florida is tired of being a cheap date. You can’t just come in when it’s a presidential election and we’ve got a nominee and then do a few months of organizing. Republicans have been disciplined in our state in that way now for 24 years. And now it’s time for Democrats to do the same. Is this work only happening now because the Democratic Party and state party historically dropped the ball?  When you don’t have a governor who can raise money for a party in 24 years, it’s very difficult for you to expect that party to turn on a dime and pull rabbits out of the hat. I’d say it’s a failure, writ large, of how people have treated Florida when it comes to organizing. It’s a state to go to when you want a presidential win, but outside of that? Good luck.  What are you looking for the Democratic presidential candidates to prioritize?  I am convinced that, through our primary process, we will produce the person who’s our strongest bet toward winning the White House. I hope whoever that is will be closer to my ideological end of the spectrum, but the truth is these primaries tend to produce candidates who are likely going to be our best bet to compete against Donald Trump. And more than anything, I think Democrats want to win.  But what about a Joe Biden-esque figure, a moderate who doesn’t have the same type of progressive message you ran on?  Whatever message Joe Biden may carry is closer to what I carry than Donald Trump’s.  But if you're Joe Biden, you’re really going to have to search the recesses of your past and make sure that you're ready to reconcile those places that will put you outside the mainstream of where Democrats are today. And I expect that that’s probably part of the preparation to him entering the race, right? He’s got a long record, and there’s a lot for him to mull over, and a lot for him to assess where he’s evolved. And maybe where he hasn’t.  Has Governor DeSantis been more pragmatic than you thought he’d be?  The governor recognizes what I know, which is, 30,000-odd votes separated the two of us. We each got 4 million-plus votes, and the difference was practically a rounding error. So the governor did what I think any smart politician would do: He reduced those areas in the early phases that would divide. He tacked a little more toward a pragmatic and less ideological place, and that has produced some good will for the governor. The test is how he performs, now that he has a Republican-controlled House and Senate that may push him back to either his natural leanings, or create a contrast within his party.  I know you have to go, but I keep coming back to you, Beto O’Rourke, and Stacey Abrams. It is striking that the two black candidates are currently going to work in grass-roots organizing and the white candidate is running for president? You don’t have anything else to say on that?  Listen, man, we’re used to working.  Astead W. Herndon is a national political reporter based in New York. He was previously a Washington-based political reporter and a City Hall reporter for The Boston Globe.  @AsteadWesley 

In an interview, the former mayor and rising Democratic star confirms he’s not running for president, and outlines his plans to mobilize Florida voters for the election. Andrew Gillum, the Democratic nominee for Florida governor in 2018, said he will not run for president in 2020.CreditCreditCharlotte Kesl for The New York Times Supported by By Astead W. Herndon Andrew Gillum has more free time than he would like.  After losing his bid for Florida’s governorship by less than one half of a percentage point, Mr. Gillum, the former Tallahassee mayor, is now carefully planning his next steps amid speculation that he would run for president. On Wednesday, he announced he will not join the Democratic field seeking to oppose President Trump, but instead return to political organizing. He said he aims to build a voter mobilization network in Florida that will help whoever becomes the Democratic Party’s nominee to capture the state’s all-important 29 electoral votes.  Mr. Gillum spoke with The New York Times about why he’s confident Democrats can wrest Florida from Mr. Trump in 2020, what he hopes to see from the primary field, and how he grades the performance of the Republican who beat him last year, Gov. Ron DeSantis.  The interview has been edited and condensed.   I heard your father recently passed and wanted to offer my condolences.  That means a lot, I really appreciate it.  How serious were you thinking about running for president? Did you give it real thought? Everybody has to consider what role they play in Trump’s America right now to bring this to an end. But for me, it was a pretty quick consideration. I had to put into focus that I’d spent the better part of two years running around the state of Florida and away from my three children and my wife.  [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join the conversation around the 2020 race.] If Beto O’Rourke can get into the presidential race, why not Stacey Abrams or Andrew Gillum? Is that a sign of privilege, as some have suggested?  There’s no doubt that O’Rourke enjoys a set of privileges in his decision making that other candidates don’t. Can you imagine it for any of the women that are in the race for president or considering a run? They probably could not muse out loud, or in the recesses of their mind have these sorts of conversations and then say them out loud, and think it would be taken seriously or they would be taken seriously.  I recognize that, but, as I understand it, the congressman also recognizes that there is privilege that accompanies him here. That doesn’t make him less deserving of consideration, it’s just something that has to be acknowledged.  I think over the course of this race, we will — and America will — discover what Beto O’Rourke’s views are. And I think he’ll be measured on that.  What’s the importance of this effort you’re announcing Wednesday? It’s Florida-specific, right?  This is Florida-specific, but guess what — Florida-specific impacts the nation. Twenty-nine electoral voters answers a lot, and not just for the state, but for the country. My dad used to give me this advice a lot: “Son, when you know better, you do better.” And having just come from two years on the campaign trail, and having looked very critically at my own race, there’s some things I learned that I recognize that we can do better at. When Obama was on the ballot in 2008, Democrats enjoyed a registration advantage of almost 800,000. When I showed up on the ballot, that advantage had shrunk to less than 300,000. And it makes a difference, if you have more marbles on the table and more voters you can choose from and have the opportunity to produce.  Given the migration patterns in our state, and given the challenges we have around producing an electorate that's favorable to Democrats to get out and vote — we've got to put more people in the game. Florida is tired of being a cheap date. You can’t just come in when it’s a presidential election and we’ve got a nominee and then do a few months of organizing. Republicans have been disciplined in our state in that way now for 24 years. And now it’s time for Democrats to do the same. Is this work only happening now because the Democratic Party and state party historically dropped the ball?  When you don’t have a governor who can raise money for a party in 24 years, it’s very difficult for you to expect that party to turn on a dime and pull rabbits out of the hat. I’d say it’s a failure, writ large, of how people have treated Florida when it comes to organizing. It’s a state to go to when you want a presidential win, but outside of that? Good luck.  What are you looking for the Democratic presidential candidates to prioritize?  I am convinced that, through our primary process, we will produce the person who’s our strongest bet toward winning the White House. I hope whoever that is will be closer to my ideological end of the spectrum, but the truth is these primaries tend to produce candidates who are likely going to be our best bet to compete against Donald Trump. And more than anything, I think Democrats want to win.  But what about a Joe Biden-esque figure, a moderate who doesn’t have the same type of progressive message you ran on?  Whatever message Joe Biden may carry is closer to what I carry than Donald Trump’s.  But if you're Joe Biden, you’re really going to have to search the recesses of your past and make sure that you're ready to reconcile those places that will put you outside the mainstream of where Democrats are today. And I expect that that’s probably part of the preparation to him entering the race, right? He’s got a long record, and there’s a lot for him to mull over, and a lot for him to assess where he’s evolved. And maybe where he hasn’t.  Has Governor DeSantis been more pragmatic than you thought he’d be?  The governor recognizes what I know, which is, 30,000-odd votes separated the two of us. We each got 4 million-plus votes, and the difference was practically a rounding error. So the governor did what I think any smart politician would do: He reduced those areas in the early phases that would divide. He tacked a little more toward a pragmatic and less ideological place, and that has produced some good will for the governor. The test is how he performs, now that he has a Republican-controlled House and Senate that may push him back to either his natural leanings, or create a contrast within his party.  I know you have to go, but I keep coming back to you, Beto O’Rourke, and Stacey Abrams. It is striking that the two black candidates are currently going to work in grass-roots organizing and the white candidate is running for president? You don’t have anything else to say on that?  Listen, man, we’re used to working.  Astead W. Herndon is a national political reporter based in New York. He was previously a Washington-based political reporter and a City Hall reporter for The Boston Globe.  @AsteadWesley 