Supported by By Alexander Burns The question was simple enough, but Senator John Edwards squirmed painfully. For 49 long seconds, the North Carolina Democrat, a masterful courtroom orator, sputtered before a crowd at Harvard, unable to settle on a favorite movie. Taunted by the MSNBC anchor Chris Matthews, who accused him of scrambling political calculations in his head, Mr. Edwards eventually supplied a thoroughly inoffensive answer: “The Shawshank Redemption.” Pete Buttigieg watched in horror. Two weeks later, in October 2003, Mr. Buttigieg vented his dismay in The Harvard Crimson. Contrasting Mr. Edwards’s hollow presentation with Arnold Schwarzenegger’s brazen campaign for governor of California, Mr. Buttigieg wrote that Republicans had cornered the market on political swagger. “Across the aisle,” Mr. Buttigieg lamented, “members of a Democratic Party, aghast at the hypocrisy of their counterparts’ personalities, seem themselves reluctant to demonstrate any personality at all.” Sixteen years later, that observation informs Mr. Buttigieg’s underdog campaign for the White House, an enterprise driven powerfully by personality. Other candidates have anchored their candidacies in ideological or social causes, like Senator Elizabeth Warren’s opposition to corporate power or Senator Cory Booker’s concern for racial justice. [Mr. Buttigieg is officially kicking off his campaign on Sunday afternoon.] Mr. Buttigieg’s distinctive political passion appears to be storytelling, wrapping conventional liberalism in an earnest, youthful persona that Democrats might see as capable of winning over the middle of the country. Dan Glickman, a former secretary of agriculture in the Clinton administration who knew Mr. Buttigieg at Harvard, said he saw him as a “tonal” moderate with a “calm, sensible demeanor.” “He’s got this way of articulating a vision, which is progressive but not off-putting,” said Mr. Glickman, 74, who led Harvard’s Institute of Politics at the time. A Times review of Mr. Buttigieg’s writings, starting in college, found that rhetorical task to be a consistent preoccupation. As a student, Mr. Buttigieg, now 37 and the mayor of South Bend, Ind., habitually discussed Democrats’ challenges in terms of language and argument, rather than policy or ideology. Mr. Buttigieg urged liberals in his student columns to speak in terms of “effective political values,” and he recalled corresponding in college with the University of California, Berkeley, linguist George Lakoff, who in 2004 published a best seller about political communication. In an interview, Mr. Buttigieg said his college writings were no longer fresh in his mind. But then, as now, he acknowledged, he was focused on the interaction of “narrative and politics,” and how parties connect with people beyond policy decrees. “The story that we tell, not just about government but about ourselves, and the story we tell people about themselves and how they fit in, really grounds our politics,” Mr. Buttigieg said. Mr. Buttigieg said in the interview that Democrats in 2004 faced a “crisis of authenticity,” with too many “pretending to be more hawkish than their consciences were.” [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join our conversation about the 2020 presidential race.] He channeled that frustration at the time into columns that ripple with disappointment about the “spineless Democratic Party.” Mr. Buttigieg wrote in passing about policies he found intriguing, like enacting single-payer health care and eliminating oil as a fuel source. But campaigns hinged on wider themes, he wrote: “Americans need a narrative.” “As long as the events can outpace the media’s ability to construct a novelistic story around them, the voters may have some control; but it doesn’t take long to spin a tale,” Mr. Buttigieg wrote in January 2004. He continued, “What no one seems able to understand is why some narratives are chosen, and others aren’t.” For now, a good number of Democrats appear to be choosing the one Mr. Buttigieg has crafted. He has made an unlikely splash in the race, becoming the first openly gay major presidential candidate and captivating both elite opinion-shapers and swaths of rank-and-file Democrats with his self-assured intellectualism and rhetoric about generational change. Despite lacking traditional qualifications for the presidency and declining, so far, to detail a distinctive policy agenda, Mr. Buttigieg has risen to the middle of the Democratic field in polling numbers and fund-raising. Propelling Mr. Buttigieg is an anxiety-free persona of the kind he once identified as lacking in Mr. Edwards. He has presented himself as a cerebral type of Jimmy Stewart character, plain-spoken in manner but boasting degrees from Harvard and Oxford, discoursing happily about James Joyce and flaunting his proficiency in Norwegian. Mr. Buttigieg often appears beside his husband, Chasten Buttigieg, a teacher and emerging social-media star. Both men speak with unselfconscious pride about their marriage, and they display public affection of a kind never seen before in a presidential campaign. That full package, Mr. Buttigieg said in a recent television interview, makes him “about as different from this president as it gets.” If Mr. Buttigieg shares anything with President Trump, however, it is his reliance on comportment and biography to carry his campaign. Mr. Trump climbed to the White House on the strength of a voluble personality projected over mass media, waxing enthusiastic not about Scandinavian literature but about celebrity gossip and fast food. Even some Democrats appalled by Mr. Trump envy his crude ease with mass communication. In this respect, Mr. Buttigieg’s campaign is also an echo of his early writings, when he expressed alarm about Democrats struggling to appear as genuine as a president, George W. Bush, whom he viewed as dishonest. In one column, Mr. Buttigieg wrote with something like admiration about Mr. Bush’s commercials that showed him striding with a “West Wing gait” and declaring: “I know exactly where I want to lead this country.” “I believe him,” Mr. Buttigieg wrote. His preoccupation with language was widely shared among Bush-era Democrats. Liberals’ conviction that their defeats stemmed from failing to communicate made a 2004 tome about political argument, Mr. Lakoff’s “Don’t Think of an Elephant,” into an influential commercial success. Mr. Buttigieg confirmed through a spokeswoman that he had read the book, and said he corresponded as a student with Mr. Lakoff but doubted the linguist would remember. Mr. Lakoff said in an interview that he did not recall interacting with Mr. Buttigieg, but praised him as a communicator with a gift for breaking down ideas for voters. “He knows how to talk plainly,” Mr. Lakoff said. “Usually, Democrats are saying: What are your 10 most important policy areas? And he doesn’t do that.” Mr. Buttigieg is likely to face pressure, however, to define a clearer governing agenda. At this early stage, he has no equivalent of Senator Kamala Harris’s call to raise teacher salaries or Ms. Warren’s proposed wealth tax, or the pledge by Gov. Jay Inslee of Washington to focus single-mindedly on climate change. As mayor of a city with about a fifth the population of Staten Island, Mr. Buttigieg lacks the kind of wide-ranging record that has given credibility and depth to other competitors’ rhetoric. Mr. Buttigieg has stirred suspicion among some Democrats for his hazy commitments on policy. In the left-wing magazine Current Affairs, the editor Nathan J. Robinson ridiculed Mr. Buttigieg as a clever political marketer without ideas or a record undergirding his ambition. “He’s from the Rust Belt so he’s authentic, but he went to Harvard so he’s not a rube, but he’s from a small city so he’s relatable, but he’s gay so he’s got coastal appeal, but he’s a veteran so his sexuality won’t alienate rural people,” Mr. Robinson wrote. “This is literally the level of political thinking that is involved in the hype around Buttigieg.” There are policy elements in Mr. Buttigieg’s pitch, many of them tethered to the theme of generational change. He has called for creating a government-backed health insurance option and for aggressively regulating consumer data online, and speaks with fluency about the threats posed to young people by climate change and the replacement of human workers by machines. He has pushed back on the left here and there, rejecting the idea of making free college a government goal. More provocatively, Mr. Buttigieg has backed two long-shot proposals to restructure the Supreme Court and abolish the Electoral College. And he has praised, without quite endorsing, ideas for taxing carbon fuel and experimenting with a universal basic income policy, whereby the government would issue cash payments to give citizens a minimum sum to live on. Mr. Buttigieg said he would outline more proposals with time. But he rejected the idea that the Democratic race might hinge on “who has the most elegant policy design.” Because a president cannot execute his plans freely in office, Mr. Buttigieg argued, it would be “inauthentic” to make too many detailed promises. “I actually think I’ve been plenty specific; it’s just that we don’t lead with it,” Mr. Buttigieg said. “I don’t want to drown people in minutiae.” Mr. Buttigieg’s instinct for simplicity and vagueness appears deeply rooted. In 2004, he co-wrote a New York Times column describing research into the platforms of political parties, concluding that winning parties tended to have shorter platforms. And in his final column in his college newspaper, Mr. Buttigieg urged Democrats to focus chiefly on reclaiming terms like “morality” and “compassion” from the right. He acknowledged that recommendation was “about as specific as President Bush’s plan for rebuilding Iraq.” But Mr. Buttigieg said he aimed to help “turn these principles from clichéd and overused words into effective political values.” That theory of politics reappeared in Mr. Buttigieg’s 2019 memoir, “Shortest Way Home,” in which he concluded, after his bid for party chairman, that voters craved a “values-led message.” And perhaps with Mr. Edwards’s stumble as a faintly remembered cautionary tale, Mr. Buttigieg did not hesitate in the interview to disclose some favorite films, naming “The Godfather” and “Gangs of New York,” Martin Scorsese’s violent tale of 19th-century New York City. Of the latter, he conceded: “I don’t know that it’ll enter into the canon of great films.”   

Supported by By Alexander Burns The question was simple enough, but Senator John Edwards squirmed painfully. For 49 long seconds, the North Carolina Democrat, a masterful courtroom orator, sputtered before a crowd at Harvard, unable to settle on a favorite movie. Taunted by the MSNBC anchor Chris Matthews, who accused him of scrambling political calculations in his head, Mr. Edwards eventually supplied a thoroughly inoffensive answer: “The Shawshank Redemption.” Pete Buttigieg watched in horror. Two weeks later, in October 2003, Mr. Buttigieg vented his dismay in The Harvard Crimson. Contrasting Mr. Edwards’s hollow presentation with Arnold Schwarzenegger’s brazen campaign for governor of California, Mr. Buttigieg wrote that Republicans had cornered the market on political swagger. “Across the aisle,” Mr. Buttigieg lamented, “members of a Democratic Party, aghast at the hypocrisy of their counterparts’ personalities, seem themselves reluctant to demonstrate any personality at all.” Sixteen years later, that observation informs Mr. Buttigieg’s underdog campaign for the White House, an enterprise driven powerfully by personality. Other candidates have anchored their candidacies in ideological or social causes, like Senator Elizabeth Warren’s opposition to corporate power or Senator Cory Booker’s concern for racial justice. [Mr. Buttigieg is officially kicking off his campaign on Sunday afternoon.] Mr. Buttigieg’s distinctive political passion appears to be storytelling, wrapping conventional liberalism in an earnest, youthful persona that Democrats might see as capable of winning over the middle of the country. Dan Glickman, a former secretary of agriculture in the Clinton administration who knew Mr. Buttigieg at Harvard, said he saw him as a “tonal” moderate with a “calm, sensible demeanor.” “He’s got this way of articulating a vision, which is progressive but not off-putting,” said Mr. Glickman, 74, who led Harvard’s Institute of Politics at the time. A Times review of Mr. Buttigieg’s writings, starting in college, found that rhetorical task to be a consistent preoccupation. As a student, Mr. Buttigieg, now 37 and the mayor of South Bend, Ind., habitually discussed Democrats’ challenges in terms of language and argument, rather than policy or ideology. Mr. Buttigieg urged liberals in his student columns to speak in terms of “effective political values,” and he recalled corresponding in college with the University of California, Berkeley, linguist George Lakoff, who in 2004 published a best seller about political communication. In an interview, Mr. Buttigieg said his college writings were no longer fresh in his mind. But then, as now, he acknowledged, he was focused on the interaction of “narrative and politics,” and how parties connect with people beyond policy decrees. “The story that we tell, not just about government but about ourselves, and the story we tell people about themselves and how they fit in, really grounds our politics,” Mr. Buttigieg said. Mr. Buttigieg said in the interview that Democrats in 2004 faced a “crisis of authenticity,” with too many “pretending to be more hawkish than their consciences were.” [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join our conversation about the 2020 presidential race.] He channeled that frustration at the time into columns that ripple with disappointment about the “spineless Democratic Party.” Mr. Buttigieg wrote in passing about policies he found intriguing, like enacting single-payer health care and eliminating oil as a fuel source. But campaigns hinged on wider themes, he wrote: “Americans need a narrative.” “As long as the events can outpace the media’s ability to construct a novelistic story around them, the voters may have some control; but it doesn’t take long to spin a tale,” Mr. Buttigieg wrote in January 2004. He continued, “What no one seems able to understand is why some narratives are chosen, and others aren’t.” For now, a good number of Democrats appear to be choosing the one Mr. Buttigieg has crafted. He has made an unlikely splash in the race, becoming the first openly gay major presidential candidate and captivating both elite opinion-shapers and swaths of rank-and-file Democrats with his self-assured intellectualism and rhetoric about generational change. Despite lacking traditional qualifications for the presidency and declining, so far, to detail a distinctive policy agenda, Mr. Buttigieg has risen to the middle of the Democratic field in polling numbers and fund-raising. Propelling Mr. Buttigieg is an anxiety-free persona of the kind he once identified as lacking in Mr. Edwards. He has presented himself as a cerebral type of Jimmy Stewart character, plain-spoken in manner but boasting degrees from Harvard and Oxford, discoursing happily about James Joyce and flaunting his proficiency in Norwegian. Mr. Buttigieg often appears beside his husband, Chasten Buttigieg, a teacher and emerging social-media star. Both men speak with unselfconscious pride about their marriage, and they display public affection of a kind never seen before in a presidential campaign. That full package, Mr. Buttigieg said in a recent television interview, makes him “about as different from this president as it gets.” If Mr. Buttigieg shares anything with President Trump, however, it is his reliance on comportment and biography to carry his campaign. Mr. Trump climbed to the White House on the strength of a voluble personality projected over mass media, waxing enthusiastic not about Scandinavian literature but about celebrity gossip and fast food. Even some Democrats appalled by Mr. Trump envy his crude ease with mass communication. In this respect, Mr. Buttigieg’s campaign is also an echo of his early writings, when he expressed alarm about Democrats struggling to appear as genuine as a president, George W. Bush, whom he viewed as dishonest. In one column, Mr. Buttigieg wrote with something like admiration about Mr. Bush’s commercials that showed him striding with a “West Wing gait” and declaring: “I know exactly where I want to lead this country.” “I believe him,” Mr. Buttigieg wrote. His preoccupation with language was widely shared among Bush-era Democrats. Liberals’ conviction that their defeats stemmed from failing to communicate made a 2004 tome about political argument, Mr. Lakoff’s “Don’t Think of an Elephant,” into an influential commercial success. Mr. Buttigieg confirmed through a spokeswoman that he had read the book, and said he corresponded as a student with Mr. Lakoff but doubted the linguist would remember. Mr. Lakoff said in an interview that he did not recall interacting with Mr. Buttigieg, but praised him as a communicator with a gift for breaking down ideas for voters. “He knows how to talk plainly,” Mr. Lakoff said. “Usually, Democrats are saying: What are your 10 most important policy areas? And he doesn’t do that.” Mr. Buttigieg is likely to face pressure, however, to define a clearer governing agenda. At this early stage, he has no equivalent of Senator Kamala Harris’s call to raise teacher salaries or Ms. Warren’s proposed wealth tax, or the pledge by Gov. Jay Inslee of Washington to focus single-mindedly on climate change. As mayor of a city with about a fifth the population of Staten Island, Mr. Buttigieg lacks the kind of wide-ranging record that has given credibility and depth to other competitors’ rhetoric. Mr. Buttigieg has stirred suspicion among some Democrats for his hazy commitments on policy. In the left-wing magazine Current Affairs, the editor Nathan J. Robinson ridiculed Mr. Buttigieg as a clever political marketer without ideas or a record undergirding his ambition. “He’s from the Rust Belt so he’s authentic, but he went to Harvard so he’s not a rube, but he’s from a small city so he’s relatable, but he’s gay so he’s got coastal appeal, but he’s a veteran so his sexuality won’t alienate rural people,” Mr. Robinson wrote. “This is literally the level of political thinking that is involved in the hype around Buttigieg.” There are policy elements in Mr. Buttigieg’s pitch, many of them tethered to the theme of generational change. He has called for creating a government-backed health insurance option and for aggressively regulating consumer data online, and speaks with fluency about the threats posed to young people by climate change and the replacement of human workers by machines. He has pushed back on the left here and there, rejecting the idea of making free college a government goal. More provocatively, Mr. Buttigieg has backed two long-shot proposals to restructure the Supreme Court and abolish the Electoral College. And he has praised, without quite endorsing, ideas for taxing carbon fuel and experimenting with a universal basic income policy, whereby the government would issue cash payments to give citizens a minimum sum to live on. Mr. Buttigieg said he would outline more proposals with time. But he rejected the idea that the Democratic race might hinge on “who has the most elegant policy design.” Because a president cannot execute his plans freely in office, Mr. Buttigieg argued, it would be “inauthentic” to make too many detailed promises. “I actually think I’ve been plenty specific; it’s just that we don’t lead with it,” Mr. Buttigieg said. “I don’t want to drown people in minutiae.” Mr. Buttigieg’s instinct for simplicity and vagueness appears deeply rooted. In 2004, he co-wrote a New York Times column describing research into the platforms of political parties, concluding that winning parties tended to have shorter platforms. And in his final column in his college newspaper, Mr. Buttigieg urged Democrats to focus chiefly on reclaiming terms like “morality” and “compassion” from the right. He acknowledged that recommendation was “about as specific as President Bush’s plan for rebuilding Iraq.” But Mr. Buttigieg said he aimed to help “turn these principles from clichéd and overused words into effective political values.” That theory of politics reappeared in Mr. Buttigieg’s 2019 memoir, “Shortest Way Home,” in which he concluded, after his bid for party chairman, that voters craved a “values-led message.” And perhaps with Mr. Edwards’s stumble as a faintly remembered cautionary tale, Mr. Buttigieg did not hesitate in the interview to disclose some favorite films, naming “The Godfather” and “Gangs of New York,” Martin Scorsese’s violent tale of 19th-century New York City. Of the latter, he conceded: “I don’t know that it’ll enter into the canon of great films.”   Supported by By Trip Gabriel SOUTH BEND, Ind. — Pete Buttigieg, the young Midwestern mayor whose presidential bid has been an unlikely early focus of attention from Democratic voters and donors, kicked off his campaign on Sunday and proclaimed his hometown’s revival was the answer to skeptics who ask how he has the “audacity” to see himself in the White House. At a rally inside a partly rebuilt factory, once owned by the automaker Studebaker and now being turned into glass-sheathed offices for tech and other businesses, Mr. Buttigieg said, “I ran for mayor in 2011 knowing nothing like Studebaker would ever come back, but that we would, our city would, if we had the courage to reimagine our future.” If elected, Mr. Buttigieg, a 37-year-old Rhodes scholar and veteran of the war in Afghanistan, would represent a series of historic firsts: the youngest president ever and the first who is openly gay. He said he was motivated to run despite his youth because of an urgency to correct the course of the Trump administration on climate change, health care and immigration. “This is one of those rare moments between whole eras in the life of our nation,” Mr. Buttigieg said, adding, “The moment we live in compels us to act.’’ [Pete Buttigieg’s college writings reveal the roots of his 2020 campaign.] He painted a picture of a hopeful future rooted in Midwestern values, contrasting his focus on a better life in 2030, 2040 and 2054 — the year he would be the same age as President Trump is today — with what he called Mr. Trump’s appeal to “resentment and nostalgia.” And he invoked his marriage to his husband, Chasten Buttigieg, as one of the blessings of American freedom, but one that feels fragile in the current climate. “Our marriage exists by the grace of a single vote on the U.S. Supreme Court,’’ Mr. Buttigieg told a crowd of several thousand people. “Nine men and women sat down in a room and took a vote, and they brought me the most important freedom in my life.” Though Mr. Buttigieg is a political progressive, his main message is the claim to leadership of millennial Americans, those he says will be on “the business end” of climate change, who grew up with school shootings and who supplied most of the troops in America’s wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. Little known just two months ago, Mr. Buttigieg has won support and financial backing through a blitz of television interviews in which he has given earnest, nuanced responses that make liberal points without raising the temperature. But he has also engaged some of the left’s big targets, accusing Vice President Mike Pence of religious hypocrisy for standing faithfully behind Mr. Trump and for seeking to erode gay rights. And he makes much of the fact that he has more military experience than any president since George H. W. Bush. Mr. Buttigieg took a seven-month leave during his first mayoral term to serve as a Navy Reserves intelligence officer in Afghanistan. He mentioned “the 119 trips I took outside the wire” guarding or driving a vehicle. The men and women he escorted “cared about whether my M-4 was locked and loaded,’’ he said, “not whether I was going home to a girlfriend or a boyfriend.’’ Videos showcasing his assorted talents have been online hits, including him speaking in Norwegian and playing piano with the singer Ben Folds and the South Bend Symphony. By some measures, his candidacy has generated more social media interest than any other 2020 Democratic hopeful. [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join our conversation about the 2020 presidential race.] Once considered the longest of long shots, he has seen a surge in fund-raising and in polls. His campaign reported raising $7 million in the first quarter of the year, a more than respectable figure. Last week, polls of Iowa and New Hampshire showed Mr. Buttigieg trailing only Senator Bernie Sanders and former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., and ahead of better-known candidates including Senator Elizabeth Warren and former Representative Beto O’Rourke. As he ascends from flavor-of-the-month to widely visible contender for the Democratic nomination, Mr. Buttigieg’s record as a two-term mayor is beginning to come under scrutiny. Apart from his biography — he has credentials from Harvard, Oxford and McKinsey consulting — Mr. Buttigieg’s candidacy rests on his claim of reversing economic free fall in South Bend, once an industrial powerhouse that in 2011 was named by Newsweek one of America’s top 10 “dying cities.” Today, businesses and pedestrians have returned to parts of downtown, including the new offices in the former Studebaker factory. “I’m glad you can see this for yourself, because this city’s story is a big part of why I am doing this,’’ he said, speaking in an unrestored part of the factory where the vaulted roof leaked on a rainy day. Not everyone has benefited from the city’s post-recession growth. Some black and Hispanic residents, who account for 40 percent of the population, feel left out. “It’s hard for me to say this is a turnaround city,” said Regina Williams-Preston, who is running in municipal elections to replace Mr. Buttigieg. “We’re all excited about what’s happening downtown — the black community, poor folks, Hispanic people,” she said. But prosperity has not flowed equally. “Over half the people in our community who are working — it’s their dollars that you’re investing — are not feeling a return on their investment.” An earlier version of this article stated incorrectly that Pete Buttigieg was the only 2020 presidential candidate to have served in the military. Representative Tulsi Gabbard, another candidate, is also a veteran.   

Supported by By Trip Gabriel SOUTH BEND, Ind. — Pete Buttigieg, the young Midwestern mayor whose presidential bid has been an unlikely early focus of attention from Democratic voters and donors, kicked off his campaign on Sunday and proclaimed his hometown’s revival was the answer to skeptics who ask how he has the “audacity” to see himself in the White House. At a rally inside a partly rebuilt factory, once owned by the automaker Studebaker and now being turned into glass-sheathed offices for tech and other businesses, Mr. Buttigieg said, “I ran for mayor in 2011 knowing nothing like Studebaker would ever come back, but that we would, our city would, if we had the courage to reimagine our future.” If elected, Mr. Buttigieg, a 37-year-old Rhodes scholar and veteran of the war in Afghanistan, would represent a series of historic firsts: the youngest president ever and the first who is openly gay. He said he was motivated to run despite his youth because of an urgency to correct the course of the Trump administration on climate change, health care and immigration. “This is one of those rare moments between whole eras in the life of our nation,” Mr. Buttigieg said, adding, “The moment we live in compels us to act.’’ [Pete Buttigieg’s college writings reveal the roots of his 2020 campaign.] He painted a picture of a hopeful future rooted in Midwestern values, contrasting his focus on a better life in 2030, 2040 and 2054 — the year he would be the same age as President Trump is today — with what he called Mr. Trump’s appeal to “resentment and nostalgia.” And he invoked his marriage to his husband, Chasten Buttigieg, as one of the blessings of American freedom, but one that feels fragile in the current climate. “Our marriage exists by the grace of a single vote on the U.S. Supreme Court,’’ Mr. Buttigieg told a crowd of several thousand people. “Nine men and women sat down in a room and took a vote, and they brought me the most important freedom in my life.” Though Mr. Buttigieg is a political progressive, his main message is the claim to leadership of millennial Americans, those he says will be on “the business end” of climate change, who grew up with school shootings and who supplied most of the troops in America’s wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. Little known just two months ago, Mr. Buttigieg has won support and financial backing through a blitz of television interviews in which he has given earnest, nuanced responses that make liberal points without raising the temperature. But he has also engaged some of the left’s big targets, accusing Vice President Mike Pence of religious hypocrisy for standing faithfully behind Mr. Trump and for seeking to erode gay rights. And he makes much of the fact that he has more military experience than any president since George H. W. Bush. Mr. Buttigieg took a seven-month leave during his first mayoral term to serve as a Navy Reserves intelligence officer in Afghanistan. He mentioned “the 119 trips I took outside the wire” guarding or driving a vehicle. The men and women he escorted “cared about whether my M-4 was locked and loaded,’’ he said, “not whether I was going home to a girlfriend or a boyfriend.’’ Videos showcasing his assorted talents have been online hits, including him speaking in Norwegian and playing piano with the singer Ben Folds and the South Bend Symphony. By some measures, his candidacy has generated more social media interest than any other 2020 Democratic hopeful. [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join our conversation about the 2020 presidential race.] Once considered the longest of long shots, he has seen a surge in fund-raising and in polls. His campaign reported raising $7 million in the first quarter of the year, a more than respectable figure. Last week, polls of Iowa and New Hampshire showed Mr. Buttigieg trailing only Senator Bernie Sanders and former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., and ahead of better-known candidates including Senator Elizabeth Warren and former Representative Beto O’Rourke. As he ascends from flavor-of-the-month to widely visible contender for the Democratic nomination, Mr. Buttigieg’s record as a two-term mayor is beginning to come under scrutiny. Apart from his biography — he has credentials from Harvard, Oxford and McKinsey consulting — Mr. Buttigieg’s candidacy rests on his claim of reversing economic free fall in South Bend, once an industrial powerhouse that in 2011 was named by Newsweek one of America’s top 10 “dying cities.” Today, businesses and pedestrians have returned to parts of downtown, including the new offices in the former Studebaker factory. “I’m glad you can see this for yourself, because this city’s story is a big part of why I am doing this,’’ he said, speaking in an unrestored part of the factory where the vaulted roof leaked on a rainy day. Not everyone has benefited from the city’s post-recession growth. Some black and Hispanic residents, who account for 40 percent of the population, feel left out. “It’s hard for me to say this is a turnaround city,” said Regina Williams-Preston, who is running in municipal elections to replace Mr. Buttigieg. “We’re all excited about what’s happening downtown — the black community, poor folks, Hispanic people,” she said. But prosperity has not flowed equally. “Over half the people in our community who are working — it’s their dollars that you’re investing — are not feeling a return on their investment.” An earlier version of this article stated incorrectly that Pete Buttigieg was the only 2020 presidential candidate to have served in the military. Representative Tulsi Gabbard, another candidate, is also a veteran.   Supported by On Politics With Lisa Lerer By Lisa Lerer Hi. Welcome to On Politics, your guide to the day in national politics. I’m Lisa Lerer, your host. [Get On Politics delivered to your inbox.] He’s the “hottest candidate in the 2020 race,” according to CNN. New Yorkers love him more than their own mayor. And then, last night, he achieved pure Democratic nirvana: a fawning, six-minute monologue on “The Daily Show.” “There’s no dirt on this guy! Like, nothing,” Trevor Noah said in a segment that might as well have been a campaign ad. “Mayor Pete should do something bad to prove that he’s normal.” It’s official: We’re having a Buttigieg Boomlet. Pete Buttigieg, the 37-year-old mayor of South Bend, Ind., and candidate for president, has suddenly emerged as a star of the Democratic primary. He’s a vet! A Rhodes Scholar! He speaks seven languages! He’s from the Rust Belt! And everyone’s favorite fact: He taught himself Norwegian to read more books! Now, it’s clear many in the media have gone bananas for Mr. Buttigieg. That’s not surprising: We love a fresh new face, particularly if it’s historic (first openly gay president?) and kind of quirky (ask him about “Finnegans Wake”; or, on second thought, maybe don’t.) But are real humans — you know, the kind that actually vote — feeling that same tingle? There’s some evidence that they are: Google searches are up. He brought in more than $600,000 in donations after a televised town hall event on CNN earlier this month, enough to qualify for the debate stage. And a new poll out today from Quinnipiac University has him at a whopping 4 percent, even with Senator Elizabeth Warren and far above his previous national standing of 1 percent. Of course, polyglot or not, Mr. Buttigieg remains a very untested quantity on the national stage. His most significant national political experience was a failed bid for the chairmanship of the Democratic National Committee. He has tackled crime, economic blight and congestion as mayor of South Bend, but the city has a population of just over 100,000 — hardly like leading New York or Los Angeles. Mr. Buttigieg’s lack of a political past may be an asset, though, since he has no record of roll call votes, no history of stances on controversial issues. Just ask Joe Biden, who found himself facing backlash this week after musing that he wished he could have “done something” about the way the Senate Judiciary Committee treated Anita Hill in 1991. (Mr. Biden was the chairman of that committee at the time.) What this whole Buttigieg moment tells me is that we may be into a campaign much like the Republican race in 2012: Remember Herman Cain? Or Tim Pawlenty? Both those men caught a spark, if not quite fire, during that long primary slog. Where are they now? Well, Mr. Cain hosts an online conservative radio show. Mr. Pawlenty became a banking lobbyist before losing a primary for Minnesota governor last year. The key, as both those men would likely say, is not just having a moment. It’s whether that moment comes at the right time. Our colleague Trip Gabriel traveled to South Carolina to get a firsthand look at Mr. Buttigieg’s campaign. Read his story here.  [Sign up here to get On Politics in your inbox.] ____________________ Drop us a line! We want to hear from our readers. Have a question? We’ll try to answer it. Have a comment? We’re all ears. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com. ____________________ Maybe Pete Buttigieg’s success is starting to catch on: This morning, Wayne Messam, the 44-year-old Democratic mayor of Miramar, Fla., announced that he, too, was joining the presidential race. While Miramar, with a population around 140,000, is a bit larger than Mr. Buttigieg’s home of South Bend, Ind., Mr. Messam is far less known in national political circles. Here’s a quick rundown: • After running a construction company in South Florida with his wife, Mr. Messam defeated a 16-year incumbent to become the first African-American mayor of Miramar and is currently in his second term. • His signature issue is a proposal to cancel the more than $1.5 trillion in student debt owed by 44 million Americans. He has also taken liberal stances on gun control, health care and the environment. • He is the son of Jamaican immigrants, and he played wide receiver for Florida State University, winning a national championship there in 1993. He has said he hopes to tap into the Caribbean-American community and friends who are high-profile athletes to support his bid. ____________________ The Democrats have set a date and location for the first debate of the 2020 primary: It will be split across two nights, June 26 and 27, and held in Miami, according to the debate’s host network, NBC News. The candidates will be divided between the two nights randomly. According to FiveThirtyEight, 12 Democrats have qualified so far: Cory Booker, Pete Buttigieg, Julián Castro, Kirsten Gillibrand, Kamala Harris, Jay Inslee, Amy Klobuchar, Beto O’Rourke, Bernie Sanders, Elizabeth Warren, Andrew Yang, and — despite not having entered the race yet — Joe Biden. ____________________ • What is it like to be part of Generation Z? The Times asked young people to describe themselves. Here are nearly 1,000 of them, in their own words and pictures. • A photographer spend two years shooting The Times’s printing plant in College Point, Queens. The result? A photographic ode to the craft of creating a newspaper. • What do you do when your child realizes “bedtime” is just a thing you made up? The first edition of Parenting, our new newsletter for parents and parents-to-be, looks for a solution. (And sign up here to get Parenting in your inbox each week.) ____________________ Scottish dog lovers, beware: There is a bridge northwest of Glasgow that your pooch may not be able to resist hurling herself off. Why are so many dogs jumping? Some suspect it’s the smell of animals in the gorge below. But many locals have more supernatural explanations, from a ghost called the “White Lady of Overtoun” to speculation that the bridge is what the pagan Celts called a “thin place,” a spot where heaven and earth overlap. _____________________ Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox. Thanks for reading. Politics is more than what goes on inside the White House. On Politics brings you the people, issues and ideas reshaping our world. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com. 

Supported by On Politics With Lisa Lerer By Lisa Lerer Hi. Welcome to On Politics, your guide to the day in national politics. I’m Lisa Lerer, your host. [Get On Politics delivered to your inbox.] He’s the “hottest candidate in the 2020 race,” according to CNN. New Yorkers love him more than their own mayor. And then, last night, he achieved pure Democratic nirvana: a fawning, six-minute monologue on “The Daily Show.” “There’s no dirt on this guy! Like, nothing,” Trevor Noah said in a segment that might as well have been a campaign ad. “Mayor Pete should do something bad to prove that he’s normal.” It’s official: We’re having a Buttigieg Boomlet. Pete Buttigieg, the 37-year-old mayor of South Bend, Ind., and candidate for president, has suddenly emerged as a star of the Democratic primary. He’s a vet! A Rhodes Scholar! He speaks seven languages! He’s from the Rust Belt! And everyone’s favorite fact: He taught himself Norwegian to read more books! Now, it’s clear many in the media have gone bananas for Mr. Buttigieg. That’s not surprising: We love a fresh new face, particularly if it’s historic (first openly gay president?) and kind of quirky (ask him about “Finnegans Wake”; or, on second thought, maybe don’t.) But are real humans — you know, the kind that actually vote — feeling that same tingle? There’s some evidence that they are: Google searches are up. He brought in more than $600,000 in donations after a televised town hall event on CNN earlier this month, enough to qualify for the debate stage. And a new poll out today from Quinnipiac University has him at a whopping 4 percent, even with Senator Elizabeth Warren and far above his previous national standing of 1 percent. Of course, polyglot or not, Mr. Buttigieg remains a very untested quantity on the national stage. His most significant national political experience was a failed bid for the chairmanship of the Democratic National Committee. He has tackled crime, economic blight and congestion as mayor of South Bend, but the city has a population of just over 100,000 — hardly like leading New York or Los Angeles. Mr. Buttigieg’s lack of a political past may be an asset, though, since he has no record of roll call votes, no history of stances on controversial issues. Just ask Joe Biden, who found himself facing backlash this week after musing that he wished he could have “done something” about the way the Senate Judiciary Committee treated Anita Hill in 1991. (Mr. Biden was the chairman of that committee at the time.) What this whole Buttigieg moment tells me is that we may be into a campaign much like the Republican race in 2012: Remember Herman Cain? Or Tim Pawlenty? Both those men caught a spark, if not quite fire, during that long primary slog. Where are they now? Well, Mr. Cain hosts an online conservative radio show. Mr. Pawlenty became a banking lobbyist before losing a primary for Minnesota governor last year. The key, as both those men would likely say, is not just having a moment. It’s whether that moment comes at the right time. Our colleague Trip Gabriel traveled to South Carolina to get a firsthand look at Mr. Buttigieg’s campaign. Read his story here.  [Sign up here to get On Politics in your inbox.] ____________________ Drop us a line! We want to hear from our readers. Have a question? We’ll try to answer it. Have a comment? We’re all ears. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com. ____________________ Maybe Pete Buttigieg’s success is starting to catch on: This morning, Wayne Messam, the 44-year-old Democratic mayor of Miramar, Fla., announced that he, too, was joining the presidential race. While Miramar, with a population around 140,000, is a bit larger than Mr. Buttigieg’s home of South Bend, Ind., Mr. Messam is far less known in national political circles. Here’s a quick rundown: • After running a construction company in South Florida with his wife, Mr. Messam defeated a 16-year incumbent to become the first African-American mayor of Miramar and is currently in his second term. • His signature issue is a proposal to cancel the more than $1.5 trillion in student debt owed by 44 million Americans. He has also taken liberal stances on gun control, health care and the environment. • He is the son of Jamaican immigrants, and he played wide receiver for Florida State University, winning a national championship there in 1993. He has said he hopes to tap into the Caribbean-American community and friends who are high-profile athletes to support his bid. ____________________ The Democrats have set a date and location for the first debate of the 2020 primary: It will be split across two nights, June 26 and 27, and held in Miami, according to the debate’s host network, NBC News. The candidates will be divided between the two nights randomly. According to FiveThirtyEight, 12 Democrats have qualified so far: Cory Booker, Pete Buttigieg, Julián Castro, Kirsten Gillibrand, Kamala Harris, Jay Inslee, Amy Klobuchar, Beto O’Rourke, Bernie Sanders, Elizabeth Warren, Andrew Yang, and — despite not having entered the race yet — Joe Biden. ____________________ • What is it like to be part of Generation Z? The Times asked young people to describe themselves. Here are nearly 1,000 of them, in their own words and pictures. • A photographer spend two years shooting The Times’s printing plant in College Point, Queens. The result? A photographic ode to the craft of creating a newspaper. • What do you do when your child realizes “bedtime” is just a thing you made up? The first edition of Parenting, our new newsletter for parents and parents-to-be, looks for a solution. (And sign up here to get Parenting in your inbox each week.) ____________________ Scottish dog lovers, beware: There is a bridge northwest of Glasgow that your pooch may not be able to resist hurling herself off. Why are so many dogs jumping? Some suspect it’s the smell of animals in the gorge below. But many locals have more supernatural explanations, from a ghost called the “White Lady of Overtoun” to speculation that the bridge is what the pagan Celts called a “thin place,” a spot where heaven and earth overlap. _____________________ Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox. Thanks for reading. Politics is more than what goes on inside the White House. On Politics brings you the people, issues and ideas reshaping our world. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.             Paul Manafort’s Trail of Scandals My Dead Dad’s Porno Tapes Ten Meter Tower Between Sound and Silence Coal Miner to Trump: “Coal Mining Isn’t Coming Back” House Tour | Cary Leibowitz Sanctuary City Hotline 2011: Arab Spring ‘Can The President Be Impeached?’ We Answer Your Questions Calving Season

            Paul Manafort’s Trail of Scandals My Dead Dad’s Porno Tapes Ten Meter Tower Between Sound and Silence Coal Miner to Trump: “Coal Mining Isn’t Coming Back” House Tour | Cary Leibowitz Sanctuary City Hotline 2011: Arab Spring ‘Can The President Be Impeached?’ We Answer Your Questions Calving SeasonSupported by The Long Run By Trip Gabriel and Alexander Burns SOUTH BEND, Ind. — Pete Buttigieg had been mayor just 13 weeks when he faced a leadership crisis. It was March 2012, and 300 residents of South Bend, Ind., solemnly marched to the Martin Luther King Center to protest the killing in Florida of a black teenager, Trayvon Martin. A prominent figure at the demonstration was Darryl Boykins, South Bend’s first black police chief. Admired for teaching tennis and boxing to young people, he had been promoted to chief five years earlier after winning the respect of both black and white officers in a department that sometimes divided along racial lines. Mr. Buttigieg addressed the protesters, but seemed not to interact with Mr. Boykins. What no one in the crowd knew was that the police top brass were in turmoil — shaken by allegations that Mr. Boykins had improperly taped phone calls of senior white officers who were said to have used racist language, including about him. With federal prosecutors scrutinizing Mr. Boykins, the 29-year-old mayor fired the veteran police chief just before the Trayvon Martin protest. No action was taken against the officers. Precisely what they said on the tapes of their department phone calls is unknown to the public: Mr. Buttigieg has refused to release them, saying the matter is still being resolved in court. [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join our conversation about the 2020 presidential race.] In the weeks, months and years that followed, the removal of Mr. Boykins unleashed a blizzard of claims, counterclaims and lawsuits, as well as anguish among South Bend’s minority residents over whether an ambitious white mayor had sided with white police officers against a black chief. The day after Mr. Boykins’s dismissal, he was applauded at a gathering of 100 officers, council members and clergy. The events played out against a backdrop of frustration among some African-Americans that they have not benefited equally from an economic resurgence in South Bend, which Mr. Buttigieg extols in his presidential bid. As Mr. Buttigieg seeks the Democratic nomination in a party whose base is anchored by minority voters, his handling of Mr. Boykins’ dismissal and its messy aftermath raise questions whether the mayor either misunderstood or mishandled sensitivities surrounding race and policing in the place he knew best, a city which is 37 percent black and Latino. “It felt stomach-churning,” Mr. Buttigieg recalled of the night of the 2012 protest, speaking in an interview. “To know that that same day, we were at what even then I understood was going to be the beginning of an incredibly painful and divisive moment of race relations in my city.” At that time, Mr. Buttigieg said he removed his police chief because he had lost faith in him after discovering the F.B.I. was investigating him for secretly taping officers’ phone calls. The chief sued the city for racial discrimination over his firing and won $50,000 in 2013. Four white officers sued the city for invasion of privacy and defamation and won a $500,000 payout the same year. In a political memoir released this year, Mr. Buttigieg wrote that the police tapes case “affected my relationship with the African-American community in particular for years to come.” Some minority leaders in South Bend say the case is an example of tone deafness on the part of a rising star in the 2020 Democratic field. Mr. Buttigieg, the first openly gay candidate and the first millennial to seek the presidency, has received a burst of attention and support — measured in $7 million in donations, unexpected strength in polls and mostly positive news coverage. [Check out our tracker of the 2020 Democratic candidate field.] On Sunday, he kicked off his campaign with a rally in a once-derelict Studebaker auto plant, now sheathed in high-tech glass and home to new businesses. It was evidence of the “turnaround” story of South Bend the mayor tells to rebut skeptics who say America has never elevated a mayor to the White House — much less one who governs fewer citizens than fit in some Big Ten football stadiums. His accomplishments include the commercial revival of the downtown, a bump-up of 12,000 jobs over his two terms, and the demolition or repair of over 1,000 decrepit houses to attack urban blight. But there were few people of color at his rally. The former Democratic consultant David Axelrod, a friend of the mayor’s, noted in a Tweet: “Crowd seems very large, very impressive but also very white — an obstacle he will have to overcome.” Regina Williams-Preston, who represents a majority black district on the South Bend City Council, called Mr. Buttigieg “a smart guy, a nice guy,” but added, “We have to look past the polish and really look at the policy.” She said minority activists pushed for years for a citizens’ review board that would have a role in police discipline and promotions. At Mr. Buttigieg’s State of the City speech in 2017, she was astonished to hear him cite a longstanding group, the Board of Public Safety, which the mayor appoints, to boast the city now had a citizens’ review board. “Citizens had asked for a citizens’ review board, and for him to say now we have one, in fact it’s the same thing we’ve always had, that was really disingenuous,” Ms. Williams-Preston said. “Just because you say that doesn’t make it so. To me it was a betrayal.” At issue in the police taping story are some of the most charged issues in municipal and national politics, including surveillance and personal privacy, government transparency and allegations of racism and unlawful behavior by the police. Kareemah Fowler, the South Bend city clerk and a political ally of Mr. Buttigieg, said she believed the mayor had worked hard “trying to bridge the gap” between African-Americans and whites in the city. But Ms. Fowler, whose 2015 campaign backed by Mr. Buttigieg made her the first African-American to hold a full-time executive office in the county, acknowledged that Mr. Buttigieg’s record had not translated into enthusiastic support among black voters for his presidential campaign. She said the police tapes controversy was a painful episode for the city — and for a young mayor, she said, who had “learned a lot from that experience.” “Think about his background and where he comes from — Harvard grad, his parents are two professors,” Ms. Fowler said. “He’d probably never been in an environment, prior to that, where he’d had to deal with racial tension.” Mr. Buttigieg has appointed two white chiefs since ending Mr. Boykins’s tenure. The city has introduced strategies to increase minority trust of officers — implementing body cameras and implicit bias training for officers, and uploading use-of-force incident reports online. But still, minority representation on the department remains low. Only 5 percent of officers were African-American and 5 percent Hispanic in 2018, a slight decline from the previous year. “Over the years we have had probably 20 minority officers who left their jobs,” said Derek Dieter, a retired South Bend police officer and former City Council president, who is white. Critics of the mayor say he was too willing to settle multiple lawsuits over the police tapes to make the issue go away, ultimately costing the city close to $2 million. The council itself sued the mayor, trying to get access to the tapes, a case still being litigated, arguing there was no reason for him to withhold them. Mr. Buttigieg disputes that. Federal and state wiretapping laws, he said, prohibit him from releasing the tapes. But he also acknowledged that he failed to understand early on the broader racial dimensions of the tapes case, viewing it only “in very legalistic terms.” “The more that it went on,” he said, “the more protracted and divisive and expensive the issue became, the more clear it was to me there were a lot of other issues at stake that — as not just the policy leader but symbolic leader of the community — I had a lot of responsibility over healing racial divisions, of which this particular incident was just the tip of the iceberg.” Today none of the four officers heard on the tapes, who held senior roles in the department, still work there. Mr. Buttigieg, who said he has never listened to the tapes because of legal restrictions, doesn’t know if the officers made racist remarks or spoke of illegal activities, as alleged in court filings. The mayor pointed to settlements the city signed with Mr. Boykins and the officers in which all parties acknowledged the absence of evidence of “illegal activity by the plaintiffs” and denied the officers “used any racist word against former Police Chief Darryl Boykins.” So why did Mr. Buttigieg fire Mr. Boykins in the first place? He maintains he was pressured by federal prosecutors. In “Shortest Way Home,” his memoir published in February, he writes that “a message came through” from prosecutors that he must push out Mr. Boykins or they would file charges against him for violating the Federal Wiretap Act. Officers in the department had complained to the U.S. Attorney’s Office for Northern Indiana that the chief illegally recorded their phone calls and had threatened to use the tapes against them. The mayor speculates in his book that prosecutors were trying to duck responsibility for “taking down a beloved African-American police chief” by getting Mr. Buttigieg to fire him instead. He repeated the explanation this week. “It was made very clear to me by the F.B.I. and the U.S. Attorney that either we would take employment action or there would be indictments,” he said. Mr. Boykins’s lawyer, Tom Dixon, said that when he first heard this explanation, invoked by Mr. Buttigieg in 2012, a red flag went up. He asked an assistant prosecutor in the U.S. Attorney’s office, a lawyer he knew from church, about the mayor’s assertion. “He said, ‘Tom, that explanation is so contrary to the protocols of U.S. Attorneys’ offices,”’ Mr. Dixon recalled. “‘We never would condition a determination on prosecuting or not prosecuting based on an employment decision. It would never happen.” Mr. Boykins has insisted that the recordings were made inadvertently, as part of a longstanding police department practice of taping some phone lines. The U.S. Attorney informed the city that after a review of the law, no charges would be brought against Mr. Boykins. After Mr. Buttigieg dismissed Mr. Boykins in March 2012 by asking for his resignation, Mr. Boykins submitted and then rescinded it; Mr. Buttigieg then demoted the chief to the rank of captain. He has since retired. Mr. Boykins did not respond to messages seeking comment. One person who did hear the tapes was the police communications director, Karen DePaepe. In court filings, she described them as “discriminatory racial comments of high ranking officers” in the department, and said she told Mr. Boykins about them. She also heard “something I believe to be possibly illegal.” Eleven days after Mr. Boykins’s removal as chief, Ms. DePaepe, who had made eight cassettes of the phone calls and given them to the chief, was fired. In an interview that night, she told The South Bend Tribune that Mr. Buttigieg’s chief of staff, Mike Schmuhl — who is today his presidential campaign manager — threatened her with arrest if she spoke publicly. “He said, ‘Now you understand that...you and no one else is allowed to discuss the federal investigation or anything that was recorded,’” Ms. DePaepe said she was told by Mr. Schmuhl, according to the newspaper. “‘And if you or anyone else does, you will be arrested.’” The city paid Ms. DePaepe $235,000 in 2014 to settle a suit she brought over defamation and other claims. As part of her settlement, she agreed not to discuss what was on the tapes. A spokesman for the Buttigieg campaign said Mr. Schmuhl recalled his conversation with Ms. DePaepe differently than reported by the newspaper. Ever since Mr. Buttigieg was first elected in 2011, many in South Bend took for granted that he aspired to higher office, with the support of the local Democratic machine, and was carefully building a record of accomplishments. One of those goals was bringing businesses and people back downtown. After the city directed tens of millions of dollars to pedestrian-friendly streets and incentives for developers, new hotels, restaurants and apartments sprang up. Decades of deindustrialization since Studebaker closed its auto plant in the 1960s — and the city lost a quarter of its residents — has been stanched. The population has grown a modest 1 percent, to 102,000, under the mayor. In his State of the City address last month, Mr. Buttigieg received wave after wave of applause as he ticked off these achievements. “When I go on the road, I talk about our experience as a metaphor for what needs to happen in our country,” he said. But the benefits have not flowed equally to South Bend’s large minority communities. Some of the data is dismal. Though the overall poverty rate has fallen since Mr. Buttigieg took office, poverty among African-Americans stubbornly remains almost twice as high as for African-Americans nationwide. The city has one of the highest eviction rates in the country, which has doubled under the mayor, according to the Eviction Lab at Princeton University. In households with working adults, 54 percent do not earn enough to meet a “survival budget,” according to the United Way. The downtown may be a vibrant draw once again for residents, but not everyone can participate. “You’ve got black people, we’re outside looking in the window at folks enjoying a steak,” said Mario Sims, a pastor and community activist. Mr. Sims has led protests over the police tapes for years, most recently last summer when a federal appeals court ruled in the case brought by the City Council, known as the Common Council, seeking to make the tapes public. The case arose when the council subpoenaed Mr. Buttigieg in 2012 to hand over the recordings. The city attorney asked a federal court to rule whether the mayor could comply. A federal district judge initially decided that some of the recordings could be made public, but an appellate court threw out the case entirely, saying it was not a matter for the federal judiciary. The issue was returned to the state judicial system, in the St. Joseph County courts, where it remains. The city has withdrawn from the fight, leaving it between the council and the police officers, who don’t want the tapes released. As Mr. Buttigieg campaigns for president well beyond Indiana’s borders, the tapes case and his relations with minorities hang over him. He points out that when he cruised to re-election in 2015, he defeated an African-American primary challenger even in the city’s heavily black Second District. There are some who say the tapes will never be made public. Others, including Ms. Williams-Preston, the current City Council member from the Second District, expect them to come out and to include material that could inflame racial divisions. “We have to prepare for that as a community,” she said. Whenever it happens, she said, Mr. Buttigieg, whose term ends this year, will likely be far away from South Bend. Ms. Williams-Preston, a trainer of special education teachers, is running to take over his job. “In our culture we want to find a hero,” she said. “But I want people to understand the story of South Bend. Any good story has an imperfect hero, where they struggle with something and they overcome. I’m not sure Pete’s completely overcome. But we’ve given him the opportunity to struggle with some issues.”   

Supported by The Long Run By Trip Gabriel and Alexander Burns SOUTH BEND, Ind. — Pete Buttigieg had been mayor just 13 weeks when he faced a leadership crisis. It was March 2012, and 300 residents of South Bend, Ind., solemnly marched to the Martin Luther King Center to protest the killing in Florida of a black teenager, Trayvon Martin. A prominent figure at the demonstration was Darryl Boykins, South Bend’s first black police chief. Admired for teaching tennis and boxing to young people, he had been promoted to chief five years earlier after winning the respect of both black and white officers in a department that sometimes divided along racial lines. Mr. Buttigieg addressed the protesters, but seemed not to interact with Mr. Boykins. What no one in the crowd knew was that the police top brass were in turmoil — shaken by allegations that Mr. Boykins had improperly taped phone calls of senior white officers who were said to have used racist language, including about him. With federal prosecutors scrutinizing Mr. Boykins, the 29-year-old mayor fired the veteran police chief just before the Trayvon Martin protest. No action was taken against the officers. Precisely what they said on the tapes of their department phone calls is unknown to the public: Mr. Buttigieg has refused to release them, saying the matter is still being resolved in court. [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join our conversation about the 2020 presidential race.] In the weeks, months and years that followed, the removal of Mr. Boykins unleashed a blizzard of claims, counterclaims and lawsuits, as well as anguish among South Bend’s minority residents over whether an ambitious white mayor had sided with white police officers against a black chief. The day after Mr. Boykins’s dismissal, he was applauded at a gathering of 100 officers, council members and clergy. The events played out against a backdrop of frustration among some African-Americans that they have not benefited equally from an economic resurgence in South Bend, which Mr. Buttigieg extols in his presidential bid. As Mr. Buttigieg seeks the Democratic nomination in a party whose base is anchored by minority voters, his handling of Mr. Boykins’ dismissal and its messy aftermath raise questions whether the mayor either misunderstood or mishandled sensitivities surrounding race and policing in the place he knew best, a city which is 37 percent black and Latino. “It felt stomach-churning,” Mr. Buttigieg recalled of the night of the 2012 protest, speaking in an interview. “To know that that same day, we were at what even then I understood was going to be the beginning of an incredibly painful and divisive moment of race relations in my city.” At that time, Mr. Buttigieg said he removed his police chief because he had lost faith in him after discovering the F.B.I. was investigating him for secretly taping officers’ phone calls. The chief sued the city for racial discrimination over his firing and won $50,000 in 2013. Four white officers sued the city for invasion of privacy and defamation and won a $500,000 payout the same year. In a political memoir released this year, Mr. Buttigieg wrote that the police tapes case “affected my relationship with the African-American community in particular for years to come.” Some minority leaders in South Bend say the case is an example of tone deafness on the part of a rising star in the 2020 Democratic field. Mr. Buttigieg, the first openly gay candidate and the first millennial to seek the presidency, has received a burst of attention and support — measured in $7 million in donations, unexpected strength in polls and mostly positive news coverage. [Check out our tracker of the 2020 Democratic candidate field.] On Sunday, he kicked off his campaign with a rally in a once-derelict Studebaker auto plant, now sheathed in high-tech glass and home to new businesses. It was evidence of the “turnaround” story of South Bend the mayor tells to rebut skeptics who say America has never elevated a mayor to the White House — much less one who governs fewer citizens than fit in some Big Ten football stadiums. His accomplishments include the commercial revival of the downtown, a bump-up of 12,000 jobs over his two terms, and the demolition or repair of over 1,000 decrepit houses to attack urban blight. But there were few people of color at his rally. The former Democratic consultant David Axelrod, a friend of the mayor’s, noted in a Tweet: “Crowd seems very large, very impressive but also very white — an obstacle he will have to overcome.” Regina Williams-Preston, who represents a majority black district on the South Bend City Council, called Mr. Buttigieg “a smart guy, a nice guy,” but added, “We have to look past the polish and really look at the policy.” She said minority activists pushed for years for a citizens’ review board that would have a role in police discipline and promotions. At Mr. Buttigieg’s State of the City speech in 2017, she was astonished to hear him cite a longstanding group, the Board of Public Safety, which the mayor appoints, to boast the city now had a citizens’ review board. “Citizens had asked for a citizens’ review board, and for him to say now we have one, in fact it’s the same thing we’ve always had, that was really disingenuous,” Ms. Williams-Preston said. “Just because you say that doesn’t make it so. To me it was a betrayal.” At issue in the police taping story are some of the most charged issues in municipal and national politics, including surveillance and personal privacy, government transparency and allegations of racism and unlawful behavior by the police. Kareemah Fowler, the South Bend city clerk and a political ally of Mr. Buttigieg, said she believed the mayor had worked hard “trying to bridge the gap” between African-Americans and whites in the city. But Ms. Fowler, whose 2015 campaign backed by Mr. Buttigieg made her the first African-American to hold a full-time executive office in the county, acknowledged that Mr. Buttigieg’s record had not translated into enthusiastic support among black voters for his presidential campaign. She said the police tapes controversy was a painful episode for the city — and for a young mayor, she said, who had “learned a lot from that experience.” “Think about his background and where he comes from — Harvard grad, his parents are two professors,” Ms. Fowler said. “He’d probably never been in an environment, prior to that, where he’d had to deal with racial tension.” Mr. Buttigieg has appointed two white chiefs since ending Mr. Boykins’s tenure. The city has introduced strategies to increase minority trust of officers — implementing body cameras and implicit bias training for officers, and uploading use-of-force incident reports online. But still, minority representation on the department remains low. Only 5 percent of officers were African-American and 5 percent Hispanic in 2018, a slight decline from the previous year. “Over the years we have had probably 20 minority officers who left their jobs,” said Derek Dieter, a retired South Bend police officer and former City Council president, who is white. Critics of the mayor say he was too willing to settle multiple lawsuits over the police tapes to make the issue go away, ultimately costing the city close to $2 million. The council itself sued the mayor, trying to get access to the tapes, a case still being litigated, arguing there was no reason for him to withhold them. Mr. Buttigieg disputes that. Federal and state wiretapping laws, he said, prohibit him from releasing the tapes. But he also acknowledged that he failed to understand early on the broader racial dimensions of the tapes case, viewing it only “in very legalistic terms.” “The more that it went on,” he said, “the more protracted and divisive and expensive the issue became, the more clear it was to me there were a lot of other issues at stake that — as not just the policy leader but symbolic leader of the community — I had a lot of responsibility over healing racial divisions, of which this particular incident was just the tip of the iceberg.” Today none of the four officers heard on the tapes, who held senior roles in the department, still work there. Mr. Buttigieg, who said he has never listened to the tapes because of legal restrictions, doesn’t know if the officers made racist remarks or spoke of illegal activities, as alleged in court filings. The mayor pointed to settlements the city signed with Mr. Boykins and the officers in which all parties acknowledged the absence of evidence of “illegal activity by the plaintiffs” and denied the officers “used any racist word against former Police Chief Darryl Boykins.” So why did Mr. Buttigieg fire Mr. Boykins in the first place? He maintains he was pressured by federal prosecutors. In “Shortest Way Home,” his memoir published in February, he writes that “a message came through” from prosecutors that he must push out Mr. Boykins or they would file charges against him for violating the Federal Wiretap Act. Officers in the department had complained to the U.S. Attorney’s Office for Northern Indiana that the chief illegally recorded their phone calls and had threatened to use the tapes against them. The mayor speculates in his book that prosecutors were trying to duck responsibility for “taking down a beloved African-American police chief” by getting Mr. Buttigieg to fire him instead. He repeated the explanation this week. “It was made very clear to me by the F.B.I. and the U.S. Attorney that either we would take employment action or there would be indictments,” he said. Mr. Boykins’s lawyer, Tom Dixon, said that when he first heard this explanation, invoked by Mr. Buttigieg in 2012, a red flag went up. He asked an assistant prosecutor in the U.S. Attorney’s office, a lawyer he knew from church, about the mayor’s assertion. “He said, ‘Tom, that explanation is so contrary to the protocols of U.S. Attorneys’ offices,”’ Mr. Dixon recalled. “‘We never would condition a determination on prosecuting or not prosecuting based on an employment decision. It would never happen.” Mr. Boykins has insisted that the recordings were made inadvertently, as part of a longstanding police department practice of taping some phone lines. The U.S. Attorney informed the city that after a review of the law, no charges would be brought against Mr. Boykins. After Mr. Buttigieg dismissed Mr. Boykins in March 2012 by asking for his resignation, Mr. Boykins submitted and then rescinded it; Mr. Buttigieg then demoted the chief to the rank of captain. He has since retired. Mr. Boykins did not respond to messages seeking comment. One person who did hear the tapes was the police communications director, Karen DePaepe. In court filings, she described them as “discriminatory racial comments of high ranking officers” in the department, and said she told Mr. Boykins about them. She also heard “something I believe to be possibly illegal.” Eleven days after Mr. Boykins’s removal as chief, Ms. DePaepe, who had made eight cassettes of the phone calls and given them to the chief, was fired. In an interview that night, she told The South Bend Tribune that Mr. Buttigieg’s chief of staff, Mike Schmuhl — who is today his presidential campaign manager — threatened her with arrest if she spoke publicly. “He said, ‘Now you understand that...you and no one else is allowed to discuss the federal investigation or anything that was recorded,’” Ms. DePaepe said she was told by Mr. Schmuhl, according to the newspaper. “‘And if you or anyone else does, you will be arrested.’” The city paid Ms. DePaepe $235,000 in 2014 to settle a suit she brought over defamation and other claims. As part of her settlement, she agreed not to discuss what was on the tapes. A spokesman for the Buttigieg campaign said Mr. Schmuhl recalled his conversation with Ms. DePaepe differently than reported by the newspaper. Ever since Mr. Buttigieg was first elected in 2011, many in South Bend took for granted that he aspired to higher office, with the support of the local Democratic machine, and was carefully building a record of accomplishments. One of those goals was bringing businesses and people back downtown. After the city directed tens of millions of dollars to pedestrian-friendly streets and incentives for developers, new hotels, restaurants and apartments sprang up. Decades of deindustrialization since Studebaker closed its auto plant in the 1960s — and the city lost a quarter of its residents — has been stanched. The population has grown a modest 1 percent, to 102,000, under the mayor. In his State of the City address last month, Mr. Buttigieg received wave after wave of applause as he ticked off these achievements. “When I go on the road, I talk about our experience as a metaphor for what needs to happen in our country,” he said. But the benefits have not flowed equally to South Bend’s large minority communities. Some of the data is dismal. Though the overall poverty rate has fallen since Mr. Buttigieg took office, poverty among African-Americans stubbornly remains almost twice as high as for African-Americans nationwide. The city has one of the highest eviction rates in the country, which has doubled under the mayor, according to the Eviction Lab at Princeton University. In households with working adults, 54 percent do not earn enough to meet a “survival budget,” according to the United Way. The downtown may be a vibrant draw once again for residents, but not everyone can participate. “You’ve got black people, we’re outside looking in the window at folks enjoying a steak,” said Mario Sims, a pastor and community activist. Mr. Sims has led protests over the police tapes for years, most recently last summer when a federal appeals court ruled in the case brought by the City Council, known as the Common Council, seeking to make the tapes public. The case arose when the council subpoenaed Mr. Buttigieg in 2012 to hand over the recordings. The city attorney asked a federal court to rule whether the mayor could comply. A federal district judge initially decided that some of the recordings could be made public, but an appellate court threw out the case entirely, saying it was not a matter for the federal judiciary. The issue was returned to the state judicial system, in the St. Joseph County courts, where it remains. The city has withdrawn from the fight, leaving it between the council and the police officers, who don’t want the tapes released. As Mr. Buttigieg campaigns for president well beyond Indiana’s borders, the tapes case and his relations with minorities hang over him. He points out that when he cruised to re-election in 2015, he defeated an African-American primary challenger even in the city’s heavily black Second District. There are some who say the tapes will never be made public. Others, including Ms. Williams-Preston, the current City Council member from the Second District, expect them to come out and to include material that could inflame racial divisions. “We have to prepare for that as a community,” she said. Whenever it happens, she said, Mr. Buttigieg, whose term ends this year, will likely be far away from South Bend. Ms. Williams-Preston, a trainer of special education teachers, is running to take over his job. “In our culture we want to find a hero,” she said. “But I want people to understand the story of South Bend. Any good story has an imperfect hero, where they struggle with something and they overcome. I’m not sure Pete’s completely overcome. But we’ve given him the opportunity to struggle with some issues.”   Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — On the campaign trail, Democratic presidential contender Pete Buttigieg blasts Vice President Mike Pence's cultural and religious conservatism. But as the mayor of Indiana's fourth largest city, his tone toward the state's Republican former governor was more muted. During the four years in which they overlapped in Indiana politics, Buttigieg, the South Bend mayor, had a cordial relationship with Pence. The two collaborated on economic development issues . Buttigieg presented Pence with a South Bend promotional T-shirt that said "I (heart) SB." And at ceremonial events, Pence would lavish Buttigieg with praise. The relationship between the two men has come under scrutiny as Buttigieg's campaign becomes a surprise hit, raking in $7 million during the first quarter. As he formally launches his White House campaign on Sunday, the gay mayor has emerged as a celebrated voice for LGBT equality and religious tolerance. And Buttigieg has hardened his rhetoric toward Pence, using President Donald Trump's vice president as a foil representing an oppressive opposition. At a recent LGBT event, Buttigieg spoke of the importance of his marriage to his husband, Chasten, and framed his sexuality in religious terms. "If me being gay was a choice, it was a choice that was made far, far above my pay grade," Buttigieg said. "And that's the thing I wish the Mike Pences of the world would understand: that if you've got a problem with who I am, your problem is not with me. Your quarrel, sir, is with my creator." He has previously called Pence's religious conservatism a "fanatical" ideology. By Buttigieg's own admission in his campaign memoir, his relationship with Pence is "complicated." In an interview with CNBC that aired on Thursday, Pence said they had a "great working relationship" and criticized the mayor's characterization of his religious beliefs. "He knows better," Pence said. "He knows me." The complex dynamic between Buttigieg and Pence reflects a connection born of political necessity between two men on the cusp of unlikely political and personal paths. And to some fellow Indiana Democrats, it was frustrating. In a state with few influential Democrats, some hoped to tap into Buttigieg's burgeoning political celebrity to help them rebut Pence and his policies, according to two party strategists who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss a sensitive internal debate. But they found he was often reluctant to take on the then-governor directly or forcefully. In early 2015, Pence was grappling with an HIV outbreak in southern Indiana and facing calls from political leaders, including some fellow Republicans, to respond by approving a needle exchange program. Buttigieg, who was months away from publicly coming out as gay, was largely absent from that debate. Pence caused a national uproar that year by signing a "religious freedom" law criticized as anti-LGBT. Republicans including the mayor of Indianapolis demanded that the governor and the GOP legislature "fix this law" and "do so immediately." Buttigieg criticized Statehouse politicians for the "most embarrassing incident" and tweeted he was "disappointed" Pence signed the bill. But several weeks later, as the controversy raged, Buttigieg attended a Pence event in South Bend. The mayor told the South Bend Tribune, "I'm focused on how we can work together across city limits and across the aisle." "With respect to Pence's worst blunder, his most difficult controversy, Mayor Pete was not leading the charge against him," said Robert Dion, a political science professor at the University of Evansville in southern Indiana. "If you're a Democratic mayor in a Republican state and you rely on friendly relations with the General Assembly, you don't necessarily want to be lobbing bombs all the time. But that should not preclude someone from speaking out forcefully on a pressing civil rights issue." Buttigieg publicly came out as gay about three months after Pence signed the "religious freedom" law. In his book, Buttigieg acknowledged that he passed up the chance to urge Pence in person to veto the measure. "I wish I could say I made a good effort to talk him out of it, but it was clear from the look in his eyes that he had made up his mind," he wrote, referring to a meeting in which Pence told Buttigieg and other mayors he planned to sign the legislation. As mayor, Buttigieg's allies argue he had to maintain a cordial relationship with a governor who held sway over money sorely needed in South Bend. "It doesn't help your city if you have an adversarial relationship with the sitting governor, and Mayor Buttigieg recognized that," said Greg Goodnight, the Democratic mayor of Kokomo, Indiana, who supports Buttigieg's White House ambitions. For example, one of Pence's last major policy achievements as governor was a program that awarded funding to several regions for redevelopment, including $42 million for the greater South Bend area . During a ceremonial 2016 groundbreaking at a long-shuttered Studebaker factory, Buttigieg and Pence stood side by side and shook hands after scooping dirt with their shovels. "Where they agreed on issues, like economic development, the mayor worked with then-Gov. Pence for the good of his constituents and his city," Buttigieg spokeswoman Lis Smith said. "Where they disagreed, the mayor stood up to him, like when Pence embarrassed the state of Indiana with anti-LGBTQ laws, or when he wanted to turn away refugees from the state, or when Pence's policies hurt South Bend's workers." Still, some wish Buttigieg would play it less safe, particularly now that he's on a national stage. Tony Flora, president of the North Central Indiana AFL-CIO chapter, said the mayor says the right things but should expend more political capital. "I would look to Pete Buttigieg to be a louder voice and be more forceful," Flora said. "He came to our rallies, signed petitions and did make public remarks, but he could have been a bit more substantive instead of just making speeches — taking some action and being more supportive." Former Houston Mayor Annise Parker, who is a lesbian, said she sympathized with the complicated situation Buttigieg was in as mayor, especially when he dealt with Pence. "The answer that I came to, and I'm assuming Pete did as well, is that first and foremost, you are the mayor," said Parker, who is now the president and CEO of Victory Fund, a group that works to elect LGBT candidates. "You are not an activist. You are the mayor. And every time you speak, it has an impact on your city — for good or ill. And it's something you have to navigate." ___ Smith reported from Providence, Rhode Island.

Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — On the campaign trail, Democratic presidential contender Pete Buttigieg blasts Vice President Mike Pence's cultural and religious conservatism. But as the mayor of Indiana's fourth largest city, his tone toward the state's Republican former governor was more muted. During the four years in which they overlapped in Indiana politics, Buttigieg, the South Bend mayor, had a cordial relationship with Pence. The two collaborated on economic development issues . Buttigieg presented Pence with a South Bend promotional T-shirt that said "I (heart) SB." And at ceremonial events, Pence would lavish Buttigieg with praise. The relationship between the two men has come under scrutiny as Buttigieg's campaign becomes a surprise hit, raking in $7 million during the first quarter. As he formally launches his White House campaign on Sunday, the gay mayor has emerged as a celebrated voice for LGBT equality and religious tolerance. And Buttigieg has hardened his rhetoric toward Pence, using President Donald Trump's vice president as a foil representing an oppressive opposition. At a recent LGBT event, Buttigieg spoke of the importance of his marriage to his husband, Chasten, and framed his sexuality in religious terms. "If me being gay was a choice, it was a choice that was made far, far above my pay grade," Buttigieg said. "And that's the thing I wish the Mike Pences of the world would understand: that if you've got a problem with who I am, your problem is not with me. Your quarrel, sir, is with my creator." He has previously called Pence's religious conservatism a "fanatical" ideology. By Buttigieg's own admission in his campaign memoir, his relationship with Pence is "complicated." In an interview with CNBC that aired on Thursday, Pence said they had a "great working relationship" and criticized the mayor's characterization of his religious beliefs. "He knows better," Pence said. "He knows me." The complex dynamic between Buttigieg and Pence reflects a connection born of political necessity between two men on the cusp of unlikely political and personal paths. And to some fellow Indiana Democrats, it was frustrating. In a state with few influential Democrats, some hoped to tap into Buttigieg's burgeoning political celebrity to help them rebut Pence and his policies, according to two party strategists who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss a sensitive internal debate. But they found he was often reluctant to take on the then-governor directly or forcefully. In early 2015, Pence was grappling with an HIV outbreak in southern Indiana and facing calls from political leaders, including some fellow Republicans, to respond by approving a needle exchange program. Buttigieg, who was months away from publicly coming out as gay, was largely absent from that debate. Pence caused a national uproar that year by signing a "religious freedom" law criticized as anti-LGBT. Republicans including the mayor of Indianapolis demanded that the governor and the GOP legislature "fix this law" and "do so immediately." Buttigieg criticized Statehouse politicians for the "most embarrassing incident" and tweeted he was "disappointed" Pence signed the bill. But several weeks later, as the controversy raged, Buttigieg attended a Pence event in South Bend. The mayor told the South Bend Tribune, "I'm focused on how we can work together across city limits and across the aisle." "With respect to Pence's worst blunder, his most difficult controversy, Mayor Pete was not leading the charge against him," said Robert Dion, a political science professor at the University of Evansville in southern Indiana. "If you're a Democratic mayor in a Republican state and you rely on friendly relations with the General Assembly, you don't necessarily want to be lobbing bombs all the time. But that should not preclude someone from speaking out forcefully on a pressing civil rights issue." Buttigieg publicly came out as gay about three months after Pence signed the "religious freedom" law. In his book, Buttigieg acknowledged that he passed up the chance to urge Pence in person to veto the measure. "I wish I could say I made a good effort to talk him out of it, but it was clear from the look in his eyes that he had made up his mind," he wrote, referring to a meeting in which Pence told Buttigieg and other mayors he planned to sign the legislation. As mayor, Buttigieg's allies argue he had to maintain a cordial relationship with a governor who held sway over money sorely needed in South Bend. "It doesn't help your city if you have an adversarial relationship with the sitting governor, and Mayor Buttigieg recognized that," said Greg Goodnight, the Democratic mayor of Kokomo, Indiana, who supports Buttigieg's White House ambitions. For example, one of Pence's last major policy achievements as governor was a program that awarded funding to several regions for redevelopment, including $42 million for the greater South Bend area . During a ceremonial 2016 groundbreaking at a long-shuttered Studebaker factory, Buttigieg and Pence stood side by side and shook hands after scooping dirt with their shovels. "Where they agreed on issues, like economic development, the mayor worked with then-Gov. Pence for the good of his constituents and his city," Buttigieg spokeswoman Lis Smith said. "Where they disagreed, the mayor stood up to him, like when Pence embarrassed the state of Indiana with anti-LGBTQ laws, or when he wanted to turn away refugees from the state, or when Pence's policies hurt South Bend's workers." Still, some wish Buttigieg would play it less safe, particularly now that he's on a national stage. Tony Flora, president of the North Central Indiana AFL-CIO chapter, said the mayor says the right things but should expend more political capital. "I would look to Pete Buttigieg to be a louder voice and be more forceful," Flora said. "He came to our rallies, signed petitions and did make public remarks, but he could have been a bit more substantive instead of just making speeches — taking some action and being more supportive." Former Houston Mayor Annise Parker, who is a lesbian, said she sympathized with the complicated situation Buttigieg was in as mayor, especially when he dealt with Pence. "The answer that I came to, and I'm assuming Pete did as well, is that first and foremost, you are the mayor," said Parker, who is now the president and CEO of Victory Fund, a group that works to elect LGBT candidates. "You are not an activist. You are the mayor. And every time you speak, it has an impact on your city — for good or ill. And it's something you have to navigate." ___ Smith reported from Providence, Rhode Island.Supported by By The Associated Press DES MOINES, Iowa — Democratic presidential candidate Pete Buttigieg says President Donald Trump is "kind of like a Chinese finger trap — you know, the harder you pull, the more you get stuck" and warns that Democrats shouldn't get bogged down in trying to "knock him flat with some zinger." In Iowa for the first time since officially launching his campaign , Buttigieg discussed how to defeat Trump after drawing an audience of more than 1,600 people at a Des Moines rally Tuesday night. "We've got to acknowledge — without giving an inch on the racism or xenophobia that played a role in that campaign — we've got to also pay attention to the things that make people susceptible to that message and make sure we're addressing them," said the mayor of South Bend, Indiana. The rally was one of the biggest campaign events yet for a 2020 contender in the Des Moines area, a particularly notable feat for a candidate who just over a month ago was barely registering in the polls. Buttigieg's main task now is turning grassroots energy into a real, sustainable movement. In an interview with The Associated Press, Buttigieg said Iowa — its caucuses produce the first votes of the presidential nominating season — "will be really central to our strategy." "There's a political style here that rhymes a lot with my home territory in Indiana," he said. "I think that the mechanics of a caucus really favor a style that involves a lot of engagement, which is how I like to practice politics ... of course there's a simple logistical advantage of it being the one early state that's within driving distance of my home." Asked whether Trump leaned on racial animus to win the White House, Buttigieg called the president out for playing "white guy identity politics." "By far the political movement that is most based on identity politics is Trumpism. It's based on white guy identity politics. It uses race to divide the working and middle class," he told the AP. "There are a lot of strategies to blame problems on people who look different or are of a different faith or even of a different sexuality or gender identity. ... It's a cynical political strategy that works in the short term but winds up weakening the whole country in the long term." Buttigieg has argued that he's uniquely positioned to take on Trump because he can appeal to the white working class voters who left the Democratic Party for the Republican. But in recent days, he's acknowledged he needs to address the lack of racial diversity among supporters at his events. In the AP interview, Buttigieg said he plans to make sure that "our organization and our substance reflect our commitment to diversity." He said he'll do that by hiring a diverse staff and by addressing a range of policies that affect minorities, including but not limited to criminal justice reform, education, homeownership and entrepreneurship. "I think any white candidate needs to show a level of consciousness around issues like white privilege," he said. But when asked whether he had experienced white privilege, he said that "part of privilege is not being very conscious of it, right?" He added: "You're much more conscious when you're at a disadvantage than ... when you are on the beneficial side of a bias. But there's no question that that's a factor that has impacted people in many different ways. And we need to be as alive to it as possible." Buttigieg said that to be able to create a diverse coalition without alienating white working-class voters, issues of racial justice need to be discussed in a unifying way. "I mean being pro-racial justice should not be skin off the back of any white voter," he said. "I think there's certainly an environment where sometimes these ideas are pitted against each other, where it's suggested, for example, that connecting with white working-class voters somehow means that you have to walk away somehow from our commitment to racial justice — but our commitment to racial justice is part of the bedrock of the moral authority of the Democratic Party." The South Bend mayor has surged from a relatively unknown candidate in the field to a media darling who's gained support in nationwide polling and posted a stronger-than-expected fundraising number in the first quarter. He's drawn attention for his plainspoken style, and the historic nature of his candidacy, as the first openly gay contender in a same-sex marriage. During the Des Moines rally, an audience member asked what he should tell his friends who say America isn't ready for a gay president. Buttigieg replied, "Tell your friends I said 'hi.'" The impact of his personal life on the campaign was on striking display at both of his Iowa events Tuesday. During a town hall meeting in Fort Dodge, after Buttigieg spoke about the need for marriage equality, a protester stood up and shouted, "You betray your baptism!" He was escorted out. Buttigieg joked to the crowd, "Coffee after church gets a little rowdy sometimes," then added: "We're so dug-in, in such passionate ways, and I respect that, too. That gentleman believes that what he is doing is in line with the will of the creator. I'd do it differently. We ought to be able to do it differently." In Des Moines, another protester shouted "Sodom and Gomorrah!" The crowd drowned him out with chants of "Pete! Pete! Pete!" Asked by the AP how he would win over a protester like the one in Fort Dodge if he could sit down with him, Buttigieg said, "I'm not sure he would want to sit down with me," but that he hoped others who have concerns about his candidacy would come to his events and ask a question, "so we could have a respectful exchange." "There are a lot of positions, there's a wide range, with fringes, in our politics. That's part of how politics works, and you shouldn't be in this if you aren't prepared to deal with that," he said. The turnout at the Des Moines event was unexpected, according to Polk County Democratic Party Chair Sean Bagniewski, who said Buttigieg's team had predicted at most 200 people would show up. The campaign didn't have any volunteers to take down information for enthusiastic supporters who wanted to be a part of the campaign. "It's a very narrow window to capture momentum and energy and attention, and if you miss the opportunity to match your staff and energy with the moment, you can miss your chance," Bagniewski said.

Supported by By The Associated Press DES MOINES, Iowa — Democratic presidential candidate Pete Buttigieg says President Donald Trump is "kind of like a Chinese finger trap — you know, the harder you pull, the more you get stuck" and warns that Democrats shouldn't get bogged down in trying to "knock him flat with some zinger." In Iowa for the first time since officially launching his campaign , Buttigieg discussed how to defeat Trump after drawing an audience of more than 1,600 people at a Des Moines rally Tuesday night. "We've got to acknowledge — without giving an inch on the racism or xenophobia that played a role in that campaign — we've got to also pay attention to the things that make people susceptible to that message and make sure we're addressing them," said the mayor of South Bend, Indiana. The rally was one of the biggest campaign events yet for a 2020 contender in the Des Moines area, a particularly notable feat for a candidate who just over a month ago was barely registering in the polls. Buttigieg's main task now is turning grassroots energy into a real, sustainable movement. In an interview with The Associated Press, Buttigieg said Iowa — its caucuses produce the first votes of the presidential nominating season — "will be really central to our strategy." "There's a political style here that rhymes a lot with my home territory in Indiana," he said. "I think that the mechanics of a caucus really favor a style that involves a lot of engagement, which is how I like to practice politics ... of course there's a simple logistical advantage of it being the one early state that's within driving distance of my home." Asked whether Trump leaned on racial animus to win the White House, Buttigieg called the president out for playing "white guy identity politics." "By far the political movement that is most based on identity politics is Trumpism. It's based on white guy identity politics. It uses race to divide the working and middle class," he told the AP. "There are a lot of strategies to blame problems on people who look different or are of a different faith or even of a different sexuality or gender identity. ... It's a cynical political strategy that works in the short term but winds up weakening the whole country in the long term." Buttigieg has argued that he's uniquely positioned to take on Trump because he can appeal to the white working class voters who left the Democratic Party for the Republican. But in recent days, he's acknowledged he needs to address the lack of racial diversity among supporters at his events. In the AP interview, Buttigieg said he plans to make sure that "our organization and our substance reflect our commitment to diversity." He said he'll do that by hiring a diverse staff and by addressing a range of policies that affect minorities, including but not limited to criminal justice reform, education, homeownership and entrepreneurship. "I think any white candidate needs to show a level of consciousness around issues like white privilege," he said. But when asked whether he had experienced white privilege, he said that "part of privilege is not being very conscious of it, right?" He added: "You're much more conscious when you're at a disadvantage than ... when you are on the beneficial side of a bias. But there's no question that that's a factor that has impacted people in many different ways. And we need to be as alive to it as possible." Buttigieg said that to be able to create a diverse coalition without alienating white working-class voters, issues of racial justice need to be discussed in a unifying way. "I mean being pro-racial justice should not be skin off the back of any white voter," he said. "I think there's certainly an environment where sometimes these ideas are pitted against each other, where it's suggested, for example, that connecting with white working-class voters somehow means that you have to walk away somehow from our commitment to racial justice — but our commitment to racial justice is part of the bedrock of the moral authority of the Democratic Party." The South Bend mayor has surged from a relatively unknown candidate in the field to a media darling who's gained support in nationwide polling and posted a stronger-than-expected fundraising number in the first quarter. He's drawn attention for his plainspoken style, and the historic nature of his candidacy, as the first openly gay contender in a same-sex marriage. During the Des Moines rally, an audience member asked what he should tell his friends who say America isn't ready for a gay president. Buttigieg replied, "Tell your friends I said 'hi.'" The impact of his personal life on the campaign was on striking display at both of his Iowa events Tuesday. During a town hall meeting in Fort Dodge, after Buttigieg spoke about the need for marriage equality, a protester stood up and shouted, "You betray your baptism!" He was escorted out. Buttigieg joked to the crowd, "Coffee after church gets a little rowdy sometimes," then added: "We're so dug-in, in such passionate ways, and I respect that, too. That gentleman believes that what he is doing is in line with the will of the creator. I'd do it differently. We ought to be able to do it differently." In Des Moines, another protester shouted "Sodom and Gomorrah!" The crowd drowned him out with chants of "Pete! Pete! Pete!" Asked by the AP how he would win over a protester like the one in Fort Dodge if he could sit down with him, Buttigieg said, "I'm not sure he would want to sit down with me," but that he hoped others who have concerns about his candidacy would come to his events and ask a question, "so we could have a respectful exchange." "There are a lot of positions, there's a wide range, with fringes, in our politics. That's part of how politics works, and you shouldn't be in this if you aren't prepared to deal with that," he said. The turnout at the Des Moines event was unexpected, according to Polk County Democratic Party Chair Sean Bagniewski, who said Buttigieg's team had predicted at most 200 people would show up. The campaign didn't have any volunteers to take down information for enthusiastic supporters who wanted to be a part of the campaign. "It's a very narrow window to capture momentum and energy and attention, and if you miss the opportunity to match your staff and energy with the moment, you can miss your chance," Bagniewski said.Supported by By Reuters (Reuters) - Pete Buttigieg, the millennial-aged mayor of South Bend, Indiana, who has enjoyed a surge in opinion polls and a torrent of media coverage, formally launched a bid on Sunday for the 2020 Democratic presidential nomination. "It is time to walk away from the politics of the past and toward something totally different," he said at a launch event in South Bend.  No potential contender in the burgeoning Democratic field has seen as rapid a rise in the early stages of the campaign as Buttigieg, who has gone from obscure Midwestern politician to top-tier contender in a matter of weeks. At 37, Buttigieg becomes the youngest entrant in a field that features 77-year-old U.S. Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont and, likely soon, 76-year-old former Vice President Joe Biden - a contrast Buttigieg has embraced.  "I recognize the audacity of doing this as a Midwestern millennial mayor," he told the crowd. "More than a little bold —at age 37 — to seek the highest office in the land." The man known as "Mayor Pete" has styled himself as the voice of the millennial generation, often talking about what the United States might look like decades from now.  "I take that long view because I have to," Buttigieg said. "I come from that generation that grew up with school shootings as the norm, the generation that produced the bulk of the troops in the post-9/11 conflicts, the generation that is going to be on the business end of climate change for as long as we live."  Buttigieg is the first openly gay major presidential candidate, which has given him inroads into a Democratic base that increasingly values diversity and progressivism.  During the event, he frequently mentioned his husband, Chasten, and spoke of the struggle to legalize same-sex marriage.  "Our marriage exists by the grace of a single vote on the U.S. Supreme Court," he said.  As mayor of South Bend since 2012, he has presided over an economic turnaround that has brought new investment into the struggling northwestern Indiana industrial town, an achievement likely to be a central plank of his presidential campaign. Indeed, his kick-off event was held inside the cavernous former plant that once made Studebaker autos. It closed in 1963 and only now is being redeveloped. Polls of voters in Iowa and New Hampshire released last week showed Buttigieg in third place in both early-voting states, although still well behind Biden and Sanders. Buttigieg raised $7 million in the first quarter of the year, surpassing more established rivals such as U.S. Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts. More than a dozen Democrats have announced a run for the chance to take on President Donald Trump, a Republican, in the November 2020 general election. Democratic voters will begin the process of selecting a nominee in a series of contests beginning early next year. A former Rhodes Scholar, consultant for the firm McKinsey and Co and U.S. Navy reservist who served in Afghanistan, Buttigieg has the kind of background that could appeal to both moderates and progressives in the party.  But questions will persist about whether the mayor of an Indiana city of 100,000 residents is ready to run a nation of 330 million.   (Reporting by James Oliphant; Editing by Colleen Jenkins, Jonathan Oatis and Nick Zieminski)

Supported by By Reuters (Reuters) - Pete Buttigieg, the millennial-aged mayor of South Bend, Indiana, who has enjoyed a surge in opinion polls and a torrent of media coverage, formally launched a bid on Sunday for the 2020 Democratic presidential nomination. "It is time to walk away from the politics of the past and toward something totally different," he said at a launch event in South Bend.  No potential contender in the burgeoning Democratic field has seen as rapid a rise in the early stages of the campaign as Buttigieg, who has gone from obscure Midwestern politician to top-tier contender in a matter of weeks. At 37, Buttigieg becomes the youngest entrant in a field that features 77-year-old U.S. Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont and, likely soon, 76-year-old former Vice President Joe Biden - a contrast Buttigieg has embraced.  "I recognize the audacity of doing this as a Midwestern millennial mayor," he told the crowd. "More than a little bold —at age 37 — to seek the highest office in the land." The man known as "Mayor Pete" has styled himself as the voice of the millennial generation, often talking about what the United States might look like decades from now.  "I take that long view because I have to," Buttigieg said. "I come from that generation that grew up with school shootings as the norm, the generation that produced the bulk of the troops in the post-9/11 conflicts, the generation that is going to be on the business end of climate change for as long as we live."  Buttigieg is the first openly gay major presidential candidate, which has given him inroads into a Democratic base that increasingly values diversity and progressivism.  During the event, he frequently mentioned his husband, Chasten, and spoke of the struggle to legalize same-sex marriage.  "Our marriage exists by the grace of a single vote on the U.S. Supreme Court," he said.  As mayor of South Bend since 2012, he has presided over an economic turnaround that has brought new investment into the struggling northwestern Indiana industrial town, an achievement likely to be a central plank of his presidential campaign. Indeed, his kick-off event was held inside the cavernous former plant that once made Studebaker autos. It closed in 1963 and only now is being redeveloped. Polls of voters in Iowa and New Hampshire released last week showed Buttigieg in third place in both early-voting states, although still well behind Biden and Sanders. Buttigieg raised $7 million in the first quarter of the year, surpassing more established rivals such as U.S. Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts. More than a dozen Democrats have announced a run for the chance to take on President Donald Trump, a Republican, in the November 2020 general election. Democratic voters will begin the process of selecting a nominee in a series of contests beginning early next year. A former Rhodes Scholar, consultant for the firm McKinsey and Co and U.S. Navy reservist who served in Afghanistan, Buttigieg has the kind of background that could appeal to both moderates and progressives in the party.  But questions will persist about whether the mayor of an Indiana city of 100,000 residents is ready to run a nation of 330 million.   (Reporting by James Oliphant; Editing by Colleen Jenkins, Jonathan Oatis and Nick Zieminski)Supported by By The Associated Press GREENVILLE, South Carolina — Financial support from the LGBT community has helped Pete Buttigieg's 2020 presidential campaign defy expectations by raking in more than $7 million in just over two months. The money has come from grassroots supporters and big-dollar Hollywood donors who hope Buttigieg will make history — or at least the summer debate stage. The Buttigieg appeal was on display again this weekend when the mayor of South Bend, Indiana, and his husband separately headlined galas for two of the country's largest LGBT organizations. And the early haul shows no sign of slowing. President and CEO Annise Parker says Victory Fund, which invested $2 million in LGBT candidates in 2018, expects to endorse Buttigieg shortly after he formally joins the race.

Supported by By The Associated Press GREENVILLE, South Carolina — Financial support from the LGBT community has helped Pete Buttigieg's 2020 presidential campaign defy expectations by raking in more than $7 million in just over two months. The money has come from grassroots supporters and big-dollar Hollywood donors who hope Buttigieg will make history — or at least the summer debate stage. The Buttigieg appeal was on display again this weekend when the mayor of South Bend, Indiana, and his husband separately headlined galas for two of the country's largest LGBT organizations. And the early haul shows no sign of slowing. President and CEO Annise Parker says Victory Fund, which invested $2 million in LGBT candidates in 2018, expects to endorse Buttigieg shortly after he formally joins the race.Supported by By The Associated Press MARSHALLTOWN, Iowa — Democratic presidential contender Pete Buttigieg said Wednesday that he's proud of his record as mayor of South Bend, Indiana, but realizes some problems remain. "This is not a rags-to-riches story," he told The Associated Press after a campaign stop in Marshalltown. "This is a story about transforming our trajectory." His record overseeing the midsize Midwestern city of about 100,000 residents since 2012 has been scrutinized in recent weeks as his campaign has surged. While the median household income in South Bend has increased and the poverty rate has declined under his watch, Buttigieg's detractors have noted those figures lag statewide and national trends. But on Wednesday, Buttigieg, 37, said that he was proud of his work eliminating blighted properties and improving unemployment in the city and that "things have come to be headed in the right direction" in South Bend. "I'm not going around saying we've fixed every problem we've got, but I'm so proud of what we've done together," he said. The campaign stop in Iowa drew a strong turnout of around 150 voters to the backyard of a Marshalltown home. Also in attendance were three religious protesters, two of whom had trailed Buttigieg during his previous day of campaigning in Iowa. On Wednesday, the duo dressed as Buttigieg and the devil and set up a loudspeaker in the adjacent alleyway to amplify their message. Buttigieg, however, didn't acknowledge the protesters and spoke over them about issues such as veterans' health care and child care affordability. He also answered a question from a voter who identified herself as Christian about what he would do to protect religious freedom. "We support everybody's right to practice their faith. We also make sure that we have a system that protects anybody from harming somebody else, and just because your religion made you do it doesn't mean it's OK," he said. Following the event, Buttigieg shrugged off the protesters as par for the course for a candidate running for public office. "I think when you're in politics, especially at this level, you're going to see the good, the bad, the ugly and the peculiar," he told reporters. "Look, the next president is going to have to confront things a lot more challenging than being interrupted or having to talk over a little noise at an event," Buttigieg added. "So it may be irritating, but it's also part of the landscape."

Supported by By The Associated Press MARSHALLTOWN, Iowa — Democratic presidential contender Pete Buttigieg said Wednesday that he's proud of his record as mayor of South Bend, Indiana, but realizes some problems remain. "This is not a rags-to-riches story," he told The Associated Press after a campaign stop in Marshalltown. "This is a story about transforming our trajectory." His record overseeing the midsize Midwestern city of about 100,000 residents since 2012 has been scrutinized in recent weeks as his campaign has surged. While the median household income in South Bend has increased and the poverty rate has declined under his watch, Buttigieg's detractors have noted those figures lag statewide and national trends. But on Wednesday, Buttigieg, 37, said that he was proud of his work eliminating blighted properties and improving unemployment in the city and that "things have come to be headed in the right direction" in South Bend. "I'm not going around saying we've fixed every problem we've got, but I'm so proud of what we've done together," he said. The campaign stop in Iowa drew a strong turnout of around 150 voters to the backyard of a Marshalltown home. Also in attendance were three religious protesters, two of whom had trailed Buttigieg during his previous day of campaigning in Iowa. On Wednesday, the duo dressed as Buttigieg and the devil and set up a loudspeaker in the adjacent alleyway to amplify their message. Buttigieg, however, didn't acknowledge the protesters and spoke over them about issues such as veterans' health care and child care affordability. He also answered a question from a voter who identified herself as Christian about what he would do to protect religious freedom. "We support everybody's right to practice their faith. We also make sure that we have a system that protects anybody from harming somebody else, and just because your religion made you do it doesn't mean it's OK," he said. Following the event, Buttigieg shrugged off the protesters as par for the course for a candidate running for public office. "I think when you're in politics, especially at this level, you're going to see the good, the bad, the ugly and the peculiar," he told reporters. "Look, the next president is going to have to confront things a lot more challenging than being interrupted or having to talk over a little noise at an event," Buttigieg added. "So it may be irritating, but it's also part of the landscape."We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.

We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.Pete Buttigieg, the Democratic mayor of South Bend, Ind., announced his bid for the White House on Wednesday. He said his position as a less established candidate will enable him to bring “different ideas” to the table.          

Pete Buttigieg, the Democratic mayor of South Bend, Ind., announced his bid for the White House on Wednesday. He said his position as a less established candidate will enable him to bring “different ideas” to the table.          Supported by By The Associated Press SOUTH BEND, Ind. — Pete Buttigieg, the little-known Indiana mayor who has risen to prominence in the early stages of the 2020 Democratic presidential race, made his official campaign entrance Sunday by claiming the mantle of a youthful generation ready to reshape the country. "I recognize the audacity of doing this as a Midwestern millennial mayor," he said to cheers of "Pete, Pete, Pete" from an audience assembled in a former Studebaker auto plant. "More than a little bold, at age 37, to seek the highest office in the land." In the hours after his announcement, more than $1 million in donations poured in, said Lis Smith, speaking for the campaign. The South Bend mayor, a Rhodes scholar and Afghanistan War veteran who has been essentially campaigning since January, has joined a dozen-plus rivals vying to take on President Donald Trump. "The forces of change in our country today are tectonic," he said. "Forces that help to explain what made this current presidency even possible. That's why, this time, it's not just about winning an election — it's about winning an era." Buttigieg will return this week to Iowa and New Hampshire, which hold the nation's first nominating contests, to campaign as a full-fledged candidate now being taken more seriously. Over the past few months, Buttigieg has appeared frequently on national TV news and talk shows and developed a strong social media following with his message that the country needs "a new generation of leadership." Buttigieg's poll numbers have climbed. Some polls put him behind only Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders, who sought the party's nomination in 2016, and former Vice President Joe Biden, who has not yet said he's running. Buttigieg's campaign has raised more than $7 million in the first three months of this year, a total eclipsed by Sanders' leading $18 million but more than Sens. Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota and Cory Booker of New Jersey. "Right now, it's pretty fun," Buttigieg told The Associated Press last month while visiting South Carolina , where he was met by larger-than-expected crowds. His challenge is finding a way to sustain the momentum over the long term and avoiding becoming a "flavor-of-the-month" candidate. Scrutiny of his leadership in South Bend has increased, as has his criticism of Vice President Mike Pence , who was Indiana's governor when Buttigieg was in his first term as mayor. Buttigieg would be the first openly gay nominee of a major presidential party; he married his husband, Chasten, last year. He would be the first mayor to go directly to the White House. And he would be the youngest person to become president, turning 39 the day before the next inauguration, on Jan. 20, 2021. Theodore Roosevelt was 42 when he took office, while John F. Kennedy was 43 and Bill Clinton 46. The campaign kickoff speech echoed themes that have resonated with voters during Buttigieg's exploratory phase. He talks often about how political decisions shape people's lives, including his own — from serving as a lieutenant in the Navy Reserve in 2014, to being able to marry his husband and to not having to worry about how to pay for his father's hospital bills after his father's death this year. Buttigieg also says the best way for Democrats to defeat Trump may be to nominate a mayor experienced in helping to revive a Midwestern city once described as "dying," rather than a politician who has spent years "marinating" in Washington. He has criticized Trump's campaign slogan, "Make America Great Again," saying the way to move the country forward is not to look backward or cling to an old way of life. "There's a myth being sold to industrial and rural communities: the myth that we can stop the clock and turn it back," he said. "It comes from people who think the only way to reach communities like ours is through resentment and nostalgia, selling an impossible promise of returning to a bygone era that was never as great as advertised to begin with." South Bend, which neighbors the University of Notre Dame, was hit hard by the decline of manufacturing, dating to the 1963 closing of the Studebaker auto plant that costs thousands of residents their jobs. The hulking, dilapidated factory loomed over the city for much of the past 60 years as what Buttigieg called a daily reminder of South Bend's city's past. Partially remodeled, it's now a mixed-use technology center outside downtown — and the setting for Bettigieg's announcement. The South Bend fire marshal's office said the rally drew over 4,500 inside and 1,500 outside. A steady stream of raindrops fell on speakers on the stage through the leaky roof. "I like that he's young," said Tom Lacy, a 62-year-old retiree who came from Peoria, Illinois, for the event with his wife, Candy, on their 35th wedding anniversary. "He's so relatable. He doesn't seem like a politician to me." Lacy said: "The contrast between him and our current president is unbelievable." Nausher Ahmad Sial, a 68-year-old developer from South Bend, said "we need to try new blood." Sial, who came to the U.S. from Pakistan 35 years ago, said he has worked with Buttigieg on development projects in the city and described the mayor as a "very honest, very fair guy." ___ This story has been corrected to reflect that Tom Lacy is 62, not 52.

Supported by By The Associated Press SOUTH BEND, Ind. — Pete Buttigieg, the little-known Indiana mayor who has risen to prominence in the early stages of the 2020 Democratic presidential race, made his official campaign entrance Sunday by claiming the mantle of a youthful generation ready to reshape the country. "I recognize the audacity of doing this as a Midwestern millennial mayor," he said to cheers of "Pete, Pete, Pete" from an audience assembled in a former Studebaker auto plant. "More than a little bold, at age 37, to seek the highest office in the land." In the hours after his announcement, more than $1 million in donations poured in, said Lis Smith, speaking for the campaign. The South Bend mayor, a Rhodes scholar and Afghanistan War veteran who has been essentially campaigning since January, has joined a dozen-plus rivals vying to take on President Donald Trump. "The forces of change in our country today are tectonic," he said. "Forces that help to explain what made this current presidency even possible. That's why, this time, it's not just about winning an election — it's about winning an era." Buttigieg will return this week to Iowa and New Hampshire, which hold the nation's first nominating contests, to campaign as a full-fledged candidate now being taken more seriously. Over the past few months, Buttigieg has appeared frequently on national TV news and talk shows and developed a strong social media following with his message that the country needs "a new generation of leadership." Buttigieg's poll numbers have climbed. Some polls put him behind only Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders, who sought the party's nomination in 2016, and former Vice President Joe Biden, who has not yet said he's running. Buttigieg's campaign has raised more than $7 million in the first three months of this year, a total eclipsed by Sanders' leading $18 million but more than Sens. Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota and Cory Booker of New Jersey. "Right now, it's pretty fun," Buttigieg told The Associated Press last month while visiting South Carolina , where he was met by larger-than-expected crowds. His challenge is finding a way to sustain the momentum over the long term and avoiding becoming a "flavor-of-the-month" candidate. Scrutiny of his leadership in South Bend has increased, as has his criticism of Vice President Mike Pence , who was Indiana's governor when Buttigieg was in his first term as mayor. Buttigieg would be the first openly gay nominee of a major presidential party; he married his husband, Chasten, last year. He would be the first mayor to go directly to the White House. And he would be the youngest person to become president, turning 39 the day before the next inauguration, on Jan. 20, 2021. Theodore Roosevelt was 42 when he took office, while John F. Kennedy was 43 and Bill Clinton 46. The campaign kickoff speech echoed themes that have resonated with voters during Buttigieg's exploratory phase. He talks often about how political decisions shape people's lives, including his own — from serving as a lieutenant in the Navy Reserve in 2014, to being able to marry his husband and to not having to worry about how to pay for his father's hospital bills after his father's death this year. Buttigieg also says the best way for Democrats to defeat Trump may be to nominate a mayor experienced in helping to revive a Midwestern city once described as "dying," rather than a politician who has spent years "marinating" in Washington. He has criticized Trump's campaign slogan, "Make America Great Again," saying the way to move the country forward is not to look backward or cling to an old way of life. "There's a myth being sold to industrial and rural communities: the myth that we can stop the clock and turn it back," he said. "It comes from people who think the only way to reach communities like ours is through resentment and nostalgia, selling an impossible promise of returning to a bygone era that was never as great as advertised to begin with." South Bend, which neighbors the University of Notre Dame, was hit hard by the decline of manufacturing, dating to the 1963 closing of the Studebaker auto plant that costs thousands of residents their jobs. The hulking, dilapidated factory loomed over the city for much of the past 60 years as what Buttigieg called a daily reminder of South Bend's city's past. Partially remodeled, it's now a mixed-use technology center outside downtown — and the setting for Bettigieg's announcement. The South Bend fire marshal's office said the rally drew over 4,500 inside and 1,500 outside. A steady stream of raindrops fell on speakers on the stage through the leaky roof. "I like that he's young," said Tom Lacy, a 62-year-old retiree who came from Peoria, Illinois, for the event with his wife, Candy, on their 35th wedding anniversary. "He's so relatable. He doesn't seem like a politician to me." Lacy said: "The contrast between him and our current president is unbelievable." Nausher Ahmad Sial, a 68-year-old developer from South Bend, said "we need to try new blood." Sial, who came to the U.S. from Pakistan 35 years ago, said he has worked with Buttigieg on development projects in the city and described the mayor as a "very honest, very fair guy." ___ This story has been corrected to reflect that Tom Lacy is 62, not 52.Supported by His rise is a sign that more L.G.B.T. people are finding spiritual homes in houses of faith.  By Steven Paulikas Mr. Paulikas is an Episcopal priest.  “I like Mayor Pete because the way he talks about being openly gay shows strength of character.” I heard this comment not at a political rally or an informal gathering of the like-minded, but in church. At my church, to be precise, during coffee hour following the weekly service. When the congregants sitting around the table in our church basement heard this opinion about the Democratic presidential candidate Pete Buttigieg, they all nodded in agreement. Mr. Buttigieg’s ability to articulate his sexual orientation through the lens of faith has captured public attention and drawn him into a theological spat with Vice President Mike Pence. The fact that the first openly gay major presidential candidate is also a Christian is indeed remarkable, a milestone in the visibility of L.G.B.T. people of faith. Yet it is also the result of a process that has been taking place in American religion for decades.  Pete Buttigieg is not the first openly gay Christian. Rather, he is the product of a slow-moving but steady trend among faith communities to acknowledge the inherent theological value of the spiritual experience of L.G.B.T. people. In the process, American religion is becoming less straight. Mr. Buttigieg’s popularity demonstrates the appetite for a mainstream narrative of religion beyond reflexive associations with social conservatism. But it also signals the budding of a queerer soul of this society. The L.G.B.T. community increasingly is finding a home in houses of faith. The latest Pew Research Center study found that just over half of L.G.B.T. adults claim a religious affiliation. The growing portion of organized religion that affirms same-sex marriage and queer leadership sits within this landscape alongside lively pockets of welcome within traditions with officially homophobic policies.  The United Methodist Church’s rejection this year of L.G.B.T.-affirming measures, for instance, was less an act of exclusion than the result of the inability of that church’s internal polity to keep pace with its flourishing ministry among L.G.B.T. Americans. But opinion among even Roman Catholics and evangelicals is increasingly affirming, and with support even higher among younger adherents, it is reasonable to conclude that American religion will continue to expand its embrace of queerness. Secular and nominally religious Americans can be forgiven for their surprise at this trend. Underneath the dominant narrative that equates religion with socially conservative causes, religious institutions have quietly been in productive — if contentious and sometimes violent — dialogue with queerness for decades. From pioneering figures like the civil rights leader and openly queer Episcopal priest Pauli Murray to the New York Fire Department chaplain and Sept. 11 hero Mychal Judge to Debbie Friedman’s indelible mark on Jewish sacred music, queerness has hovered around religion since the beginning of the gay liberation movement of the 1960s.  Though often hidden, these contributions to religious life at large helped shape the world of faith from the inside even as most religious institutions inflicted untold pain and suffering on their L.G.B.T. members. As heavy a price as many queer people continue to pay within their faith communities, prolonged struggle is a familiar trope in the history of lasting and meaningful religious reform. Enter Pete Buttigieg. I’ll admit that his candidacy feels personal to me. Like him, I’m a gay Episcopalian from the Midwest. We’re roughly the same age, both have hard-to-pronounce names, and came out relatively late in life by today’s standards. I know well this cloth from which he is cut — the precocious young man driven to overachievement in order to beat back the unwanted but equally unavoidable truth of his sexuality.  When I was growing up in 1990s, there was no model of public leadership that included openly gay men, to say nothing of other forms of queerness that benefit from far less privilege. So I understand what Mr. Buttigieg means when he admitted that years ago he “would have done anything not to be gay.” What is often overlooked in society’s widening affirmation of L.G.B.T. people is the immense spiritual burden this exclusion has historically placed on the young. As queer youth seek to make their place in the world, most have had no choice but to abandon homophobic structures, perhaps most significantly the religious institutions in which they were raised. The only other option was to remain closeted.  This is implicitly the choice Mr. Pence presents to Mr. Buttigieg and the rest of us who are like him — either deny who you are or be excluded from the community of faith. So it is difficult to understate the symbolic and spiritual power of the kickoff of Mr. Buttigieg’s presidential campaign on Sunday. There was no question that this candidate was a gay man. At the conclusion of his speech, he embraced his husband, Chasten, to whom he was married in a service at South Bend’s Episcopal cathedral last year.  Chasten Buttigieg is significant to the gay community in much the same way Michelle Obama is to African-Americans — an affable and charismatic political spouse who affirms his husband’s commitment to his minority identity. So here, standing before a cheering crowd and the national media, were two queer people whose manner of life and intrinsic being enjoyed the blessing of their faith. Our political system is not designed to be an instrument of salvation, encouraging as it does the self-interests of the figures who inhabit it. But they do reveal the spirit of our society, which is why this moment felt particularly spiritually poignant. When I felt the calling to be ordained as a teenager, I resolved to push my sexuality as deep down from view as I could for fear that it would hinder me from entering the vocation I dreamed of. Yet it was my church that ultimately coaxed me out into the fullness of the person God created me to be.  This was not an act of accommodation on the part of the church, but a fulfillment of its ancient mission of liberating souls from spiritual bondage. As Christians and Jews enter the holy season of Easter and Passover, the holiday will be the queerest — and most spiritually liberated — we have ever experienced. But only until next year. Steven Paulikas (@stevenpaulikas) is the rector of All Saints’ Church in Brooklyn. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported by His rise is a sign that more L.G.B.T. people are finding spiritual homes in houses of faith.  By Steven Paulikas Mr. Paulikas is an Episcopal priest.  “I like Mayor Pete because the way he talks about being openly gay shows strength of character.” I heard this comment not at a political rally or an informal gathering of the like-minded, but in church. At my church, to be precise, during coffee hour following the weekly service. When the congregants sitting around the table in our church basement heard this opinion about the Democratic presidential candidate Pete Buttigieg, they all nodded in agreement. Mr. Buttigieg’s ability to articulate his sexual orientation through the lens of faith has captured public attention and drawn him into a theological spat with Vice President Mike Pence. The fact that the first openly gay major presidential candidate is also a Christian is indeed remarkable, a milestone in the visibility of L.G.B.T. people of faith. Yet it is also the result of a process that has been taking place in American religion for decades.  Pete Buttigieg is not the first openly gay Christian. Rather, he is the product of a slow-moving but steady trend among faith communities to acknowledge the inherent theological value of the spiritual experience of L.G.B.T. people. In the process, American religion is becoming less straight. Mr. Buttigieg’s popularity demonstrates the appetite for a mainstream narrative of religion beyond reflexive associations with social conservatism. But it also signals the budding of a queerer soul of this society. The L.G.B.T. community increasingly is finding a home in houses of faith. The latest Pew Research Center study found that just over half of L.G.B.T. adults claim a religious affiliation. The growing portion of organized religion that affirms same-sex marriage and queer leadership sits within this landscape alongside lively pockets of welcome within traditions with officially homophobic policies.  The United Methodist Church’s rejection this year of L.G.B.T.-affirming measures, for instance, was less an act of exclusion than the result of the inability of that church’s internal polity to keep pace with its flourishing ministry among L.G.B.T. Americans. But opinion among even Roman Catholics and evangelicals is increasingly affirming, and with support even higher among younger adherents, it is reasonable to conclude that American religion will continue to expand its embrace of queerness. Secular and nominally religious Americans can be forgiven for their surprise at this trend. Underneath the dominant narrative that equates religion with socially conservative causes, religious institutions have quietly been in productive — if contentious and sometimes violent — dialogue with queerness for decades. From pioneering figures like the civil rights leader and openly queer Episcopal priest Pauli Murray to the New York Fire Department chaplain and Sept. 11 hero Mychal Judge to Debbie Friedman’s indelible mark on Jewish sacred music, queerness has hovered around religion since the beginning of the gay liberation movement of the 1960s.  Though often hidden, these contributions to religious life at large helped shape the world of faith from the inside even as most religious institutions inflicted untold pain and suffering on their L.G.B.T. members. As heavy a price as many queer people continue to pay within their faith communities, prolonged struggle is a familiar trope in the history of lasting and meaningful religious reform. Enter Pete Buttigieg. I’ll admit that his candidacy feels personal to me. Like him, I’m a gay Episcopalian from the Midwest. We’re roughly the same age, both have hard-to-pronounce names, and came out relatively late in life by today’s standards. I know well this cloth from which he is cut — the precocious young man driven to overachievement in order to beat back the unwanted but equally unavoidable truth of his sexuality.  When I was growing up in 1990s, there was no model of public leadership that included openly gay men, to say nothing of other forms of queerness that benefit from far less privilege. So I understand what Mr. Buttigieg means when he admitted that years ago he “would have done anything not to be gay.” What is often overlooked in society’s widening affirmation of L.G.B.T. people is the immense spiritual burden this exclusion has historically placed on the young. As queer youth seek to make their place in the world, most have had no choice but to abandon homophobic structures, perhaps most significantly the religious institutions in which they were raised. The only other option was to remain closeted.  This is implicitly the choice Mr. Pence presents to Mr. Buttigieg and the rest of us who are like him — either deny who you are or be excluded from the community of faith. So it is difficult to understate the symbolic and spiritual power of the kickoff of Mr. Buttigieg’s presidential campaign on Sunday. There was no question that this candidate was a gay man. At the conclusion of his speech, he embraced his husband, Chasten, to whom he was married in a service at South Bend’s Episcopal cathedral last year.  Chasten Buttigieg is significant to the gay community in much the same way Michelle Obama is to African-Americans — an affable and charismatic political spouse who affirms his husband’s commitment to his minority identity. So here, standing before a cheering crowd and the national media, were two queer people whose manner of life and intrinsic being enjoyed the blessing of their faith. Our political system is not designed to be an instrument of salvation, encouraging as it does the self-interests of the figures who inhabit it. But they do reveal the spirit of our society, which is why this moment felt particularly spiritually poignant. When I felt the calling to be ordained as a teenager, I resolved to push my sexuality as deep down from view as I could for fear that it would hinder me from entering the vocation I dreamed of. Yet it was my church that ultimately coaxed me out into the fullness of the person God created me to be.  This was not an act of accommodation on the part of the church, but a fulfillment of its ancient mission of liberating souls from spiritual bondage. As Christians and Jews enter the holy season of Easter and Passover, the holiday will be the queerest — and most spiritually liberated — we have ever experienced. But only until next year. Steven Paulikas (@stevenpaulikas) is the rector of All Saints’ Church in Brooklyn. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Supported by Buttigieg detaches progressive policy from the culture war. By David Brooks Opinion Columnist Pete Buttigieg has some kind of magic right now. His campaign bio, “Shortest Way Home,” was the 25th-best-selling book on Amazon when I checked on Monday. That put him just a few dozen places behind Michelle Obama, and thousands or tens of thousands of places ahead of Kamala Harris, Bernie Sanders and the other candidates who have campaign books out now. In a recent Iowa poll he surged to third place. His campaign just announced that it’s raised an impressive $7 million since January. And I can’t tell you how many Democrats in places as diverse as Nebraska, Indiana, New York and Washington have come up to me over the last few weeks raving about the guy. I met a superfan in Frederick, Md., who says that every few hours she calls the campaign to give another $10.  This is the biggest star-is-born moment since Lady Gaga started singing “Shallow.” Why are people so in love with the mayor of South Bend, Ind., who almost nobody had heard of until he did a CNN town hall on March 10? It’s important to remember that when Democrats vote next year, they’ll not only be choosing a policy alternative to Donald Trump, they’ll also be making a statement about what kind of country they want America to be. The Trump era has been all about dissolving moral norms and waging vicious attacks. This has been an era of culture war, class warfare and identity politics. It’s been an era in which call-out culture, reality TV melodrama and tribal grandstanding have overshadowed policymaking and the challenges of actually governing. The Buttigieg surge suggests that there are a lot of Democrats who want to say goodbye to all that. They don’t want to fight fire and divisiveness with more fire and divisiveness. They don’t want to fight white identity politics with another kind of identity politics. They are sick of the moral melodrama altogether. They just want a person who is more about governing than virtue-signaling, more about friendliness and basic decency than media circus and rhetorical war. Buttigieg’s secret is that he transcends many of the tensions that run through our society in a way that makes people on all sides feel comfortable. First, he is young and represents the rising generation, but he is also an older person’s idea of what a young person should be. He’d be the first millennial president, but Buttigieg doesn’t fit any of the stereotypes that have been affixed to America’s young people.  Young people are supposed to be woke social justice warriors who are disgusted by their elders. Buttigieg is the model young man who made his way impressing his elders — Harvard, Rhodes scholar, McKinsey, the Navy.  Young hipsters are supposed to flock to coastal places like Brooklyn and Portland; after college, Buttigieg returned to Indiana.  Young people are supposed to be anti-institutional, but Buttigieg is very institutional — his life has been defined by his service to organizations, not his rebellion against them. Second, he is gay and personifies the progress made by the L.G.B.T.Q. movement, but he doesn't do so in a way that feels threatening or transgressive to social conservatives. He has conservative family values; it’s just that his spouse is a husband, not a wife. He speaks comfortably about his faith and says that when he goes to church he prefers a conservative liturgy to anything experimental. Third, he is a localist and a Washington outsider, but he carries no populist resentment and can easily speak the language of the coastal elite. Buttigieg has spent his political career in Indiana, where pols are expected to go to county fairs and eat the catfish fillet and cheesecake on a stick. He wasn’t alive when the Studebaker plant shut down in South Bend, but he has the trauma of Midwestern deindustrialization in his bones. He lives in a house near his mother where the mortgage comes to about $450 a month. On the other hand, he was friends with Mark Zuckerberg at Harvard, earned a first at Oxford and thrived as a corporate consultant. Finally, he’s a progressive on policy issues, but he doesn’t sound like an angry revolutionary. Buttigieg’s policy positions are not all that different from the more identifiable leftist candidates. But he eschews grand ideological conflict.  “The whole point of politics is everyday life,” he said in his CNN town hall. His book is mostly about how as mayor he faced problems like snow removal and fixing potholes. His big achievements were renaming city streets, repairing the sewer system and tearing down derelict buildings. He says he’ll do whatever works. I’ve only met Buttigieg once, when we were seated at the same table at a dinner in Detroit a few months ago. He was smart, modest and self-effacing, and I can’t square that impression with his assumption that at 37 he’s qualified to be president of the United States.  But maybe that’s Buttigieg — he squares a lot of circles. He deftly detaches progressive policy positions from the culture war. He offers change without Sturm und Drang. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. David Brooks has been a columnist with The Times since 2003. He is the author of “The Road to Character” and the forthcoming book, “The Second Mountain.”  @nytdavidbrooks 

Supported by Buttigieg detaches progressive policy from the culture war. By David Brooks Opinion Columnist Pete Buttigieg has some kind of magic right now. His campaign bio, “Shortest Way Home,” was the 25th-best-selling book on Amazon when I checked on Monday. That put him just a few dozen places behind Michelle Obama, and thousands or tens of thousands of places ahead of Kamala Harris, Bernie Sanders and the other candidates who have campaign books out now. In a recent Iowa poll he surged to third place. His campaign just announced that it’s raised an impressive $7 million since January. And I can’t tell you how many Democrats in places as diverse as Nebraska, Indiana, New York and Washington have come up to me over the last few weeks raving about the guy. I met a superfan in Frederick, Md., who says that every few hours she calls the campaign to give another $10.  This is the biggest star-is-born moment since Lady Gaga started singing “Shallow.” Why are people so in love with the mayor of South Bend, Ind., who almost nobody had heard of until he did a CNN town hall on March 10? It’s important to remember that when Democrats vote next year, they’ll not only be choosing a policy alternative to Donald Trump, they’ll also be making a statement about what kind of country they want America to be. The Trump era has been all about dissolving moral norms and waging vicious attacks. This has been an era of culture war, class warfare and identity politics. It’s been an era in which call-out culture, reality TV melodrama and tribal grandstanding have overshadowed policymaking and the challenges of actually governing. The Buttigieg surge suggests that there are a lot of Democrats who want to say goodbye to all that. They don’t want to fight fire and divisiveness with more fire and divisiveness. They don’t want to fight white identity politics with another kind of identity politics. They are sick of the moral melodrama altogether. They just want a person who is more about governing than virtue-signaling, more about friendliness and basic decency than media circus and rhetorical war. Buttigieg’s secret is that he transcends many of the tensions that run through our society in a way that makes people on all sides feel comfortable. First, he is young and represents the rising generation, but he is also an older person’s idea of what a young person should be. He’d be the first millennial president, but Buttigieg doesn’t fit any of the stereotypes that have been affixed to America’s young people.  Young people are supposed to be woke social justice warriors who are disgusted by their elders. Buttigieg is the model young man who made his way impressing his elders — Harvard, Rhodes scholar, McKinsey, the Navy.  Young hipsters are supposed to flock to coastal places like Brooklyn and Portland; after college, Buttigieg returned to Indiana.  Young people are supposed to be anti-institutional, but Buttigieg is very institutional — his life has been defined by his service to organizations, not his rebellion against them. Second, he is gay and personifies the progress made by the L.G.B.T.Q. movement, but he doesn't do so in a way that feels threatening or transgressive to social conservatives. He has conservative family values; it’s just that his spouse is a husband, not a wife. He speaks comfortably about his faith and says that when he goes to church he prefers a conservative liturgy to anything experimental. Third, he is a localist and a Washington outsider, but he carries no populist resentment and can easily speak the language of the coastal elite. Buttigieg has spent his political career in Indiana, where pols are expected to go to county fairs and eat the catfish fillet and cheesecake on a stick. He wasn’t alive when the Studebaker plant shut down in South Bend, but he has the trauma of Midwestern deindustrialization in his bones. He lives in a house near his mother where the mortgage comes to about $450 a month. On the other hand, he was friends with Mark Zuckerberg at Harvard, earned a first at Oxford and thrived as a corporate consultant. Finally, he’s a progressive on policy issues, but he doesn’t sound like an angry revolutionary. Buttigieg’s policy positions are not all that different from the more identifiable leftist candidates. But he eschews grand ideological conflict.  “The whole point of politics is everyday life,” he said in his CNN town hall. His book is mostly about how as mayor he faced problems like snow removal and fixing potholes. His big achievements were renaming city streets, repairing the sewer system and tearing down derelict buildings. He says he’ll do whatever works. I’ve only met Buttigieg once, when we were seated at the same table at a dinner in Detroit a few months ago. He was smart, modest and self-effacing, and I can’t square that impression with his assumption that at 37 he’s qualified to be president of the United States.  But maybe that’s Buttigieg — he squares a lot of circles. He deftly detaches progressive policy positions from the culture war. He offers change without Sturm und Drang. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. David Brooks has been a columnist with The Times since 2003. He is the author of “The Road to Character” and the forthcoming book, “The Second Mountain.”  @nytdavidbrooks Supported by By The Associated Press AMHERST, N.H. — Some Democratic contenders for president aren't saying whether they would re-open investigations into President Donald Trump if they were to oust him from the White House in 2020. Their reluctance comes as some liberals, including fellow 2020 challenger Sen. Elizabeth Warren, have increased the pressure on Democratic leaders to pursue impeachment following the release of a redacted version of the Mueller report. During recent stops in early-voting states, two U.S. senators in the race and South Bend, Indiana, Mayor Pete Buttigieg wouldn't say whether they'd press the Justice Department to reopen investigations into Trump. "Well, let's see because when I'm elected president that will still be about two years from now, so ask me that question then," Sen. Kamala Harris of California said Saturday while campaigning in South Carolina. Sen. Cory Booker of New Jersey and Buttigieg focused on existing investigations of the president. Campaigning in Nevada on Friday, Booker said it's premature to say whether he would instruct his attorney general to reopen the Trump investigations if he's elected president. "You are talking about January 2021," Booker told reporters in Reno. "We have a lot of investigations that are going on right now." Buttigieg echoed that sentiment Friday as he prepared to campaign in New Hampshire this weekend, saying that "it depends what the basis for it is." "It's certainly the case that there are various unanswered questions," he said. "I don't know that that has to happen from a president directing an attorney general to do something, though, because a lot of this just works through the legal system." A voter attending a house party for Warren in New Hampshire on Saturday thanked her for calling for impeachment. However, some Democratic voters are wary of how impeachment could embolden Trump supporters. ___ Associated Press writer Juana Summers in Orangeburg, South Carolina, and Scott Sonner in Reno, Nevada, contributed to this report.

Supported by By The Associated Press AMHERST, N.H. — Some Democratic contenders for president aren't saying whether they would re-open investigations into President Donald Trump if they were to oust him from the White House in 2020. Their reluctance comes as some liberals, including fellow 2020 challenger Sen. Elizabeth Warren, have increased the pressure on Democratic leaders to pursue impeachment following the release of a redacted version of the Mueller report. During recent stops in early-voting states, two U.S. senators in the race and South Bend, Indiana, Mayor Pete Buttigieg wouldn't say whether they'd press the Justice Department to reopen investigations into Trump. "Well, let's see because when I'm elected president that will still be about two years from now, so ask me that question then," Sen. Kamala Harris of California said Saturday while campaigning in South Carolina. Sen. Cory Booker of New Jersey and Buttigieg focused on existing investigations of the president. Campaigning in Nevada on Friday, Booker said it's premature to say whether he would instruct his attorney general to reopen the Trump investigations if he's elected president. "You are talking about January 2021," Booker told reporters in Reno. "We have a lot of investigations that are going on right now." Buttigieg echoed that sentiment Friday as he prepared to campaign in New Hampshire this weekend, saying that "it depends what the basis for it is." "It's certainly the case that there are various unanswered questions," he said. "I don't know that that has to happen from a president directing an attorney general to do something, though, because a lot of this just works through the legal system." A voter attending a house party for Warren in New Hampshire on Saturday thanked her for calling for impeachment. However, some Democratic voters are wary of how impeachment could embolden Trump supporters. ___ Associated Press writer Juana Summers in Orangeburg, South Carolina, and Scott Sonner in Reno, Nevada, contributed to this report.Supported by The progressive leaders Pete Buttigieg and Stacey Abrams are confronting the hypocrisy of the religious right. By Timothy Egan Contributing Opinion Writer We know that slaveholders in the American South used Scripture to justify keeping their fellow humans in bondage. They could find no words from Christ on this, for there are no words from him. Just a line in the New Testament from mere mortals presuming to speak for him. But perhaps it made those who tore apart families, who whipped insubordinates until they passed out, who sold children and cotton bales as similar commodities feel better to know that the monstrous crime of their daily enterprise could be a blessed act. These days, no less an authority than Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said recently that God “wanted Donald Trump to become president.” She offered no sourcing for this assertion, as is the case for vaporous claims that rise from the rot of the Trump presidency on a daily basis. But in blaming God for Trump, Sanders echoed a widespread Republican belief that the most outwardly amoral man ever to occupy the White House is an instrument of divine power. He’s part of the master plan. Mocking Sanders and the many Ned Flanders of the G.O.P. team is unlikely to make much of a dent. Nearly half of all Republicans believe God wanted Trump to win the election. To them, secular snark is a merit badge on the MAGA hat. But there is a better way to sway the electorate of faith, as the rising Democratic stars Pete Buttigieg and Stacey Abrams have shown us. They apply something like a “What Would Jesus Do?” test to rouse religious conscience on the political battlefield. Buttigieg, the 37-year-old mayor of South Bend, Ind., is a Navy veteran who served in Afghanistan, a Rhodes scholar, married to a junior high school teacher. He’s gay and, more surprising for a modern Democrat, he is an out Christian, as quick to quote St. Augustine as Abraham Lincoln. On Sunday, he is expected to formally announce his run for president. Like Abrams and Senator Cory Booker, Mayor Pete says his faith made him a progressive. Scripture directs him to defend the poor, the sick, the marginalized, the societal castoffs. But Buttigieg goes much further than mere Bible-citing. He’s taking it directly to Trump and to Vice President Mike Pence, who flashes his piety like a seven-carat diamond on his pinkie finger. It’s hard to look at the actions of President Trump, Buttigieg said, “and believe they are the actions of somebody who believes in God.” The mayor calls Pence the “cheerleader of the porn star presidency,” and he wonders whether the vice president “stopped believing in Scripture when he started believing in Donald Trump.” Buttigieg’s marriage to Chasten Glezman “moved me closer to God,” he said in a speech last Sunday. To the “Mike Pences of the world,” he said, “your quarrel is not with me — your quarrel, sir, is with my creator.” Abrams, who narrowly lost her race for governor of Georgia last year, also uses faith, part of a long African-American tradition, to marshal Christian principles against the repulsive acts of man. The daughter of two Methodist preachers, she said in one of her television ads, “My reading of the Bible says that Jesus Christ was a progressive.” We should wince at any claim of providential partisanship. The founders were explicit about this in writing a strictly secular Constitution. George Washington’s Treaty of Tripoli, passed unanimously by the Senate, contains language stating that “the United States is not, in any sense, founded on the Christian religion.” But when a president is held up by his own spokeswoman as an extension of divine will, and that president is embraced by the evangelical community as a fulfillment of biblical prophecy, it’s fine to use the source material to fight back. The best Christian argument against Trump comes from Christ. The essence of Christianity is his exhortation that people treat the sick, the hungry, the poor, the imprisoned as they would treat him. “Whatever you did to the least of these brothers and sisters of mine, you did to me.” No one can know what’s in Trump’s heart. But his policies are inhumane in the extreme. Cursed are the meek, for under Trump’s command, children have been put in cages, and the poor in red states are denied the health care that should be available to them under Obamacare. Pope Francis, an authority I would trust more than Sarah Sanders in this realm, said, “A person who thinks only about building walls, wherever they may be, and not building bridges, is not a Christian.” Trump is all about self. His bigotry, his boasting, his lies, his pride, his scams of the vulnerable, his worship of materialism, his insults of the dead, his turning a blind eye to refugees, his bragging of adulterous behavior, his treatment of “the least” among us — all of this is antithetical to Christian philosophy. Buttigieg is right to call him on this. He’s right to attack Pence’s hypocrisy. But the moral high ground is a fragile perch, best visited on rare occasions. He’s thrown down a needed challenge. Now let Trump and Pence try to prove him wrong. I invite you to follow me on Twitter (@nytegan). The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported by The progressive leaders Pete Buttigieg and Stacey Abrams are confronting the hypocrisy of the religious right. By Timothy Egan Contributing Opinion Writer We know that slaveholders in the American South used Scripture to justify keeping their fellow humans in bondage. They could find no words from Christ on this, for there are no words from him. Just a line in the New Testament from mere mortals presuming to speak for him. But perhaps it made those who tore apart families, who whipped insubordinates until they passed out, who sold children and cotton bales as similar commodities feel better to know that the monstrous crime of their daily enterprise could be a blessed act. These days, no less an authority than Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said recently that God “wanted Donald Trump to become president.” She offered no sourcing for this assertion, as is the case for vaporous claims that rise from the rot of the Trump presidency on a daily basis. But in blaming God for Trump, Sanders echoed a widespread Republican belief that the most outwardly amoral man ever to occupy the White House is an instrument of divine power. He’s part of the master plan. Mocking Sanders and the many Ned Flanders of the G.O.P. team is unlikely to make much of a dent. Nearly half of all Republicans believe God wanted Trump to win the election. To them, secular snark is a merit badge on the MAGA hat. But there is a better way to sway the electorate of faith, as the rising Democratic stars Pete Buttigieg and Stacey Abrams have shown us. They apply something like a “What Would Jesus Do?” test to rouse religious conscience on the political battlefield. Buttigieg, the 37-year-old mayor of South Bend, Ind., is a Navy veteran who served in Afghanistan, a Rhodes scholar, married to a junior high school teacher. He’s gay and, more surprising for a modern Democrat, he is an out Christian, as quick to quote St. Augustine as Abraham Lincoln. On Sunday, he is expected to formally announce his run for president. Like Abrams and Senator Cory Booker, Mayor Pete says his faith made him a progressive. Scripture directs him to defend the poor, the sick, the marginalized, the societal castoffs. But Buttigieg goes much further than mere Bible-citing. He’s taking it directly to Trump and to Vice President Mike Pence, who flashes his piety like a seven-carat diamond on his pinkie finger. It’s hard to look at the actions of President Trump, Buttigieg said, “and believe they are the actions of somebody who believes in God.” The mayor calls Pence the “cheerleader of the porn star presidency,” and he wonders whether the vice president “stopped believing in Scripture when he started believing in Donald Trump.” Buttigieg’s marriage to Chasten Glezman “moved me closer to God,” he said in a speech last Sunday. To the “Mike Pences of the world,” he said, “your quarrel is not with me — your quarrel, sir, is with my creator.” Abrams, who narrowly lost her race for governor of Georgia last year, also uses faith, part of a long African-American tradition, to marshal Christian principles against the repulsive acts of man. The daughter of two Methodist preachers, she said in one of her television ads, “My reading of the Bible says that Jesus Christ was a progressive.” We should wince at any claim of providential partisanship. The founders were explicit about this in writing a strictly secular Constitution. George Washington’s Treaty of Tripoli, passed unanimously by the Senate, contains language stating that “the United States is not, in any sense, founded on the Christian religion.” But when a president is held up by his own spokeswoman as an extension of divine will, and that president is embraced by the evangelical community as a fulfillment of biblical prophecy, it’s fine to use the source material to fight back. The best Christian argument against Trump comes from Christ. The essence of Christianity is his exhortation that people treat the sick, the hungry, the poor, the imprisoned as they would treat him. “Whatever you did to the least of these brothers and sisters of mine, you did to me.” No one can know what’s in Trump’s heart. But his policies are inhumane in the extreme. Cursed are the meek, for under Trump’s command, children have been put in cages, and the poor in red states are denied the health care that should be available to them under Obamacare. Pope Francis, an authority I would trust more than Sarah Sanders in this realm, said, “A person who thinks only about building walls, wherever they may be, and not building bridges, is not a Christian.” Trump is all about self. His bigotry, his boasting, his lies, his pride, his scams of the vulnerable, his worship of materialism, his insults of the dead, his turning a blind eye to refugees, his bragging of adulterous behavior, his treatment of “the least” among us — all of this is antithetical to Christian philosophy. Buttigieg is right to call him on this. He’s right to attack Pence’s hypocrisy. But the moral high ground is a fragile perch, best visited on rare occasions. He’s thrown down a needed challenge. Now let Trump and Pence try to prove him wrong. I invite you to follow me on Twitter (@nytegan). The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Supported by NATIONAL An article on Sunday about a presidential campaign rally for Senator Cory Booker misidentified the year that the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. wrote “Letter From a Birmingham Jail.” It was 1963, not 1969. • An article on Monday about Pete Buttigieg’s official announcement to run for president misstated the number of veterans among the 2020 presidential candidates. Both Mr. Buttigieg and Representative Tulsi Gabbard are veterans; Mr. Buttigieg is not the only one. • An article on Friday about the Senate’s confirmation of David Bernhardt as secretary of the interior misspelled the given name of a Democratic senator who supported Mr. Berhardt’s nomination. She is Kyrsten Sinema, not Krysten. NEW YORK An article on Friday about a bill passed by the New York City Council that will bar marijuana drug tests for job applicants misspelled the last name of the City Council’s minority leader. He is Steven Matteo, not Mateo. It also misidentified the borough that Mr. Matteo represents. It is Staten Island, not Queens. SPORTS An article on Friday about the baseball player C.C. Sabathia’s final season misstated the year in which Aaron Boone had open-heart surgery. It was in 2009, not 2003. • An article on Sunday about the New York Islanders and the Pittsburgh Penguins’ captain Sidney Crosby misstated Crosby’s playoff history at PPG Paints Arena in Pittsburgh. He has played postseason games there every year except the 2010-11 season, not every year since his rookie season. ARTS An article on Monday about female directors in Hollywood misidentified the actress who will star in a “Shaft” sequel. She is Regina Hall, not Regina King. OPINION An Op-Ed essay on Monday about women’s status in Pakistan mischaracterized a member of the federal cabinet there. She is one of three female cabinet ministers; she is not the only one. OBITUARIES An obituary on Monday about the actress Bibi Andersson referred incorrectly to her role in the movie “The Passion of Anna.” She played a friend of the title character, a widow played by Liv Ullmann; she did not play the widow. Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions. To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com or call 1-844-NYT-NEWS (1-844-698-6397). Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com or faxed to (212) 556-3622. For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.

Supported by NATIONAL An article on Sunday about a presidential campaign rally for Senator Cory Booker misidentified the year that the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. wrote “Letter From a Birmingham Jail.” It was 1963, not 1969. • An article on Monday about Pete Buttigieg’s official announcement to run for president misstated the number of veterans among the 2020 presidential candidates. Both Mr. Buttigieg and Representative Tulsi Gabbard are veterans; Mr. Buttigieg is not the only one. • An article on Friday about the Senate’s confirmation of David Bernhardt as secretary of the interior misspelled the given name of a Democratic senator who supported Mr. Berhardt’s nomination. She is Kyrsten Sinema, not Krysten. NEW YORK An article on Friday about a bill passed by the New York City Council that will bar marijuana drug tests for job applicants misspelled the last name of the City Council’s minority leader. He is Steven Matteo, not Mateo. It also misidentified the borough that Mr. Matteo represents. It is Staten Island, not Queens. SPORTS An article on Friday about the baseball player C.C. Sabathia’s final season misstated the year in which Aaron Boone had open-heart surgery. It was in 2009, not 2003. • An article on Sunday about the New York Islanders and the Pittsburgh Penguins’ captain Sidney Crosby misstated Crosby’s playoff history at PPG Paints Arena in Pittsburgh. He has played postseason games there every year except the 2010-11 season, not every year since his rookie season. ARTS An article on Monday about female directors in Hollywood misidentified the actress who will star in a “Shaft” sequel. She is Regina Hall, not Regina King. OPINION An Op-Ed essay on Monday about women’s status in Pakistan mischaracterized a member of the federal cabinet there. She is one of three female cabinet ministers; she is not the only one. OBITUARIES An obituary on Monday about the actress Bibi Andersson referred incorrectly to her role in the movie “The Passion of Anna.” She played a friend of the title character, a widow played by Liv Ullmann; she did not play the widow. Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions. To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com or call 1-844-NYT-NEWS (1-844-698-6397). Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com or faxed to (212) 556-3622. For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.Supported by Alas, Pete Buttigieg isn’t Obama. No one is.  By Charles M. Blow Opinion Columnist Pete Buttigieg gives me Barack Obama vibes. This young mayor of South Bend, Indiana, officially kicked off his presidential bid at a rally this week in that city. Buttigieg said to the adoring crowd: “I recognize the audacity of doing this as a Midwestern millennial mayor. More than a little bold — at age 37 — to seek the highest office in the land.” As Alex Burns of The New York Times noted: “This line is an almost explicit invocation of Mr. Obama’s 2007 announcement speech, when he said, ‘I recognize there is a certain presumptuousness, a certain audacity’ to a junior senator like him seeking the presidency. Mr. Buttigieg uses Obama-esque flourishes throughout, including more than half a dozen references each to ‘hope’ and ‘change.’” But alas, Buttigieg isn’t Obama. No one is. The swelling crowd of Democratic hopefuls consists of candidates who are their own people with their own strengths and weakness. And, one of those weaknesses, for many, is how to appeal to the black voters. As former Obama campaign manager and White House adviser David Axelrod tweeted about Buttigieg’s announcement speech: “Watching the @PeteButtigieg announcement from South Bend. Crowd seems very large, very impressive but also very white — an obstacle he will have to overcome.” In a follow-up tweet, Axelrod explained:  “And by obstacle I mean deficiency. He will need to build out his coalition in a very diverse party.” A quarter of the population of South Bend is African-American. Where were they? And, it is not that candidates like Buttigieg haven’t attempted outreach to African-Americans. This month he went to Al Sharpton’s National Action Network conference and told the crowd, “I believe an agenda for black Americans needs to include five things that all of us care about: homeownership, entrepreneurship, education, health and justice.” (Cory Booker, John Delaney, Kirsten Gillibrand, Kamala Harris, John Hickenlooper, Amy Klobuchar, Beto O’Rourke, Bernie Sanders, Elizabeth Warren and Andrew Yang also spoke at the conference.) The problem of course is connection, and connecting with a voting base that people too often think of as monolithic when in fact it is multifaceted and fractured. The day after Buttigieg’s announcement speech, he addressed on CNN his campaign’s issue with attracting and appealing to a black voter, pledging to “do better” and saying in part: “I’ve been on the trail, we found, to some extent, it depends on geography. We had a very diverse crowd at my first stop in Nevada, but less so in South Carolina.” Bingo! Among the many different ways the African-American population is diverse in this country is geographic. There is the South, where most black people in this country still live, and there is everywhere else. In a way, I think that you could make a case that there are two black Americas among the people descended of the enslaved in this country: The sons and daughters of the Great Migration and the sons and daughters of the people who stayed in the South. I was born and raised in the South, but have lived the last 27 years in the Midwest and Northeast, and I can tell you that those are not the same black Americas. One difference is religiosity. While black people in general are more religious than the overall population, black people in the South are also appreciably more religious than black people in other parts of the country, according to Gallup data. The data reveals that the percentage of black people who were deemed “not religious” (based on how important attending church was to them) was 13 percent in the South. It was twice that number in the West, and around 20 percent in the Midwest and East. The Pew Research Center found a similar difference in 2009: While only 9 percent of black people in the South were religiously unaffiliated, that number nearly doubled in the Midwest to 17 percent and was 14 percent in the Northeast and 15 percent in the West. This religiosity translates into a form of social conservatism. Taking that into consideration, a more progressive view may have more resonance among black people outside the South than in it. Messaging, policies and appeals won’t necessarily work the same in these different areas. This is important to understand, since black voters are critically important for securing the nomination, particularly in the South, and can make the difference in the general election, particularly in the Midwest. In 2016, African-Americans were the majority of Democratic primary voters in Mississippi, South Carolina, Alabama and Georgia, according to exit polls. (There were no exit polls for Louisiana.) All of those states were early on the primary calendar, voting by the second week in March. This gave black Southerners a stronger hand in shaping the direction of the race for the nomination. In the general election, these voices were drowned out by their Republican neighbors, almost all of whom are white. No Democrat has won one of these states in 23 years, when Bill Clinton won Louisiana in 1996. Another division is age. Young black voters do not necessarily align their interests with their parents. These factors, in part, explain the performance of the black electorate in the 2016 contest between Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders. Sanders struggled to attract older black voters, particularly in the South, and Clinton struggled to excite young black ones. A 2016 study from The Associated Press and the University of Chicago found that 60 percent of young African-Americans chose Sanders over Clinton as “the candidate who best understands the problems of people like them,” and “among African-American young adults who indicated they voted in the primaries, a majority, 54 percent, said they voted for Bernie Sanders.” And yet Sanders still lost all of the states in which black voters were the majority during the primaries. Lastly, there is a division that I believe is harder to grasp, more ephemeral but also more profound: the difference between the black activist and the black traditionalist. This overlaps with religion and age, to be sure, but I believe that it also speaks to the differences in the black political cultures of the North and South. We have seen this split for generations in the different approaches taken by Booker T. Washington and W.E.B. DuBois, Martin Luther King and Malcolm X, the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee and the Black Panthers. This is not a judgment about which approaches were right or more effective, but rather an acknowledgment that they were different, and informed by place. An issue like reparations can have a particular potency in some areas and not nearly as much in others. Mayor Pete and the rest of the field would do well to recognize these differences when setting out to woo black voters. The loudest voices in the biggest cities are not necessarily representative of the whole African-American community. Topics trending on Twitter may not be top of mind in Mississippi. If you want to win more of the black vote, recognize that there are a variety of different black voters and fight for their votes individually rather than believe that it’s a one-size-fits-all approach. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and Instagram.  Charles Blow joined The Times in 1994 and became an Opinion columnist in 2008. He is also a television commentator and writes often about politics, social justice and vulnerable communities.  @CharlesMBlow • Facebook 

Supported by Alas, Pete Buttigieg isn’t Obama. No one is.  By Charles M. Blow Opinion Columnist Pete Buttigieg gives me Barack Obama vibes. This young mayor of South Bend, Indiana, officially kicked off his presidential bid at a rally this week in that city. Buttigieg said to the adoring crowd: “I recognize the audacity of doing this as a Midwestern millennial mayor. More than a little bold — at age 37 — to seek the highest office in the land.” As Alex Burns of The New York Times noted: “This line is an almost explicit invocation of Mr. Obama’s 2007 announcement speech, when he said, ‘I recognize there is a certain presumptuousness, a certain audacity’ to a junior senator like him seeking the presidency. Mr. Buttigieg uses Obama-esque flourishes throughout, including more than half a dozen references each to ‘hope’ and ‘change.’” But alas, Buttigieg isn’t Obama. No one is. The swelling crowd of Democratic hopefuls consists of candidates who are their own people with their own strengths and weakness. And, one of those weaknesses, for many, is how to appeal to the black voters. As former Obama campaign manager and White House adviser David Axelrod tweeted about Buttigieg’s announcement speech: “Watching the @PeteButtigieg announcement from South Bend. Crowd seems very large, very impressive but also very white — an obstacle he will have to overcome.” In a follow-up tweet, Axelrod explained:  “And by obstacle I mean deficiency. He will need to build out his coalition in a very diverse party.” A quarter of the population of South Bend is African-American. Where were they? And, it is not that candidates like Buttigieg haven’t attempted outreach to African-Americans. This month he went to Al Sharpton’s National Action Network conference and told the crowd, “I believe an agenda for black Americans needs to include five things that all of us care about: homeownership, entrepreneurship, education, health and justice.” (Cory Booker, John Delaney, Kirsten Gillibrand, Kamala Harris, John Hickenlooper, Amy Klobuchar, Beto O’Rourke, Bernie Sanders, Elizabeth Warren and Andrew Yang also spoke at the conference.) The problem of course is connection, and connecting with a voting base that people too often think of as monolithic when in fact it is multifaceted and fractured. The day after Buttigieg’s announcement speech, he addressed on CNN his campaign’s issue with attracting and appealing to a black voter, pledging to “do better” and saying in part: “I’ve been on the trail, we found, to some extent, it depends on geography. We had a very diverse crowd at my first stop in Nevada, but less so in South Carolina.” Bingo! Among the many different ways the African-American population is diverse in this country is geographic. There is the South, where most black people in this country still live, and there is everywhere else. In a way, I think that you could make a case that there are two black Americas among the people descended of the enslaved in this country: The sons and daughters of the Great Migration and the sons and daughters of the people who stayed in the South. I was born and raised in the South, but have lived the last 27 years in the Midwest and Northeast, and I can tell you that those are not the same black Americas. One difference is religiosity. While black people in general are more religious than the overall population, black people in the South are also appreciably more religious than black people in other parts of the country, according to Gallup data. The data reveals that the percentage of black people who were deemed “not religious” (based on how important attending church was to them) was 13 percent in the South. It was twice that number in the West, and around 20 percent in the Midwest and East. The Pew Research Center found a similar difference in 2009: While only 9 percent of black people in the South were religiously unaffiliated, that number nearly doubled in the Midwest to 17 percent and was 14 percent in the Northeast and 15 percent in the West. This religiosity translates into a form of social conservatism. Taking that into consideration, a more progressive view may have more resonance among black people outside the South than in it. Messaging, policies and appeals won’t necessarily work the same in these different areas. This is important to understand, since black voters are critically important for securing the nomination, particularly in the South, and can make the difference in the general election, particularly in the Midwest. In 2016, African-Americans were the majority of Democratic primary voters in Mississippi, South Carolina, Alabama and Georgia, according to exit polls. (There were no exit polls for Louisiana.) All of those states were early on the primary calendar, voting by the second week in March. This gave black Southerners a stronger hand in shaping the direction of the race for the nomination. In the general election, these voices were drowned out by their Republican neighbors, almost all of whom are white. No Democrat has won one of these states in 23 years, when Bill Clinton won Louisiana in 1996. Another division is age. Young black voters do not necessarily align their interests with their parents. These factors, in part, explain the performance of the black electorate in the 2016 contest between Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders. Sanders struggled to attract older black voters, particularly in the South, and Clinton struggled to excite young black ones. A 2016 study from The Associated Press and the University of Chicago found that 60 percent of young African-Americans chose Sanders over Clinton as “the candidate who best understands the problems of people like them,” and “among African-American young adults who indicated they voted in the primaries, a majority, 54 percent, said they voted for Bernie Sanders.” And yet Sanders still lost all of the states in which black voters were the majority during the primaries. Lastly, there is a division that I believe is harder to grasp, more ephemeral but also more profound: the difference between the black activist and the black traditionalist. This overlaps with religion and age, to be sure, but I believe that it also speaks to the differences in the black political cultures of the North and South. We have seen this split for generations in the different approaches taken by Booker T. Washington and W.E.B. DuBois, Martin Luther King and Malcolm X, the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee and the Black Panthers. This is not a judgment about which approaches were right or more effective, but rather an acknowledgment that they were different, and informed by place. An issue like reparations can have a particular potency in some areas and not nearly as much in others. Mayor Pete and the rest of the field would do well to recognize these differences when setting out to woo black voters. The loudest voices in the biggest cities are not necessarily representative of the whole African-American community. Topics trending on Twitter may not be top of mind in Mississippi. If you want to win more of the black vote, recognize that there are a variety of different black voters and fight for their votes individually rather than believe that it’s a one-size-fits-all approach. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and Instagram.  Charles Blow joined The Times in 1994 and became an Opinion columnist in 2008. He is also a television commentator and writes often about politics, social justice and vulnerable communities.  @CharlesMBlow • Facebook Supported by Pete Buttigieg, a 37-year-old who entered the presidential race, deserves a hearing. By David Leonhardt Opinion Columnist This article is part of David Leonhardt’s newsletter. You can sign up here to receive it each weekday. “I think a lot about intergenerational justice,” Pete Buttigieg, the latest Democrat to enter the presidential race, said recently. Buttigieg is 37 years old. His generation, as he points out, has endured school shootings, post-9/11 wars, climate change, rising debts and the prospect that it will fail to earn more than its parents.  Buttigieg — pronounced “BOOT-edge-edge” — doesn’t have the typical résumé of a presidential candidate. He is a successful two-term mayor of South Bend, Ind., who has never held higher office. He will need to persuade voters that he has the experience and judgment to clean up Donald Trump’s mess. But I find his candidacy intriguing.  He has fully embraced the idea that the United States needs to focus on its future. As Ben White of Politico tweeted, Buttigieg “running an explicitly generational campaign as a millennial screwed by boomers who wrecked the earth and destroyed the nation’s finances is super interesting.” An Atlantic piece yesterday by Edward-Isaac Dovere ran under the headline: “Pete Buttigieg Thinks All the 2020 Democrats Are Too Old.” Buttigieg himself says in an announcement video: “We can’t look for greatness in the past. Right now, our country needs a fresh start.” No matter how Buttigieg himself fares as a candidate, I hope he forces the other candidates to address the generational inequities in American life.  For more about the candidate, you can listen to him tell his life story — including a transition from Rhodes scholar to naval intelligence officer in Afghanistan — on David Axelrod’s podcast. Also: Bob Moser has profiled Buttigieg in The Washington Post Magazine, asking if he could become the first millennial president. In 2016, my colleague Frank Bruni asked if Buttigieg could become the first gay president. In Indianapolis Monthly, Adam Wren tells the story of Buttigieg impressing top Democrats. And The Washington Post’s Cathleen Decker and Chelsea Janes write that his Midwestern credentials could help the Democrats rebuild the “blue wall” that crumbled in 2016. Not good, Mr. Vice President Last week, I urged Joe Biden to run for president, arguing that Democrats would benefit from a diverse field and that Biden’s experience made him unique among the potential candidates. If he ran a strong campaign and seemed right for the moment, he could be the best person to take on President Trump. If Biden didn’t run a strong campaign, he wouldn’t win the nomination anyway. Yesterday brought a reminder that Biden doesn’t have a good history of running presidential campaigns. Alexander Burns of The Times broke the news that during last year’s midterm campaign, Biden accepted $200,000 to a give a speech in Michigan during which he praised Fred Upton, a Republican House candidate locked in a rough re-election campaign. The $200,000 came from a local group with ties to Upton’s family. Biden’s comments ended up in advertisements that helped defeat the Democratic candidate.  The episode seems accidental, not corrupt. Biden apparently made the comments off the cuff, motivated by Upton’s work on a bill to support cancer research. And it certainly shouldn’t be a political crime for people to praise members of the other party.  But given the money Biden received, he should have been more thoughtful. Instead, he reminded a lot of Democratic voters about a problem with Hillary Clinton’s 2016 campaign: her paid speeches. Biden also offered a reminder that his previous two presidential campaigns — in 1988 and 2008 — struggled from the very start. If he runs this time, he will need to become less careless. Israel and anti-Semitism The current Israeli government commits systematic human rights abuses. A fair amount of the criticism of that same Israeli government is tinged with anti-Semitism. I believe both of those statements are true. On this week’s episode of “The Argument” podcast, I talked about Israel with my colleague Bret Stephens and Michelle Goldberg — who very much disagree with each other. Bret also spoke with Ross Douthat about the Republican Party and the white working class.  If you are not a subscriber to this newsletter, you can subscribe here. You can also join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt • Facebook 

Supported by Pete Buttigieg, a 37-year-old who entered the presidential race, deserves a hearing. By David Leonhardt Opinion Columnist This article is part of David Leonhardt’s newsletter. You can sign up here to receive it each weekday. “I think a lot about intergenerational justice,” Pete Buttigieg, the latest Democrat to enter the presidential race, said recently. Buttigieg is 37 years old. His generation, as he points out, has endured school shootings, post-9/11 wars, climate change, rising debts and the prospect that it will fail to earn more than its parents.  Buttigieg — pronounced “BOOT-edge-edge” — doesn’t have the typical résumé of a presidential candidate. He is a successful two-term mayor of South Bend, Ind., who has never held higher office. He will need to persuade voters that he has the experience and judgment to clean up Donald Trump’s mess. But I find his candidacy intriguing.  He has fully embraced the idea that the United States needs to focus on its future. As Ben White of Politico tweeted, Buttigieg “running an explicitly generational campaign as a millennial screwed by boomers who wrecked the earth and destroyed the nation’s finances is super interesting.” An Atlantic piece yesterday by Edward-Isaac Dovere ran under the headline: “Pete Buttigieg Thinks All the 2020 Democrats Are Too Old.” Buttigieg himself says in an announcement video: “We can’t look for greatness in the past. Right now, our country needs a fresh start.” No matter how Buttigieg himself fares as a candidate, I hope he forces the other candidates to address the generational inequities in American life.  For more about the candidate, you can listen to him tell his life story — including a transition from Rhodes scholar to naval intelligence officer in Afghanistan — on David Axelrod’s podcast. Also: Bob Moser has profiled Buttigieg in The Washington Post Magazine, asking if he could become the first millennial president. In 2016, my colleague Frank Bruni asked if Buttigieg could become the first gay president. In Indianapolis Monthly, Adam Wren tells the story of Buttigieg impressing top Democrats. And The Washington Post’s Cathleen Decker and Chelsea Janes write that his Midwestern credentials could help the Democrats rebuild the “blue wall” that crumbled in 2016. Not good, Mr. Vice President Last week, I urged Joe Biden to run for president, arguing that Democrats would benefit from a diverse field and that Biden’s experience made him unique among the potential candidates. If he ran a strong campaign and seemed right for the moment, he could be the best person to take on President Trump. If Biden didn’t run a strong campaign, he wouldn’t win the nomination anyway. Yesterday brought a reminder that Biden doesn’t have a good history of running presidential campaigns. Alexander Burns of The Times broke the news that during last year’s midterm campaign, Biden accepted $200,000 to a give a speech in Michigan during which he praised Fred Upton, a Republican House candidate locked in a rough re-election campaign. The $200,000 came from a local group with ties to Upton’s family. Biden’s comments ended up in advertisements that helped defeat the Democratic candidate.  The episode seems accidental, not corrupt. Biden apparently made the comments off the cuff, motivated by Upton’s work on a bill to support cancer research. And it certainly shouldn’t be a political crime for people to praise members of the other party.  But given the money Biden received, he should have been more thoughtful. Instead, he reminded a lot of Democratic voters about a problem with Hillary Clinton’s 2016 campaign: her paid speeches. Biden also offered a reminder that his previous two presidential campaigns — in 1988 and 2008 — struggled from the very start. If he runs this time, he will need to become less careless. Israel and anti-Semitism The current Israeli government commits systematic human rights abuses. A fair amount of the criticism of that same Israeli government is tinged with anti-Semitism. I believe both of those statements are true. On this week’s episode of “The Argument” podcast, I talked about Israel with my colleague Bret Stephens and Michelle Goldberg — who very much disagree with each other. Bret also spoke with Ross Douthat about the Republican Party and the white working class.  If you are not a subscriber to this newsletter, you can subscribe here. You can also join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt • Facebook Supported by By Matt Stevens Despite a turbulent week in which he was accused by several women of inappropriate physical contact, former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. remains popular among Iowa Democrats and leads a new poll that also indicates Mayor Pete Buttigieg of South Bend, Ind., is on the rise. The poll, which was conducted by Monmouth University, had Mr. Biden garnering the support of 27 percent of Democratic voters who are likely to attend the Iowa caucuses in February. It also showed that he is the best-liked person among the field of presidential contenders by a comfortable margin, with a favorability rating of 78 percent, compared with 14 percent who viewed him unfavorably. (Though Mr. Biden’s advisers have signaled that he intends to run for president, he has yet to announce his candidacy.) He did especially well among voters age 65 and older, drawing 44 percent of their support. The poll numbers were less encouraging for Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, the front-runner among the announced candidates. Sixteen percent of respondents said they would support or lean toward him as their first choice. Twenty-five percent of voters had called him their first choice in a poll last month conducted by the Des Moines Register and CNN. The Monmouth poll also found that about half of the Iowa Democrats surveyed ranked health care as the top policy priority, followed by environmental concerns. The poll of 351 Iowa Democrats had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 5.2 percentage points. The poll was conducted April 4-9, several days after the first complaints from women about Mr. Biden. The former vice president’s decades-long habit of hugging, touching and kissing people has become a subject of scrutiny in recent weeks after several women came forward saying his physicality made them uncomfortable. Still, support for Mr. Biden remained about the same as a month ago, when The Des Moines Register poll showed Mr. Biden as the top choice for 27 percent of respondents. [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] Over that period, support for Mr. Buttigieg appears to have risen. The Monmouth poll showed 9 percent of likely Iowa caucusgoers support him; in the Register poll last month, only one percent of voters labeled him as their first choice for president. After Mr. Biden, Mr. Sanders and Mr. Buttigieg came Senator Kamala Harris of California and Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, who were each the top choice for 7 percent of respondents. Former Representative Beto O’Rourke drew the support of 6 percent. Other candidates, such as Senators Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota and Cory Booker of New Jersey, polled lower.   

Supported by By Matt Stevens Despite a turbulent week in which he was accused by several women of inappropriate physical contact, former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. remains popular among Iowa Democrats and leads a new poll that also indicates Mayor Pete Buttigieg of South Bend, Ind., is on the rise. The poll, which was conducted by Monmouth University, had Mr. Biden garnering the support of 27 percent of Democratic voters who are likely to attend the Iowa caucuses in February. It also showed that he is the best-liked person among the field of presidential contenders by a comfortable margin, with a favorability rating of 78 percent, compared with 14 percent who viewed him unfavorably. (Though Mr. Biden’s advisers have signaled that he intends to run for president, he has yet to announce his candidacy.) He did especially well among voters age 65 and older, drawing 44 percent of their support. The poll numbers were less encouraging for Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, the front-runner among the announced candidates. Sixteen percent of respondents said they would support or lean toward him as their first choice. Twenty-five percent of voters had called him their first choice in a poll last month conducted by the Des Moines Register and CNN. The Monmouth poll also found that about half of the Iowa Democrats surveyed ranked health care as the top policy priority, followed by environmental concerns. The poll of 351 Iowa Democrats had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 5.2 percentage points. The poll was conducted April 4-9, several days after the first complaints from women about Mr. Biden. The former vice president’s decades-long habit of hugging, touching and kissing people has become a subject of scrutiny in recent weeks after several women came forward saying his physicality made them uncomfortable. Still, support for Mr. Biden remained about the same as a month ago, when The Des Moines Register poll showed Mr. Biden as the top choice for 27 percent of respondents. [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] Over that period, support for Mr. Buttigieg appears to have risen. The Monmouth poll showed 9 percent of likely Iowa caucusgoers support him; in the Register poll last month, only one percent of voters labeled him as their first choice for president. After Mr. Biden, Mr. Sanders and Mr. Buttigieg came Senator Kamala Harris of California and Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, who were each the top choice for 7 percent of respondents. Former Representative Beto O’Rourke drew the support of 6 percent. Other candidates, such as Senators Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota and Cory Booker of New Jersey, polled lower.   Supported by By The Associated Press The Latest on the 2020 presidential race (all times EDT): 3:45 p.m. Elizabeth Warren says the Democrats running for president will have to do more than campaign on an anti-Donald Trump message if they want to take back the White House in 2020. The Massachusetts senator says they'll have to explain their own vision for the future of the country. Warren is visiting the early caucus state of Nevada. She tells about 500 people at a rally in a high school gymnasium in Reno that she has an ambitious agenda that would force billionaires to pay their fair share of taxes, strengthen labor unions and protect everyone's right to vote. She says it's important to build a broad grassroots campaign in Nevada and other places now to have a chance to win next year. Warren says that "if our message is 'not Trump,' it's not going to work." ___ 3:45 p.m. Beto O'Rourke may be competing against Pete Buttigieg (BOO'-tuh-juhj) for the Democratic presidential nomination, but the former Texas congressman is still a fan of the South Bend, Indiana mayor. O'Rourke says "I like him a lot" when he was asked about the fact that the two politicians have a similar message and profile, and may be competing for similar voters. O'Rourke, who's making a series of stops in Iowa, says he likes the way Buttigieg is approaching voters and "the seriousness with which he answers questions, the thought that he's put into it. I think he's terrific." O'Rourke made the comments while leaving a house party in the Des Moines area. ___ 8 a.m. It's Bernie versus Beto in Iowa. The 2020 Democratic presidential candidates are holding dueling events Saturday just days after Bernie Sanders won the campaign cash derby for the first quarter of the year. The Vermont senator raised more than $18 million in 41 days, while Beto O'Rourke, a former Texas congressman, reported $9.4 million in 18 days. Iowa hosts the nation's first nominating caucuses. Other declared or prospective candidates are in early-voting New Hampshire and South Carolina. Mayor Pete Buttigieg (BOO'-tuh-juhj) of South Bend, Indiana, along with Sens. Kirsten Gillibrand (KEER'-sten JIHL'-uh-brand) of New York and Michael Bennet of Colorado are visiting New Hampshire. John Hickenlooper, a former Colorado governor, is meeting with survivors of the 2015 church massacre in Charleston, South Carolina.

Supported by By The Associated Press The Latest on the 2020 presidential race (all times EDT): 3:45 p.m. Elizabeth Warren says the Democrats running for president will have to do more than campaign on an anti-Donald Trump message if they want to take back the White House in 2020. The Massachusetts senator says they'll have to explain their own vision for the future of the country. Warren is visiting the early caucus state of Nevada. She tells about 500 people at a rally in a high school gymnasium in Reno that she has an ambitious agenda that would force billionaires to pay their fair share of taxes, strengthen labor unions and protect everyone's right to vote. She says it's important to build a broad grassroots campaign in Nevada and other places now to have a chance to win next year. Warren says that "if our message is 'not Trump,' it's not going to work." ___ 3:45 p.m. Beto O'Rourke may be competing against Pete Buttigieg (BOO'-tuh-juhj) for the Democratic presidential nomination, but the former Texas congressman is still a fan of the South Bend, Indiana mayor. O'Rourke says "I like him a lot" when he was asked about the fact that the two politicians have a similar message and profile, and may be competing for similar voters. O'Rourke, who's making a series of stops in Iowa, says he likes the way Buttigieg is approaching voters and "the seriousness with which he answers questions, the thought that he's put into it. I think he's terrific." O'Rourke made the comments while leaving a house party in the Des Moines area. ___ 8 a.m. It's Bernie versus Beto in Iowa. The 2020 Democratic presidential candidates are holding dueling events Saturday just days after Bernie Sanders won the campaign cash derby for the first quarter of the year. The Vermont senator raised more than $18 million in 41 days, while Beto O'Rourke, a former Texas congressman, reported $9.4 million in 18 days. Iowa hosts the nation's first nominating caucuses. Other declared or prospective candidates are in early-voting New Hampshire and South Carolina. Mayor Pete Buttigieg (BOO'-tuh-juhj) of South Bend, Indiana, along with Sens. Kirsten Gillibrand (KEER'-sten JIHL'-uh-brand) of New York and Michael Bennet of Colorado are visiting New Hampshire. John Hickenlooper, a former Colorado governor, is meeting with survivors of the 2015 church massacre in Charleston, South Carolina.Supported by  Kirsten Gillibrand, Pete Buttigieg and the fresh-face fallacy. By Jill Filipovic Contributing Opinion Writer As the Democratic field for 2020 gets more crowded, several fresh young faces have begun to emerge. There’s Beto O’Rourke, 46, a Texas congressman who lost his Senate race against Ted Cruz last year. There’s Mayor Pete (last name Buttigieg), just 37 and a gay veteran, who runs the city of South Bend, Ind. (pop. 102,245). There’s the longer shot Andrew Yang, 44, corporate lawyer turned do-gooder entrepreneur, who is campaigning on the promise of a universal basic income. And now, there is Tim Ryan, 45, a congressman from Ohio best known for challenging Nancy Pelosi for the speakership. The Democrats vying for 2020 run a remarkable age gamut. Mr. Buttigieg is the youngest and Bernie Sanders, at 77, is the oldest. The prominent female candidates cluster more in the middle: Kirsten Gillibrand is the youngest at 52, and Elizabeth Warren is the oldest at 69, with Kamala Harris (54) and Amy Klobuchar (58) in the middle. But whether a youngish candidate is bright, brilliant and promising or inexperienced, off-putting and ruthlessly ambitious depends on whether the young thing in question is male or female. “Promise” itself is gendered. Research consistently shows that in American workplaces, women tend to be promoted once their managers see them perform well; men are promoted if managers believe in their potential to do well. We’re running the same experiment in politics: Voters, donors and journalists are all excited by the great leadership potential of young men who leapfrog up the political ladder. They expect women to prove themselves before they move forward. And so women don’t move forward as quickly. Women are more likely than men to enter politics later in life, having spent years shoring up the experience, accomplishments and recognition necessary to be considered credible contenders for higher office. Women start low and climb up, which means they may not climb as high. Women also tend to run for more collaborative legislative positions (school board, state legislature, Congress) rather than executive ones (mayor, governor, president). Men do the opposite, seeking executive roles, starting early and skipping ahead. Essentially all of the women running for president built their political lives in legislative bodies, and all but one also worked in law. Even the prominent young Democratic women making headlines outside of the presidential campaigns — Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Ilhan Omar, Ayanna Pressley — are doing so in this more traditionally female way of a step-by-step rise through legislative bodies. The female presidential contenders have not generally been elected to major executive roles. Nearly two-thirds of the men have. In a political environment where “fresh faces” are rewarded, this gives men an advantage. (It also seems to be largely benefiting white men this time around — just ask Julián Castro, 44, whose longer, ladder-climbing résumé has resulted in anemic press coverage). We want something new, but for women, unfamiliarity and youth end up being tied to incompetence.  Take Mr. Buttigieg, an indisputably intelligent and thoughtful man, whose youth has been wrought to his advantage. “When you run young, your face says you represent change,” Mr. Buttigieg told The Washington Post. Reporters deem him “authoritative and logical and very young,” noting that he’s “at the forefront of a new crop of political leaders.” He started his political career with a bid for Indiana state treasurer (he lost), then for mayor of South Bend (he won, then won re-election) and then for Democratic National Committee chairman (he dropped out). Now he’s seeking what would be his second executive role: president of the United States. Contrast that with Kirsten Gillibrand, who may now be solidly in middle age, but was a bright young thing once, too. Like Mr. Buttigieg, she went from college to graduate school (Oxford for him, U.C.L.A. Law for her) and then into the kind of corporate job increasingly considered a political liability on the left (management consulting for him, a law firm for her). From there, Ms. Gillibrand did the more typically female thing, climbing the ladder rung by rung: She worked on Hillary Clinton’s Senate campaign, then ran for Congress in a traditionally red district in New York before being appointed to complete Mrs. Clinton’s Senate term; she won re-election herself, twice. Only now, after more than a decade in legislative roles, is she running for president. It’s not just women’s and men’s paths that look different; it’s also how reporters tell their stories. Ms. Gillibrand’s red-district folksiness got her branded by some as “a country bumpkin who is in over her head.” Mr. Buttigieg’s is cast as a bonus — he doesn’t wear a jacket (“I just feel more comfortable with my sleeves rolled up,” he said) and can win in a red state. Ms. Gillibrand entered the Senate as its youngest member, a designation that was an immediate liability. Although she was at times called a “rising star,” she was caricatured as a clawing Tracy Flick, ambitious but unwilling to pay her dues. Her “aggressiveness seems almost gauche, even for a politician,” a journalist wrote. She was cast as “a young woman in a hurry.” Few seem worried that Mr. Buttigieg is in a hurry. Instead, people wonder whether America is ready for a millennial president, a question not asked in relation to the admittedly unlikely Tulsi Gabbard, also 37. Consider too that the years in which one is considered a fresh face or a rising star coincide with the years in which most Americans have children. Mr. O’Rourke, the father of three young children, has spoken (in a tone-deaf way, for which he later apologized) about his wife doing the work at home so that he could be away running for office multiple times. Mr. O’Rourke, who is 46, is cast as young even by his detractors (“a young man who’s got very little going for himself,” President Trump grumbled). Does the youthful label come from having young kids? His are 8, 10 and 12. But Ms. Gillibrand also became a parent in her mid-30s, and her sons are 10 and 15. Trevor Noah was certainly right when he said that at 52, Ms. Gillibrand is not exactly a “young mom.” But since when is a 46-year-old a “young man”? Both of them would be younger than the average American president, who is a touch over 55 — a statistic that includes a great many men born at a time when many people weren’t expected to live much past 40. While Ms. Gillibrand was called “Senator Working Mom,” Mr. O’Rourke’s status as a parent has been just one part of his story, not the core of it. After losing his Senate race, he took an extended solo road trip to clear his head and blog (or write “in a literary online diary”). A jaunt that would be portrayed as child abandonment had a woman done it “could help him politically, advancing his offbeat brand,” reporters mused. Few fretted about who was watching his children. Women typically find their family responsibilities to be less flexible. Elizabeth Warren was a young mother and a young law professor at the same time; according to a law school friend, she was also doing all of her family’s shopping, cooking and child care, and nearly dropped out of the work force as a result. One doesn’t imagine a Kerouac-style road trip was on the table for Ms. Warren as a young mom — and certainly not dreams of the presidency. That all came much later, as it does for most women. And later, of course, means older. Unfortunately for women, age poses an unsolvable problem: They are seen as too young and inexperienced right up until they are branded too old and tedious. Ms. Warren, for example, finds herself put in the same “old” category as Mr. Sanders and Joe Biden, even though both men are nearly a decade older than she is.  Men who are more or less the same age as Ms. Warren — Sherrod Brown (66), John Hickenlooper (67), Jay Inslee (68) — are not lumped in with the white-hairs. If women in their 40s are “in a hurry,” and women in their 50s are old news, and women in their 60s are just old, when, exactly, is a woman supposed to go to the White House? Jill Filipovic is the author of “The H Spot: The Feminist Pursuit of Happiness” and a contributing opinion writer. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported by  Kirsten Gillibrand, Pete Buttigieg and the fresh-face fallacy. By Jill Filipovic Contributing Opinion Writer As the Democratic field for 2020 gets more crowded, several fresh young faces have begun to emerge. There’s Beto O’Rourke, 46, a Texas congressman who lost his Senate race against Ted Cruz last year. There’s Mayor Pete (last name Buttigieg), just 37 and a gay veteran, who runs the city of South Bend, Ind. (pop. 102,245). There’s the longer shot Andrew Yang, 44, corporate lawyer turned do-gooder entrepreneur, who is campaigning on the promise of a universal basic income. And now, there is Tim Ryan, 45, a congressman from Ohio best known for challenging Nancy Pelosi for the speakership. The Democrats vying for 2020 run a remarkable age gamut. Mr. Buttigieg is the youngest and Bernie Sanders, at 77, is the oldest. The prominent female candidates cluster more in the middle: Kirsten Gillibrand is the youngest at 52, and Elizabeth Warren is the oldest at 69, with Kamala Harris (54) and Amy Klobuchar (58) in the middle. But whether a youngish candidate is bright, brilliant and promising or inexperienced, off-putting and ruthlessly ambitious depends on whether the young thing in question is male or female. “Promise” itself is gendered. Research consistently shows that in American workplaces, women tend to be promoted once their managers see them perform well; men are promoted if managers believe in their potential to do well. We’re running the same experiment in politics: Voters, donors and journalists are all excited by the great leadership potential of young men who leapfrog up the political ladder. They expect women to prove themselves before they move forward. And so women don’t move forward as quickly. Women are more likely than men to enter politics later in life, having spent years shoring up the experience, accomplishments and recognition necessary to be considered credible contenders for higher office. Women start low and climb up, which means they may not climb as high. Women also tend to run for more collaborative legislative positions (school board, state legislature, Congress) rather than executive ones (mayor, governor, president). Men do the opposite, seeking executive roles, starting early and skipping ahead. Essentially all of the women running for president built their political lives in legislative bodies, and all but one also worked in law. Even the prominent young Democratic women making headlines outside of the presidential campaigns — Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Ilhan Omar, Ayanna Pressley — are doing so in this more traditionally female way of a step-by-step rise through legislative bodies. The female presidential contenders have not generally been elected to major executive roles. Nearly two-thirds of the men have. In a political environment where “fresh faces” are rewarded, this gives men an advantage. (It also seems to be largely benefiting white men this time around — just ask Julián Castro, 44, whose longer, ladder-climbing résumé has resulted in anemic press coverage). We want something new, but for women, unfamiliarity and youth end up being tied to incompetence.  Take Mr. Buttigieg, an indisputably intelligent and thoughtful man, whose youth has been wrought to his advantage. “When you run young, your face says you represent change,” Mr. Buttigieg told The Washington Post. Reporters deem him “authoritative and logical and very young,” noting that he’s “at the forefront of a new crop of political leaders.” He started his political career with a bid for Indiana state treasurer (he lost), then for mayor of South Bend (he won, then won re-election) and then for Democratic National Committee chairman (he dropped out). Now he’s seeking what would be his second executive role: president of the United States. Contrast that with Kirsten Gillibrand, who may now be solidly in middle age, but was a bright young thing once, too. Like Mr. Buttigieg, she went from college to graduate school (Oxford for him, U.C.L.A. Law for her) and then into the kind of corporate job increasingly considered a political liability on the left (management consulting for him, a law firm for her). From there, Ms. Gillibrand did the more typically female thing, climbing the ladder rung by rung: She worked on Hillary Clinton’s Senate campaign, then ran for Congress in a traditionally red district in New York before being appointed to complete Mrs. Clinton’s Senate term; she won re-election herself, twice. Only now, after more than a decade in legislative roles, is she running for president. It’s not just women’s and men’s paths that look different; it’s also how reporters tell their stories. Ms. Gillibrand’s red-district folksiness got her branded by some as “a country bumpkin who is in over her head.” Mr. Buttigieg’s is cast as a bonus — he doesn’t wear a jacket (“I just feel more comfortable with my sleeves rolled up,” he said) and can win in a red state. Ms. Gillibrand entered the Senate as its youngest member, a designation that was an immediate liability. Although she was at times called a “rising star,” she was caricatured as a clawing Tracy Flick, ambitious but unwilling to pay her dues. Her “aggressiveness seems almost gauche, even for a politician,” a journalist wrote. She was cast as “a young woman in a hurry.” Few seem worried that Mr. Buttigieg is in a hurry. Instead, people wonder whether America is ready for a millennial president, a question not asked in relation to the admittedly unlikely Tulsi Gabbard, also 37. Consider too that the years in which one is considered a fresh face or a rising star coincide with the years in which most Americans have children. Mr. O’Rourke, the father of three young children, has spoken (in a tone-deaf way, for which he later apologized) about his wife doing the work at home so that he could be away running for office multiple times. Mr. O’Rourke, who is 46, is cast as young even by his detractors (“a young man who’s got very little going for himself,” President Trump grumbled). Does the youthful label come from having young kids? His are 8, 10 and 12. But Ms. Gillibrand also became a parent in her mid-30s, and her sons are 10 and 15. Trevor Noah was certainly right when he said that at 52, Ms. Gillibrand is not exactly a “young mom.” But since when is a 46-year-old a “young man”? Both of them would be younger than the average American president, who is a touch over 55 — a statistic that includes a great many men born at a time when many people weren’t expected to live much past 40. While Ms. Gillibrand was called “Senator Working Mom,” Mr. O’Rourke’s status as a parent has been just one part of his story, not the core of it. After losing his Senate race, he took an extended solo road trip to clear his head and blog (or write “in a literary online diary”). A jaunt that would be portrayed as child abandonment had a woman done it “could help him politically, advancing his offbeat brand,” reporters mused. Few fretted about who was watching his children. Women typically find their family responsibilities to be less flexible. Elizabeth Warren was a young mother and a young law professor at the same time; according to a law school friend, she was also doing all of her family’s shopping, cooking and child care, and nearly dropped out of the work force as a result. One doesn’t imagine a Kerouac-style road trip was on the table for Ms. Warren as a young mom — and certainly not dreams of the presidency. That all came much later, as it does for most women. And later, of course, means older. Unfortunately for women, age poses an unsolvable problem: They are seen as too young and inexperienced right up until they are branded too old and tedious. Ms. Warren, for example, finds herself put in the same “old” category as Mr. Sanders and Joe Biden, even though both men are nearly a decade older than she is.  Men who are more or less the same age as Ms. Warren — Sherrod Brown (66), John Hickenlooper (67), Jay Inslee (68) — are not lumped in with the white-hairs. If women in their 40s are “in a hurry,” and women in their 50s are old news, and women in their 60s are just old, when, exactly, is a woman supposed to go to the White House? Jill Filipovic is the author of “The H Spot: The Feminist Pursuit of Happiness” and a contributing opinion writer. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Supported by By Sydney Ember and Astead W. Herndon [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join our conversation about the 2020 presidential race.] It was a made-for-social-media moment for Pete Buttigieg. In Philadelphia last month on his book tour, Mr. Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Ind., and a Democratic candidate for president, fielded an unlikely question from the audience: “Would you support a packing of the courts to expand the Supreme Court by four members?” The inquiry elicited titters from the politics-hungry crowd that appeared surprised by the question. But not from Mr. Buttigieg. “I don’t think we should be laughing at it,” he said. “In some ways it’s no more a shattering of norms than what’s already been done to get the judiciary to where it is today. ” His response drew immediate praise from liberal news outlets; ThinkProgress declared him the only Democratic candidate that seemed “serious about governing.” But if Mr. Buttigieg’s remarks were off-the-cuff, the question was not: It had been posed by a person involved with Pack the Courts, a liberal activist group that favors adding judges in order to flip the ideological tilt of the high court — known as court-packing. The success of the strategy — pushing an issue that had mostly thrived on the fringe into the 2020 conversation — illustrates how activists are leveraging the early stages of the Democratic primary, creating pseudo-litmus tests for candidates eager to respond to the energy that is driving more extreme policy proposals. For grass-roots organizers, the wide-open Democratic field — already veering to the left on taxes, health care, super PAC donations and other issues — provides multiple openings to elevate their agendas. In recent weeks they have helped spur similar exchanges on fraught topics like reparations and ending the Senate filibuster. They have also helped broaden the conversation on climate change to include an expansive proposal called the Green New Deal. Candidates, including those in the top tier, are increasingly being urged to address these topics in interviews, at events and during media appearances. Senator Bernie Sanders, for instance, has been asked repeatedly about reparations, including recently on ABC’s “The View.” Senator Elizabeth Warren answered a question about ending the filibuster at an event last week in New York. And on Sunday, Mr. Buttigieg was asked again about packing the courts — during a town hall-style forum on CNN. Representative Pramila Jayapal, the Washington State Democrat and co-chairwoman of the Congressional Progressive Caucus, said candidates who do not project boldness on such issues “are just not going to win.” She said the country was in a unique moment and that issues like court-packing give candidates opportunities to show they understand this. “Even if you don’t call it a litmus test, this is what defines us: a willingness and a courage to make bold changes — not to just follow when it’s all said and done,” she said. The impact on the race has already been palpable. Candidates who might have dodged questions on hot-button policies in the past are now finding themselves discussing once-audacious ideas in public forums, sometimes awkwardly so if they are caught off guard. [Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.] Lesser known candidates are also using the emerging issues as an opportunity to differentiate themselves, as Mr. Buttigieg did with his response on court packing. “My purpose is to get people thinking about what an ambitious agenda actually looks like,’’ Mr. Buttigieg said in a telephone interview this week, “and to remind everybody that structural reform is an option — whether it’s this, or the Electoral College, or any of the other stuff.’’ The former housing secretary Julián Castro called for a federal study of reparations for black Americans, even as several top-tier candidates waffled on their support, and during an interview on CNN over the weekend Mr. Castro called out Mr. Sanders by name for declining to support reparation payments. Gov. Jay Inslee of Washington has made the elimination of the Senate filibuster a major theme of his candidacy. “While the world burns, the Senate will sit in total inaction because of an antiquated vestige of a bygone era,” Mr. Inslee said in an interview, referring to the filibuster. “We’re in an internet age and this is something from the steam engine.” Most of the policies are largely rhetorical and probably politically unfeasible with Republicans controlling the Senate and the White House; court packing, for example, would amount to an extraordinary bucking of constitutional and political norms. There is also scant evidence that many of these issues are yet galvanizing a Democratic electorate more focused on nominating a candidate who can beat President Trump. “I would be knocked over with a feather if voters picked the Democratic nominee for president on the basis of getting rid of the filibuster,” said Robert Shrum, a longtime Democratic consultant. “That kind of process argument very seldom proves decisive in primaries.” The tactics activist groups are employing are similar to those used during the midterm elections to popularize issues like abolishing the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency, which gained momentum during the fight over immigration policies last summer. Sunrise Movement, the climate advocacy group that was founded in April 2017, has already had great success establishing its signature legislative proposal — the so-called Green New Deal, a sprawling economic blueprint to fight climate change, as well as societal problems like income and racial inequality — as a must-answer question for every presidential candidate. The youth-led organization has used high-profile endorsements and polarizing protest tactics to pressure Democrats and Republicans alike; it is already eyeing ways to push 2020 candidates to go even further on climate activism. “We’re going to ensure that no one gets out of these primary states like Iowa and New Hampshire without hearing about the Green New Deal over and over and over again,” said Varshini Prakash, the executive director of Sunrise Movement. “This is not going away,” Ms. Prakash, who is 25, said the lack of a 2020 front-runner has allowed grass-roots groups to play the cohort of candidates against one another on certain issues. She expects Sunrise Movement to raise the standards for candidates from simply endorsing the Green New Deal to an even greater commitment: prioritizing the proposal in the first 100 days of any Democratic administration. “Movements have changed everything,” she said, adding that Sunrise Movement plans to bring thousands of activists to the first Democratic presidential debate. “We are changing what it means for a politician to be a politician.” Other groups have also tried to impose their legislative wish-lists on the presidential field. Fair Fight Action, the voting rights movement born out of last year’s contentious governor’s race in Georgia, has asked candidates to make election rights and voter suppression a more central theme of their pitch. Common Defense, a collection of antiwar veterans, is circling a pledge among Democratic candidates to end what they call the “forever war” waged by the United States since 2001, which has already been signed by Ms. Warren and Mr. Sanders. Jenifer Fernandez Ancona, who helps lead Women Donors Network, a collective that funds grass-roots organizations nationally, said that voters want politicians whose policies meet the present crisis. And she said candidates that resist will be penalized at the ballot box. “The path to electability is through boldness right now,” she said. “It’s not just a litmus test for conversation; it’s actually going to show up in who is able to pass through these primary battles.” Like Mr. Buttigieg in Philadelphia, candidates are often addressing these issues in response to questions, during town-hall style forums and interviews, rather than pushing the policies themselves. “It’s all on the table, baby,” Ms. Warren said last Friday when asked about the filibuster at a rally in New York. The House progressive caucus may take the emergence of new issues even further. It recently acknowledged that it was considering new rules that would require its nearly 100 members to vote together on key issues for the group — a move aimed at increasing its power. Representative Mark Pocan, who serves as co-chairman with Ms. Jayapal, said the House progressives also hope to host presidential candidates during their annual summit this fall. “Actions speak stronger than words, and there are people running on progressive issues who are not who you think of as progressives, because they realize that’s what people want,” Mr. Pocan said. “But the devil’s in the details,” he said, “and it’s our job to now put meat on the bones of these issues.”   

Supported by By Sydney Ember and Astead W. Herndon [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join our conversation about the 2020 presidential race.] It was a made-for-social-media moment for Pete Buttigieg. In Philadelphia last month on his book tour, Mr. Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Ind., and a Democratic candidate for president, fielded an unlikely question from the audience: “Would you support a packing of the courts to expand the Supreme Court by four members?” The inquiry elicited titters from the politics-hungry crowd that appeared surprised by the question. But not from Mr. Buttigieg. “I don’t think we should be laughing at it,” he said. “In some ways it’s no more a shattering of norms than what’s already been done to get the judiciary to where it is today. ” His response drew immediate praise from liberal news outlets; ThinkProgress declared him the only Democratic candidate that seemed “serious about governing.” But if Mr. Buttigieg’s remarks were off-the-cuff, the question was not: It had been posed by a person involved with Pack the Courts, a liberal activist group that favors adding judges in order to flip the ideological tilt of the high court — known as court-packing. The success of the strategy — pushing an issue that had mostly thrived on the fringe into the 2020 conversation — illustrates how activists are leveraging the early stages of the Democratic primary, creating pseudo-litmus tests for candidates eager to respond to the energy that is driving more extreme policy proposals. For grass-roots organizers, the wide-open Democratic field — already veering to the left on taxes, health care, super PAC donations and other issues — provides multiple openings to elevate their agendas. In recent weeks they have helped spur similar exchanges on fraught topics like reparations and ending the Senate filibuster. They have also helped broaden the conversation on climate change to include an expansive proposal called the Green New Deal. Candidates, including those in the top tier, are increasingly being urged to address these topics in interviews, at events and during media appearances. Senator Bernie Sanders, for instance, has been asked repeatedly about reparations, including recently on ABC’s “The View.” Senator Elizabeth Warren answered a question about ending the filibuster at an event last week in New York. And on Sunday, Mr. Buttigieg was asked again about packing the courts — during a town hall-style forum on CNN. Representative Pramila Jayapal, the Washington State Democrat and co-chairwoman of the Congressional Progressive Caucus, said candidates who do not project boldness on such issues “are just not going to win.” She said the country was in a unique moment and that issues like court-packing give candidates opportunities to show they understand this. “Even if you don’t call it a litmus test, this is what defines us: a willingness and a courage to make bold changes — not to just follow when it’s all said and done,” she said. The impact on the race has already been palpable. Candidates who might have dodged questions on hot-button policies in the past are now finding themselves discussing once-audacious ideas in public forums, sometimes awkwardly so if they are caught off guard. [Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.] Lesser known candidates are also using the emerging issues as an opportunity to differentiate themselves, as Mr. Buttigieg did with his response on court packing. “My purpose is to get people thinking about what an ambitious agenda actually looks like,’’ Mr. Buttigieg said in a telephone interview this week, “and to remind everybody that structural reform is an option — whether it’s this, or the Electoral College, or any of the other stuff.’’ The former housing secretary Julián Castro called for a federal study of reparations for black Americans, even as several top-tier candidates waffled on their support, and during an interview on CNN over the weekend Mr. Castro called out Mr. Sanders by name for declining to support reparation payments. Gov. Jay Inslee of Washington has made the elimination of the Senate filibuster a major theme of his candidacy. “While the world burns, the Senate will sit in total inaction because of an antiquated vestige of a bygone era,” Mr. Inslee said in an interview, referring to the filibuster. “We’re in an internet age and this is something from the steam engine.” Most of the policies are largely rhetorical and probably politically unfeasible with Republicans controlling the Senate and the White House; court packing, for example, would amount to an extraordinary bucking of constitutional and political norms. There is also scant evidence that many of these issues are yet galvanizing a Democratic electorate more focused on nominating a candidate who can beat President Trump. “I would be knocked over with a feather if voters picked the Democratic nominee for president on the basis of getting rid of the filibuster,” said Robert Shrum, a longtime Democratic consultant. “That kind of process argument very seldom proves decisive in primaries.” The tactics activist groups are employing are similar to those used during the midterm elections to popularize issues like abolishing the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency, which gained momentum during the fight over immigration policies last summer. Sunrise Movement, the climate advocacy group that was founded in April 2017, has already had great success establishing its signature legislative proposal — the so-called Green New Deal, a sprawling economic blueprint to fight climate change, as well as societal problems like income and racial inequality — as a must-answer question for every presidential candidate. The youth-led organization has used high-profile endorsements and polarizing protest tactics to pressure Democrats and Republicans alike; it is already eyeing ways to push 2020 candidates to go even further on climate activism. “We’re going to ensure that no one gets out of these primary states like Iowa and New Hampshire without hearing about the Green New Deal over and over and over again,” said Varshini Prakash, the executive director of Sunrise Movement. “This is not going away,” Ms. Prakash, who is 25, said the lack of a 2020 front-runner has allowed grass-roots groups to play the cohort of candidates against one another on certain issues. She expects Sunrise Movement to raise the standards for candidates from simply endorsing the Green New Deal to an even greater commitment: prioritizing the proposal in the first 100 days of any Democratic administration. “Movements have changed everything,” she said, adding that Sunrise Movement plans to bring thousands of activists to the first Democratic presidential debate. “We are changing what it means for a politician to be a politician.” Other groups have also tried to impose their legislative wish-lists on the presidential field. Fair Fight Action, the voting rights movement born out of last year’s contentious governor’s race in Georgia, has asked candidates to make election rights and voter suppression a more central theme of their pitch. Common Defense, a collection of antiwar veterans, is circling a pledge among Democratic candidates to end what they call the “forever war” waged by the United States since 2001, which has already been signed by Ms. Warren and Mr. Sanders. Jenifer Fernandez Ancona, who helps lead Women Donors Network, a collective that funds grass-roots organizations nationally, said that voters want politicians whose policies meet the present crisis. And she said candidates that resist will be penalized at the ballot box. “The path to electability is through boldness right now,” she said. “It’s not just a litmus test for conversation; it’s actually going to show up in who is able to pass through these primary battles.” Like Mr. Buttigieg in Philadelphia, candidates are often addressing these issues in response to questions, during town-hall style forums and interviews, rather than pushing the policies themselves. “It’s all on the table, baby,” Ms. Warren said last Friday when asked about the filibuster at a rally in New York. The House progressive caucus may take the emergence of new issues even further. It recently acknowledged that it was considering new rules that would require its nearly 100 members to vote together on key issues for the group — a move aimed at increasing its power. Representative Mark Pocan, who serves as co-chairman with Ms. Jayapal, said the House progressives also hope to host presidential candidates during their annual summit this fall. “Actions speak stronger than words, and there are people running on progressive issues who are not who you think of as progressives, because they realize that’s what people want,” Mr. Pocan said. “But the devil’s in the details,” he said, “and it’s our job to now put meat on the bones of these issues.”   Supported by One Democrat speaks more languages than Donald Trump’s wives. By Gail Collins Opinion Columnist Wouldn’t it be nice to have a president who could speak another language? O.K., no fair saying it would be nice to have a president who could speak one. We’re thinking about the Democratic candidates now. Pete Buttigieg seems to be the name of the moment, and you can’t help noticing his linguistic talent. The Buttigieg folk say that besides English, he’s proficient in Spanish, French, Italian, Maltese, Norwegian, Arabic and Dari, a variation of Persian. Let’s go out on a limb and say he’s got this résumé category sewn up. Buttigieg picked up Arabic in college and Dari when he served in the military in Afghanistan. He reportedly learned Norwegian in order to read novels by Erlend Loe, most of which haven’t been translated into English. This makes perfect sense to me. When I was in college I took Russian because I wanted to read “War and Peace” in the original. I actually never progressed beyond “We Go to Shop With Grandmother,” but the impulse was absolutely identical. Obviously, multilingualism isn’t the most crucial thing you look at when you’re picking a president. Abraham Lincoln spoke nothing but English, while Herbert Hoover spoke Mandarin and translated mining books from Latin. POP QUIZ: Who was the only president for whom English was a second language? It was Martin Van Buren, who was raised speaking Dutch. We’re not going to subtract any points for this one, since there should be a rule against quizzes to which the answer is “Martin Van Buren.” This is definitely turning into a sterling Democratic campaign when it comes to linguistic diversity. Beto O’Rourke speaks Spanish and Kamala Harris’s staff says the senator, who went to high school in Quebec, speaks “conversational French.” Kirsten Gillibrand understands French, Spanish and Mandarin. John Hickenlooper picked up some Spanish in his school and travel. When he was governor of Colorado he gave a speech every year in Spanish, with friends to coach him “so I don’t mangle the pronunciation.” The working-on-Spanish category is pretty large. Julián Castro was raised in Texas by a Mexican-American mother who made it a point to speak only English to her sons. For years now, he’s been saying that he’s recapturing the family’s other language. “I’m resolved that before I die I want to speak it fluently,” he told Vogue in 2013. Well, he’s only 44. Recently, Castro told an NPR podcast that he now speaks Spanish “to some extent.” People almost always appreciate candidates who at least seem to be trying. Bill Clinton wowed the world when he threw in a few lines of German in a 1994 speech in Berlin. Jimmy Carter and George W. Bush both got points for their fumbling Spanish, and while Barack Obama doesn’t actually speak any other languages, he has to get an A for effort. Obama has, over the years, delivered remarks in Spanish, Swahili, pretty good Indonesian, pretty bad French, German and Hindi, an endeavor for which the international Hindi Association praised his “good intentions.” But sometimes nothing really works out. Cory Booker once addressed a radio reporter in Spanish, only to discover that the man was Swiss. “I do not speak Swiss. I cannot even say ‘Swiss cheese’ in Swiss,” the senator responded genially. Coldhearted observers noted that there is no such language as Swiss. Bernie Sanders, whose staff didn’t return a query about his linguistic skills, doesn’t seem to have a whole lot. He has described himself as “the son of a Polish immigrant who came to this country speaking no English,” but Sanders failed to rise to the occasion when he was asked to say something in his father’s native tongue. (“Unless ‘no’ is a Polish word, I can’t.”) It would have been nice, this week, to have had a president who could say a few words in French about the Cathedral of Notre-Dame. He would not necessarily have had to give an entire interview with a French-language television station like Buttigieg did. But a couple of prememorized, read-from-the-teleprompter sentences would have been appreciated. Donald Trump, of course, didn’t bother. You’d expect a man who talks about his father’s emigration from Germany to be more open to linguistic diversity — although, of course, Fred Trump was actually born in the Bronx. This is a man who ran TV commercials in which he attempted to speak Hindi in 2016 while attacking one of his primary opponents for speaking to reporters in Spanish. (“He should really set the example by speaking English while in the United States.”) If Trump runs for re-election against a Democrat with some language facility, chances are he’ll simply say anything but English is un-American. “My bet is if Trump ran against Buttigieg, he’d try to use it against him,” predicted presidential historian Michael Beschloss. It’s worked before. John Kerry and Mitt Romney both staggered under opponents’ hints that being able to speak French made them big sissies. Meanwhile, the language bar in the White House is set pretty low. Which is strange in a way, since the president’s first wife spoke five languages and his current one is also multilingual. Maybe it’s easier to be around him if you can always mentally switch into Slovenian. And for our part, be honest — it’s nice to know there’s at least a translator sitting between Trump and the rest of the world’s leaders. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Gail Collins is an Op-Ed columnist and a former member of the editorial board, and was the first woman to serve as the Times editorial page editor, from 2001 to 2007.  @GailCollins • Facebook 

Supported by One Democrat speaks more languages than Donald Trump’s wives. By Gail Collins Opinion Columnist Wouldn’t it be nice to have a president who could speak another language? O.K., no fair saying it would be nice to have a president who could speak one. We’re thinking about the Democratic candidates now. Pete Buttigieg seems to be the name of the moment, and you can’t help noticing his linguistic talent. The Buttigieg folk say that besides English, he’s proficient in Spanish, French, Italian, Maltese, Norwegian, Arabic and Dari, a variation of Persian. Let’s go out on a limb and say he’s got this résumé category sewn up. Buttigieg picked up Arabic in college and Dari when he served in the military in Afghanistan. He reportedly learned Norwegian in order to read novels by Erlend Loe, most of which haven’t been translated into English. This makes perfect sense to me. When I was in college I took Russian because I wanted to read “War and Peace” in the original. I actually never progressed beyond “We Go to Shop With Grandmother,” but the impulse was absolutely identical. Obviously, multilingualism isn’t the most crucial thing you look at when you’re picking a president. Abraham Lincoln spoke nothing but English, while Herbert Hoover spoke Mandarin and translated mining books from Latin. POP QUIZ: Who was the only president for whom English was a second language? It was Martin Van Buren, who was raised speaking Dutch. We’re not going to subtract any points for this one, since there should be a rule against quizzes to which the answer is “Martin Van Buren.” This is definitely turning into a sterling Democratic campaign when it comes to linguistic diversity. Beto O’Rourke speaks Spanish and Kamala Harris’s staff says the senator, who went to high school in Quebec, speaks “conversational French.” Kirsten Gillibrand understands French, Spanish and Mandarin. John Hickenlooper picked up some Spanish in his school and travel. When he was governor of Colorado he gave a speech every year in Spanish, with friends to coach him “so I don’t mangle the pronunciation.” The working-on-Spanish category is pretty large. Julián Castro was raised in Texas by a Mexican-American mother who made it a point to speak only English to her sons. For years now, he’s been saying that he’s recapturing the family’s other language. “I’m resolved that before I die I want to speak it fluently,” he told Vogue in 2013. Well, he’s only 44. Recently, Castro told an NPR podcast that he now speaks Spanish “to some extent.” People almost always appreciate candidates who at least seem to be trying. Bill Clinton wowed the world when he threw in a few lines of German in a 1994 speech in Berlin. Jimmy Carter and George W. Bush both got points for their fumbling Spanish, and while Barack Obama doesn’t actually speak any other languages, he has to get an A for effort. Obama has, over the years, delivered remarks in Spanish, Swahili, pretty good Indonesian, pretty bad French, German and Hindi, an endeavor for which the international Hindi Association praised his “good intentions.” But sometimes nothing really works out. Cory Booker once addressed a radio reporter in Spanish, only to discover that the man was Swiss. “I do not speak Swiss. I cannot even say ‘Swiss cheese’ in Swiss,” the senator responded genially. Coldhearted observers noted that there is no such language as Swiss. Bernie Sanders, whose staff didn’t return a query about his linguistic skills, doesn’t seem to have a whole lot. He has described himself as “the son of a Polish immigrant who came to this country speaking no English,” but Sanders failed to rise to the occasion when he was asked to say something in his father’s native tongue. (“Unless ‘no’ is a Polish word, I can’t.”) It would have been nice, this week, to have had a president who could say a few words in French about the Cathedral of Notre-Dame. He would not necessarily have had to give an entire interview with a French-language television station like Buttigieg did. But a couple of prememorized, read-from-the-teleprompter sentences would have been appreciated. Donald Trump, of course, didn’t bother. You’d expect a man who talks about his father’s emigration from Germany to be more open to linguistic diversity — although, of course, Fred Trump was actually born in the Bronx. This is a man who ran TV commercials in which he attempted to speak Hindi in 2016 while attacking one of his primary opponents for speaking to reporters in Spanish. (“He should really set the example by speaking English while in the United States.”) If Trump runs for re-election against a Democrat with some language facility, chances are he’ll simply say anything but English is un-American. “My bet is if Trump ran against Buttigieg, he’d try to use it against him,” predicted presidential historian Michael Beschloss. It’s worked before. John Kerry and Mitt Romney both staggered under opponents’ hints that being able to speak French made them big sissies. Meanwhile, the language bar in the White House is set pretty low. Which is strange in a way, since the president’s first wife spoke five languages and his current one is also multilingual. Maybe it’s easier to be around him if you can always mentally switch into Slovenian. And for our part, be honest — it’s nice to know there’s at least a translator sitting between Trump and the rest of the world’s leaders. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Gail Collins is an Op-Ed columnist and a former member of the editorial board, and was the first woman to serve as the Times editorial page editor, from 2001 to 2007.  @GailCollins • Facebook Supported by Nonfiction When you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission. By Adam Nagourney SHORTEST WAY HOME One Mayor’s Challenge and a Model for America’s Future By Pete Buttigieg 352 pp. Liveright Publishing. $27.95. Pete Buttigieg has been the mayor of South Bend, Ind., since 2012. He went to Harvard, spent two years as a Rhodes scholar at Oxford, where he studied Immanuel Kant and John Rawls, and served as a Navy lieutenant in Afghanistan. He speaks Arabic. He plays concert piano. He is gay. And now, at the age of 37, he has written a memoir, “Shortest Way Home.” On the face of it, this does seem a little early. Yes, Barack Obama wrote one in 1995, nine years before he made a name for himself with a speech at the Democratic National Convention in Boston. But Obama was an unusual figure, a graceful writer with an arresting story of being an African-American with national political ambitions growing up in the turbulence of a race-torn nation. The emergence of this memoir at this moment — Buttigieg (pronounced BOOT-edge-edge) has been elected to precisely one job so far — reflects the ambition and impatience of the man we get to know in these pages. He ran for Indiana state treasurer when he was 28, and was trounced. He withdrew after a heading-for-defeat bid to become the Democratic National Committee chairman in 2017. But more than that, Buttigieg’s accelerated career arc is testimony to our times, to how the pay-your-dues traditions that once governed politics have been tossed aside with the election of Donald Trump. It seems no longer surprising that someone most people have never heard of has delivered a memoir: It has become the modern equivalent of an early outing to New Hampshire. With his rich résumé and his data-driven approach to running South Bend, Buttigieg has drawn attention from national Democrats and been suggested as potential presidential material by, among others, Frank Bruni in The New York Times. Just in case there was any doubt, Buttigieg announced this week that he was forming an exploratory committee, the first step toward a run for the White House. And no wonder: His hometown, once devastated by the shuttering of a Studebaker plant — he writes of passing “the acres of collapsing Studebaker factories” on his way to school — is now thriving. If the underlying point of this book is to draw attention to himself as a future Democratic leader for a party aching for one, then his thumping re-election as mayor in a state Trump captured with 56 percent is quite a selling card. No small part of the fascination is that he is openly gay, twice elected in what he has sardonically described as “flyover country.” Yet until the final chapters — personal, beguiling and quite moving as he talks about coming out and getting married — it is a subject he largely glosses over. It takes more than 40 pages until he clearly alludes to being gay, in a quick detour as he describes witnessing the rise of the infant Facebook at Harvard. Buttigieg takes us through growing up in South Bend, attending an Ivy League school, becoming a management consultant, joining the Navy Reserve. Much of his attention is on City Hall, with a green-eyeshade description of his methodical approach to dealing with 1,000 shuttered homes or increasing the efficiency of picking up the trash. There really is a chapter titled “Talent, Purpose and the Smartest Sewers in the World.” But this is what mayors do. Until he recounts writing his coming-out essay for The South Bend Tribune, I had begun to wonder if Buttigieg had decided to airbrush his life story, with an eye to some future opposition researcher combing through these pages. This lends a cautious, sanitized feeling to some episodes. When he writes about dealing with Mike Pence (who was then the governor) as Pence championed a “religious freedom” bill that critics argued would let organizations discriminate against gays and lesbians, Buttigieg comes across as just another player at the table. I would have liked to learn, for example, if he ever wondered whether Pence was aware that this unmarried eligible bachelor was actually gay. But the book lifts off as he returns from Afghanistan and decides it was “time to get serious about sorting out my personal life.” He recounts in satisfying detail the complexities of coming out when you are the mayor of South Bend. “The scenario of a 30-something mayor, single, gay, interested in a long-term relationship and looking for a date in Indiana must have been a first,” he writes. The story of his meeting a man (you guessed it: online) is all the more moving for its understatement and delayed delivery. Buttigieg represents a new generation of gay Americans, one whose sexuality is not intrinsic to their identity. No one would ever accuse Buttigieg of being an evocative writer, but the story is told with brisk engagement — it is difficult not to like him — without sinking into the kind of prose one might fear from someone trained in writing reports for McKinsey. He writes with particular clarity when it comes to the subject of romance: “I was in my 30s, but my training age, so to speak, was practically 0. On my 33rd birthday, I was starting my fourth year as the mayor of a sizable city. I had served in a foreign war and dined with senators and governors. I had seen the Red Square and the Great Pyramids of Giza, knew how to order a sandwich in seven languages, and was the owner of a large historic home on the St. Joseph River. But I had absolutely no idea what it was like to be in love.” When Obama wrote his memoir, the idea that the nation would soon put an African-American in the White House seemed beyond the realm of the possible. After reading this memoir written 25 years later, the notion that Buttigieg might be the nation’s first openly gay president doesn’t feel quite as far-fetched. Adam Nagourney is the Los Angeles bureau chief of The Times and the co-author of “Out for Good: The Struggle to Build a Gay Rights Movement in America.” 

Supported by Nonfiction When you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission. By Adam Nagourney SHORTEST WAY HOME One Mayor’s Challenge and a Model for America’s Future By Pete Buttigieg 352 pp. Liveright Publishing. $27.95. Pete Buttigieg has been the mayor of South Bend, Ind., since 2012. He went to Harvard, spent two years as a Rhodes scholar at Oxford, where he studied Immanuel Kant and John Rawls, and served as a Navy lieutenant in Afghanistan. He speaks Arabic. He plays concert piano. He is gay. And now, at the age of 37, he has written a memoir, “Shortest Way Home.” On the face of it, this does seem a little early. Yes, Barack Obama wrote one in 1995, nine years before he made a name for himself with a speech at the Democratic National Convention in Boston. But Obama was an unusual figure, a graceful writer with an arresting story of being an African-American with national political ambitions growing up in the turbulence of a race-torn nation. The emergence of this memoir at this moment — Buttigieg (pronounced BOOT-edge-edge) has been elected to precisely one job so far — reflects the ambition and impatience of the man we get to know in these pages. He ran for Indiana state treasurer when he was 28, and was trounced. He withdrew after a heading-for-defeat bid to become the Democratic National Committee chairman in 2017. But more than that, Buttigieg’s accelerated career arc is testimony to our times, to how the pay-your-dues traditions that once governed politics have been tossed aside with the election of Donald Trump. It seems no longer surprising that someone most people have never heard of has delivered a memoir: It has become the modern equivalent of an early outing to New Hampshire. With his rich résumé and his data-driven approach to running South Bend, Buttigieg has drawn attention from national Democrats and been suggested as potential presidential material by, among others, Frank Bruni in The New York Times. Just in case there was any doubt, Buttigieg announced this week that he was forming an exploratory committee, the first step toward a run for the White House. And no wonder: His hometown, once devastated by the shuttering of a Studebaker plant — he writes of passing “the acres of collapsing Studebaker factories” on his way to school — is now thriving. If the underlying point of this book is to draw attention to himself as a future Democratic leader for a party aching for one, then his thumping re-election as mayor in a state Trump captured with 56 percent is quite a selling card. No small part of the fascination is that he is openly gay, twice elected in what he has sardonically described as “flyover country.” Yet until the final chapters — personal, beguiling and quite moving as he talks about coming out and getting married — it is a subject he largely glosses over. It takes more than 40 pages until he clearly alludes to being gay, in a quick detour as he describes witnessing the rise of the infant Facebook at Harvard. Buttigieg takes us through growing up in South Bend, attending an Ivy League school, becoming a management consultant, joining the Navy Reserve. Much of his attention is on City Hall, with a green-eyeshade description of his methodical approach to dealing with 1,000 shuttered homes or increasing the efficiency of picking up the trash. There really is a chapter titled “Talent, Purpose and the Smartest Sewers in the World.” But this is what mayors do. Until he recounts writing his coming-out essay for The South Bend Tribune, I had begun to wonder if Buttigieg had decided to airbrush his life story, with an eye to some future opposition researcher combing through these pages. This lends a cautious, sanitized feeling to some episodes. When he writes about dealing with Mike Pence (who was then the governor) as Pence championed a “religious freedom” bill that critics argued would let organizations discriminate against gays and lesbians, Buttigieg comes across as just another player at the table. I would have liked to learn, for example, if he ever wondered whether Pence was aware that this unmarried eligible bachelor was actually gay. But the book lifts off as he returns from Afghanistan and decides it was “time to get serious about sorting out my personal life.” He recounts in satisfying detail the complexities of coming out when you are the mayor of South Bend. “The scenario of a 30-something mayor, single, gay, interested in a long-term relationship and looking for a date in Indiana must have been a first,” he writes. The story of his meeting a man (you guessed it: online) is all the more moving for its understatement and delayed delivery. Buttigieg represents a new generation of gay Americans, one whose sexuality is not intrinsic to their identity. No one would ever accuse Buttigieg of being an evocative writer, but the story is told with brisk engagement — it is difficult not to like him — without sinking into the kind of prose one might fear from someone trained in writing reports for McKinsey. He writes with particular clarity when it comes to the subject of romance: “I was in my 30s, but my training age, so to speak, was practically 0. On my 33rd birthday, I was starting my fourth year as the mayor of a sizable city. I had served in a foreign war and dined with senators and governors. I had seen the Red Square and the Great Pyramids of Giza, knew how to order a sandwich in seven languages, and was the owner of a large historic home on the St. Joseph River. But I had absolutely no idea what it was like to be in love.” When Obama wrote his memoir, the idea that the nation would soon put an African-American in the White House seemed beyond the realm of the possible. After reading this memoir written 25 years later, the notion that Buttigieg might be the nation’s first openly gay president doesn’t feel quite as far-fetched. Adam Nagourney is the Los Angeles bureau chief of The Times and the co-author of “Out for Good: The Struggle to Build a Gay Rights Movement in America.” Supported by And Democrats better not eat their own. By Frank Bruni Opinion Columnist This article is part of the Frank Bruni newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the free newsletter every Wednesday. How do Democrats properly vet their candidates for president without cannibalizing them? How do they rightly insist on sensitive and inclusive leaders while making allowances for past mistakes, present quirks, human messiness and the differences in the conversation and the culture now versus 10 or 20 or 40 years ago? That’s emerging as a central challenge of the Democratic presidential primary. And it’s worrying me. I’m worried because there was an actual mini-debate on the left recently over whether Pete Buttigieg is gay enough. Do his whiteness, upper-middle-class background and Harvard and Oxford degrees nullify his experience as a minority and undercut his status as a trailblazer? This question is out there, in both senses of that phrase. I’m worried because it in some ways echoes an earlier question about whether Kamala Harris — whose father came from Jamaica, whose mother came from India and whose husband is white — is black enough. And I’m worried because of what Joe Biden is going through — because of the intensity of the censure that he faced after the Nevada politician Lucy Flores’s allegation and because of the fixation on precisely what kind of apology he must issue. [Get a more personal, less conventional take on political developments, newsmakers, cultural milestones and more with Frank Bruni’s exclusive commentary every week. Sign up for his newsletter.] Flores of course accused him of coming up behind her, touching her shoulders and kissing the back of her head: a gesture that’s inappropriate and demeaning. Biden says that he doesn’t recall the incident, from 2014. The media has given this breathless coverage. I’ve written that I don’t think Biden, 76, should run, for many reasons, including that someone in politics as long as he has been carries too much baggage; that Democratic voters have generally preferred candidates significantly younger than he is; and that he mismanaged and failed miserably in his two prior presidential campaigns. But I feel just as strongly that Democrats need to show some proportion, realism and reason as they assess and react to candidates (or, in Biden’s case, probable candidates). With Biden especially but with others as well, too many Democrats aren’t doing that. It’s nonnegotiable that Democrats hold their presidential aspirants to high standards on issues of racial justice, gender equality and more. It’s crucial that the party nominate someone who can credibly represent its proudly diverse ranks. But it’s also important that the party not demand a degree of purity that nobody attains. I’m not recommending the Republicans’ course in accepting and protecting Donald Trump, which was to bury principles so deep that they may never be exhumed. I’m saying that to turn the Democratic primary into a nonstop apology tour when the nominee will be going up against a president never expected to apologize for anything is a risky strategy. It obsesses over the flaws in candidates who have many strengths, defining them in terms of what they seek forgiveness for. It blurs the line between job interview and inquisition. Taken too far, it rips contenders to shreds before Trump even takes out his scissors. As for the mini-debate about Buttigieg’s gayness, it arose principally from this column in Slate, which included the following paragraph: “A marginalized sexual orientation can remain unspoken and unnoticed for as long as a queer person desires. A gay man who conforms to a critical mass of gendered expectations can move through life without his sexuality attending every interaction, even after he comes out. Buttigieg, for instance, would register on only the most finely tuned gaydar. Most people who are aware of his candidacy probably know he’s gay, but his every appearance doesn’t activate the ‘Hey, that’s that homosexual gentleman’ response in the average brain. That doesn’t mean he’s not gay enough — there’s really no such measure. It just means that he might not be up against quite the same hurdles that a gay candidate without such sturdy ties to straight culture would be.” The author is asserting that Buttigieg, 37, the mayor of South Bend, Ind., doesn’t come across as particularly gay, meaning . . . what? That he lacks stereotypical mannerisms? That his voice isn’t high-pitched? I’m kind of floored, because I and other gay people around my age (54) or older spent most of our lives educating people about the bigotry and inaccuracy of those very stereotypes and trumpeting the message — the truth! — that gay people can be every bit as buttoned-down and strait-laced as, well, Pete Buttigieg! Now his divergence from those stereotypes is deemed remarkable and in need of dissection? Strange days indeed. Also, I guarantee you that Buttigieg’s adherence to “a critical mass of gendered expectations” and failure to “activate” the homosexual-alert siren don’t mean that being gay has been incidental to his life and is incidental to his perspective. That he didn’t come out until he was 33 is all the proof you need that he wrestled privately with his sexual orientation and with fears about how the world would respond to it and to him. And when I first met and interviewed him nearly three years ago, this is how he argued that Democrats should reclaim the word “freedom” from Republicans, who have tried to reserve it for their brand: “You’re not free if you have crushing medical debt. You’re not free if you’re being treated differently because of who you are. What has really affected my personal freedom more: the fact that I don’t have the freedom to pollute a certain river, or the fact that for part of my adult life, I didn’t have the freedom to marry somebody I was in love with? We’re talking about deep, personal freedom.” He sounds sufficiently gay to me. His powers of empathy seem plenty informed by his sexual orientation. And we need to stop making assumptions about how well someone can understand and address what minorities go through based on his or her looks or vocal inflections or anything of the sort. That’s the quintessence of prejudice. And it’s the antithesis of enlightenment. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. I invite you to sign up for my free weekly email newsletter. You can follow me on Twitter (@FrankBruni).  Frank Bruni has been with The Times since 1995 and held a variety of jobs — including White House reporter, Rome bureau chief and chief restaurant critic — before becoming a columnist in 2011. He is the author of three best-selling books.   @FrankBruni • Facebook 

Supported by And Democrats better not eat their own. By Frank Bruni Opinion Columnist This article is part of the Frank Bruni newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the free newsletter every Wednesday. How do Democrats properly vet their candidates for president without cannibalizing them? How do they rightly insist on sensitive and inclusive leaders while making allowances for past mistakes, present quirks, human messiness and the differences in the conversation and the culture now versus 10 or 20 or 40 years ago? That’s emerging as a central challenge of the Democratic presidential primary. And it’s worrying me. I’m worried because there was an actual mini-debate on the left recently over whether Pete Buttigieg is gay enough. Do his whiteness, upper-middle-class background and Harvard and Oxford degrees nullify his experience as a minority and undercut his status as a trailblazer? This question is out there, in both senses of that phrase. I’m worried because it in some ways echoes an earlier question about whether Kamala Harris — whose father came from Jamaica, whose mother came from India and whose husband is white — is black enough. And I’m worried because of what Joe Biden is going through — because of the intensity of the censure that he faced after the Nevada politician Lucy Flores’s allegation and because of the fixation on precisely what kind of apology he must issue. [Get a more personal, less conventional take on political developments, newsmakers, cultural milestones and more with Frank Bruni’s exclusive commentary every week. Sign up for his newsletter.] Flores of course accused him of coming up behind her, touching her shoulders and kissing the back of her head: a gesture that’s inappropriate and demeaning. Biden says that he doesn’t recall the incident, from 2014. The media has given this breathless coverage. I’ve written that I don’t think Biden, 76, should run, for many reasons, including that someone in politics as long as he has been carries too much baggage; that Democratic voters have generally preferred candidates significantly younger than he is; and that he mismanaged and failed miserably in his two prior presidential campaigns. But I feel just as strongly that Democrats need to show some proportion, realism and reason as they assess and react to candidates (or, in Biden’s case, probable candidates). With Biden especially but with others as well, too many Democrats aren’t doing that. It’s nonnegotiable that Democrats hold their presidential aspirants to high standards on issues of racial justice, gender equality and more. It’s crucial that the party nominate someone who can credibly represent its proudly diverse ranks. But it’s also important that the party not demand a degree of purity that nobody attains. I’m not recommending the Republicans’ course in accepting and protecting Donald Trump, which was to bury principles so deep that they may never be exhumed. I’m saying that to turn the Democratic primary into a nonstop apology tour when the nominee will be going up against a president never expected to apologize for anything is a risky strategy. It obsesses over the flaws in candidates who have many strengths, defining them in terms of what they seek forgiveness for. It blurs the line between job interview and inquisition. Taken too far, it rips contenders to shreds before Trump even takes out his scissors. As for the mini-debate about Buttigieg’s gayness, it arose principally from this column in Slate, which included the following paragraph: “A marginalized sexual orientation can remain unspoken and unnoticed for as long as a queer person desires. A gay man who conforms to a critical mass of gendered expectations can move through life without his sexuality attending every interaction, even after he comes out. Buttigieg, for instance, would register on only the most finely tuned gaydar. Most people who are aware of his candidacy probably know he’s gay, but his every appearance doesn’t activate the ‘Hey, that’s that homosexual gentleman’ response in the average brain. That doesn’t mean he’s not gay enough — there’s really no such measure. It just means that he might not be up against quite the same hurdles that a gay candidate without such sturdy ties to straight culture would be.” The author is asserting that Buttigieg, 37, the mayor of South Bend, Ind., doesn’t come across as particularly gay, meaning . . . what? That he lacks stereotypical mannerisms? That his voice isn’t high-pitched? I’m kind of floored, because I and other gay people around my age (54) or older spent most of our lives educating people about the bigotry and inaccuracy of those very stereotypes and trumpeting the message — the truth! — that gay people can be every bit as buttoned-down and strait-laced as, well, Pete Buttigieg! Now his divergence from those stereotypes is deemed remarkable and in need of dissection? Strange days indeed. Also, I guarantee you that Buttigieg’s adherence to “a critical mass of gendered expectations” and failure to “activate” the homosexual-alert siren don’t mean that being gay has been incidental to his life and is incidental to his perspective. That he didn’t come out until he was 33 is all the proof you need that he wrestled privately with his sexual orientation and with fears about how the world would respond to it and to him. And when I first met and interviewed him nearly three years ago, this is how he argued that Democrats should reclaim the word “freedom” from Republicans, who have tried to reserve it for their brand: “You’re not free if you have crushing medical debt. You’re not free if you’re being treated differently because of who you are. What has really affected my personal freedom more: the fact that I don’t have the freedom to pollute a certain river, or the fact that for part of my adult life, I didn’t have the freedom to marry somebody I was in love with? We’re talking about deep, personal freedom.” He sounds sufficiently gay to me. His powers of empathy seem plenty informed by his sexual orientation. And we need to stop making assumptions about how well someone can understand and address what minorities go through based on his or her looks or vocal inflections or anything of the sort. That’s the quintessence of prejudice. And it’s the antithesis of enlightenment. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. I invite you to sign up for my free weekly email newsletter. You can follow me on Twitter (@FrankBruni).  Frank Bruni has been with The Times since 1995 and held a variety of jobs — including White House reporter, Rome bureau chief and chief restaurant critic — before becoming a columnist in 2011. He is the author of three best-selling books.   @FrankBruni • Facebook Supported by Growing inequality threatens our most basic democratic principles. By Michael Tomasky Contributing Opinion Writer Pete Buttigieg, who’s shown an impressive knack for putting matters well in these early days of the 2020 presidential race, nailed it recently when Chuck Todd of NBC asked him about capitalism. Of course I’m a capitalist, he said; America “is a capitalist society.” But, he continued: “It’s got to be democratic capitalism.”  Mr. Buttigieg said that when capitalism becomes unrestrained by democratic checks and impulses, that’s no longer the kind of capitalism that once produced broad prosperity in this country. “If you want to see what happens when you have capitalism without democracy, you can see it very clearly in Russia,” he said. “It turns into crony capitalism, and that turns into oligarchy.” Aside from enabling Mr. Buttigieg, the South Bend, Ind., mayor, to swat away a question that has bedeviled some others, his rhetoric reminds us of a crucial point: There is, or should be, a democratic element to capitalism — and an economic element to how we define democracy. After all, oligarchy does have an economic element to it; in fact, it is explicitly economic. Oligarchy is the rule of the few, and these few have been understood since Aristotle’s time to be men of wealth, property, nobility, what have you. But somehow, as the definition of democracy has been handed down to us over the years, the word has come to mean the existence and exercise of a few basic rights and principles. The people — the “demos” — are imbued with no particular economic characteristic. This is wrong. Our definition of democracy needs to change. Democracy can’t flourish in a context of grotesque concentration of wealth. This idea is neither new nor radical nor alien. It is old, mainstream and as American as Thomas Jefferson. I invoke Jefferson for a reason. Everyone knows how he was occupying his time in the summer of 1776; he was writing the Declaration of Independence. But what was he up to that fall? He was a member of the Virginia House of Delegates, and he was taking the lead in writing and sponsoring legislation to abolish the commonwealth’s laws upholding “entail” (which kept large estates within families across generations) and primogeniture. Mere coincidence that he moved so quickly from writing the founding document of democracy to writing a bill abolishing inheritance laws brought over from England? Hardly. He believed, as the founders did generally, that excess inherited wealth was fundamentally incompatible with democracy. They were most concerned with inherited wealth, as was the Scottish economist Adam Smith, whom conservatives invoke constantly today but who would in fact be appalled by the propagandistic phrase “death tax” — in their time, inherited wealth was the oppressive economic problem. But their economic concerns weren’t limited to that. They saw clearly the link between democratic health and general economic prosperity. Here is John Adams, not exactly Jefferson’s best friend: All elements of society, he once wrote, must “cooperate in this one democratical principle, that the end of all government is the happiness of the People: and in this other, that the greatest happiness of the greatest Number is the point to be obtained.” “Happiness” to the founders meant economic well-being, and note that Adams called it “democratical.” So, yes, democracy and the kind of economic inequality we’ve seen in this country in recent decades don’t mix. Some will rejoin that many nations even more unequal than ours are still democracies — South Africa, Brazil, India. But are those the models to which the United States of America should aspire? A number of scholars have made these arguments in recent years, notably Ganesh Sitaraman in his book “The Crisis of the Middle-Class Constitution.” All that work has been vitally important. But now that some politicians are saying it, we can finally have the broad national conversation we’ve desperately needed for years. Bernie Sanders has proposed an inheritance tax that the founders would love, and Elizabeth Warren has proposed a wealth tax of which they’d surely approve. But you don’t have to be a supporter of either of those candidates or their plans to get behind the general idea that great concentration of wealth is undemocratic. Policies built around this idea will not turn America into the Soviet Union or, in the au courant formulation, Venezuela. They will make it the nation the founders intended. And this, as Mr. Buttigieg’s words suggest, is how Democratic candidates should answer the socialism question (with the apparent exception of the socialist Mr. Sanders). No, I’m a capitalist. And that’s why I want capitalism to change. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Michael Tomasky is a columnist for The Daily Beast, editor of Democracy: A Journal of Ideas and a contributing opinion writer. His latest book is "If We Can Keep It: How the Republic Collapsed and How It Might Be Saved."   @mtomasky 

Supported by Growing inequality threatens our most basic democratic principles. By Michael Tomasky Contributing Opinion Writer Pete Buttigieg, who’s shown an impressive knack for putting matters well in these early days of the 2020 presidential race, nailed it recently when Chuck Todd of NBC asked him about capitalism. Of course I’m a capitalist, he said; America “is a capitalist society.” But, he continued: “It’s got to be democratic capitalism.”  Mr. Buttigieg said that when capitalism becomes unrestrained by democratic checks and impulses, that’s no longer the kind of capitalism that once produced broad prosperity in this country. “If you want to see what happens when you have capitalism without democracy, you can see it very clearly in Russia,” he said. “It turns into crony capitalism, and that turns into oligarchy.” Aside from enabling Mr. Buttigieg, the South Bend, Ind., mayor, to swat away a question that has bedeviled some others, his rhetoric reminds us of a crucial point: There is, or should be, a democratic element to capitalism — and an economic element to how we define democracy. After all, oligarchy does have an economic element to it; in fact, it is explicitly economic. Oligarchy is the rule of the few, and these few have been understood since Aristotle’s time to be men of wealth, property, nobility, what have you. But somehow, as the definition of democracy has been handed down to us over the years, the word has come to mean the existence and exercise of a few basic rights and principles. The people — the “demos” — are imbued with no particular economic characteristic. This is wrong. Our definition of democracy needs to change. Democracy can’t flourish in a context of grotesque concentration of wealth. This idea is neither new nor radical nor alien. It is old, mainstream and as American as Thomas Jefferson. I invoke Jefferson for a reason. Everyone knows how he was occupying his time in the summer of 1776; he was writing the Declaration of Independence. But what was he up to that fall? He was a member of the Virginia House of Delegates, and he was taking the lead in writing and sponsoring legislation to abolish the commonwealth’s laws upholding “entail” (which kept large estates within families across generations) and primogeniture. Mere coincidence that he moved so quickly from writing the founding document of democracy to writing a bill abolishing inheritance laws brought over from England? Hardly. He believed, as the founders did generally, that excess inherited wealth was fundamentally incompatible with democracy. They were most concerned with inherited wealth, as was the Scottish economist Adam Smith, whom conservatives invoke constantly today but who would in fact be appalled by the propagandistic phrase “death tax” — in their time, inherited wealth was the oppressive economic problem. But their economic concerns weren’t limited to that. They saw clearly the link between democratic health and general economic prosperity. Here is John Adams, not exactly Jefferson’s best friend: All elements of society, he once wrote, must “cooperate in this one democratical principle, that the end of all government is the happiness of the People: and in this other, that the greatest happiness of the greatest Number is the point to be obtained.” “Happiness” to the founders meant economic well-being, and note that Adams called it “democratical.” So, yes, democracy and the kind of economic inequality we’ve seen in this country in recent decades don’t mix. Some will rejoin that many nations even more unequal than ours are still democracies — South Africa, Brazil, India. But are those the models to which the United States of America should aspire? A number of scholars have made these arguments in recent years, notably Ganesh Sitaraman in his book “The Crisis of the Middle-Class Constitution.” All that work has been vitally important. But now that some politicians are saying it, we can finally have the broad national conversation we’ve desperately needed for years. Bernie Sanders has proposed an inheritance tax that the founders would love, and Elizabeth Warren has proposed a wealth tax of which they’d surely approve. But you don’t have to be a supporter of either of those candidates or their plans to get behind the general idea that great concentration of wealth is undemocratic. Policies built around this idea will not turn America into the Soviet Union or, in the au courant formulation, Venezuela. They will make it the nation the founders intended. And this, as Mr. Buttigieg’s words suggest, is how Democratic candidates should answer the socialism question (with the apparent exception of the socialist Mr. Sanders). No, I’m a capitalist. And that’s why I want capitalism to change. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Michael Tomasky is a columnist for The Daily Beast, editor of Democracy: A Journal of Ideas and a contributing opinion writer. His latest book is "If We Can Keep It: How the Republic Collapsed and How It Might Be Saved."   @mtomasky Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — As U.S. Democrats emphasize building their 2020 presidential campaigns on grassroots support, fewer than half amassed at least 50 percent of their early financial backing from small-dollar donations, a Reuters analysis found. Candidates seeking the White House filed their first-quarter fundraising totals on Monday, revealing that many are still dependent on checks exceeding $200. Of the 15 Democrats who launched campaigns before April 1, only six amassed at least half their hauls from small-dollar donations.  Many candidates are still leaning on donors in their home states for large checks. Nine Democratic candidates received the bulk of their contributions of $200 or more from their home states, the Reuters analysis found.  Early fundraising prowess can signal the strength of a candidate's campaign. Raising small checks from more donors can act as a test of popular support. Building a broad donor base that stretches beyond a candidate's home state can be evidence of gaining traction. Many Democrats have touted their support among so-called "small-dollar" donors, those who give less than $200. But only six -- U.S. Senator Bernie Sanders; U.S. Senator Elizabeth Warren; former U.S. Representative Beto O'Rourke; Mayor Pete Buttigieg of South Bend, Indiana; U.S. Representative Tulsi Gabbard; and Andrew Yang, a former tech executive -- are relying chiefly on those small-dollar donors. (Fundraising graphic: https://tmsnrt.rs/2InLYHd) The analysis includes fundraising reports covering the first three months of 2019 by the candidates who launched their campaigns prior to April 1. The field of candidates has since swelled, with 18 Democrats vying to win the party's nomination to challenge President Donald Trump in November 2020. (Candidate graphic: https://tmsnrt.rs/2Ff62ZC) Sanders, of Vermont, benefited the most from small-dollar donors in the first quarter, with about 84 percent of his $18 million haul coming from individuals who contributed less than $200. Sanders also had the most geographic diversity in his donations, with California donors accounting for 27 percent of his donations of $200 or more. Less than 2 percent of his donations came from his home state.  Warren - the only candidate to also swear off attending big ticket fundraisers - reported that about 70 percent of the $6 million she raised in the first quarter was from small-dollar donors. Massachusetts donors accounted for 25 percent of contributions over $200. Small-dollar donations can help catapult a candidate into the spotlight. Buttigieg until recently did not have a national profile, but raised $7 million during the first quarter of 2019 - of which 64 percent came from small donations.  In a move to show they are serious about eliminating big money from politics, most Democratic presidential candidates have sworn off donations from corporate political fundraising committees. Some have nixed taking checks from registered lobbyists. The Democratic National Committee announced earlier this year that small-dollar, grassroots support will be one of the metrics it uses to determine who qualifies to participate in a series of nationally televised primary debates that will begin in June.  Senator Kamala Harris had the second-largest Democratic fundraising haul, with 37 percent of her $12 million coming from small-dollar donors.  O'Rourke reported that 59 percent of his $9.4 million was from donations of $200 or less. More than $2.1 million came from Texans who wrote checks of $200 or more. On the other end of the spectrum, John Hickenlooper, the former governor of Colorado, raised only 10 percent of his donations in $200 or smaller contributions. There was also little geographic variation among his contributors, with more than 60 percent of donations over $200 coming from his home state.  U.S. Senators Cory Booker, of New Jersey, and Kirsten Gillibrand, of New York, each raised about 16 percent of their cash from small-dollar donors.  Sanders, Warren and Buttigieg have sworn off corporate PAC money, but all raised heavily from people working in the technology industry. When looking by employer at their donors who contributed more than $200, all three raised more from Alphabet Inc Google employees than any other company. Sanders and Buttigieg raised more from people who were software developers or engineers than any other occupation. (Industry graphic: https://tmsnrt.rs/2IqC6wu)  Warren, who has called for breaking up big tech companies, also raised from employees working at Yelp. Donors to five candidates - O'Rourke, Warren, Harris, Gillibrand and Julian Castro, the former Housing chief - were more likely to be lawyers. Three candidates brought significant hauls from donors who listed their occupation as "homemaker" - Booker, Gillibrand and Gabbard.  (Reporting by Amanda Becker, Ginger Gibson and Grant Smith; Editing by Susan Thomas and Lisa Shumaker)

Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — As U.S. Democrats emphasize building their 2020 presidential campaigns on grassroots support, fewer than half amassed at least 50 percent of their early financial backing from small-dollar donations, a Reuters analysis found. Candidates seeking the White House filed their first-quarter fundraising totals on Monday, revealing that many are still dependent on checks exceeding $200. Of the 15 Democrats who launched campaigns before April 1, only six amassed at least half their hauls from small-dollar donations.  Many candidates are still leaning on donors in their home states for large checks. Nine Democratic candidates received the bulk of their contributions of $200 or more from their home states, the Reuters analysis found.  Early fundraising prowess can signal the strength of a candidate's campaign. Raising small checks from more donors can act as a test of popular support. Building a broad donor base that stretches beyond a candidate's home state can be evidence of gaining traction. Many Democrats have touted their support among so-called "small-dollar" donors, those who give less than $200. But only six -- U.S. Senator Bernie Sanders; U.S. Senator Elizabeth Warren; former U.S. Representative Beto O'Rourke; Mayor Pete Buttigieg of South Bend, Indiana; U.S. Representative Tulsi Gabbard; and Andrew Yang, a former tech executive -- are relying chiefly on those small-dollar donors. (Fundraising graphic: https://tmsnrt.rs/2InLYHd) The analysis includes fundraising reports covering the first three months of 2019 by the candidates who launched their campaigns prior to April 1. The field of candidates has since swelled, with 18 Democrats vying to win the party's nomination to challenge President Donald Trump in November 2020. (Candidate graphic: https://tmsnrt.rs/2Ff62ZC) Sanders, of Vermont, benefited the most from small-dollar donors in the first quarter, with about 84 percent of his $18 million haul coming from individuals who contributed less than $200. Sanders also had the most geographic diversity in his donations, with California donors accounting for 27 percent of his donations of $200 or more. Less than 2 percent of his donations came from his home state.  Warren - the only candidate to also swear off attending big ticket fundraisers - reported that about 70 percent of the $6 million she raised in the first quarter was from small-dollar donors. Massachusetts donors accounted for 25 percent of contributions over $200. Small-dollar donations can help catapult a candidate into the spotlight. Buttigieg until recently did not have a national profile, but raised $7 million during the first quarter of 2019 - of which 64 percent came from small donations.  In a move to show they are serious about eliminating big money from politics, most Democratic presidential candidates have sworn off donations from corporate political fundraising committees. Some have nixed taking checks from registered lobbyists. The Democratic National Committee announced earlier this year that small-dollar, grassroots support will be one of the metrics it uses to determine who qualifies to participate in a series of nationally televised primary debates that will begin in June.  Senator Kamala Harris had the second-largest Democratic fundraising haul, with 37 percent of her $12 million coming from small-dollar donors.  O'Rourke reported that 59 percent of his $9.4 million was from donations of $200 or less. More than $2.1 million came from Texans who wrote checks of $200 or more. On the other end of the spectrum, John Hickenlooper, the former governor of Colorado, raised only 10 percent of his donations in $200 or smaller contributions. There was also little geographic variation among his contributors, with more than 60 percent of donations over $200 coming from his home state.  U.S. Senators Cory Booker, of New Jersey, and Kirsten Gillibrand, of New York, each raised about 16 percent of their cash from small-dollar donors.  Sanders, Warren and Buttigieg have sworn off corporate PAC money, but all raised heavily from people working in the technology industry. When looking by employer at their donors who contributed more than $200, all three raised more from Alphabet Inc Google employees than any other company. Sanders and Buttigieg raised more from people who were software developers or engineers than any other occupation. (Industry graphic: https://tmsnrt.rs/2IqC6wu)  Warren, who has called for breaking up big tech companies, also raised from employees working at Yelp. Donors to five candidates - O'Rourke, Warren, Harris, Gillibrand and Julian Castro, the former Housing chief - were more likely to be lawyers. Three candidates brought significant hauls from donors who listed their occupation as "homemaker" - Booker, Gillibrand and Gabbard.  (Reporting by Amanda Becker, Ginger Gibson and Grant Smith; Editing by Susan Thomas and Lisa Shumaker)Supported by By Shane Goldmacher Senator Kamala Harris announced Monday night that her 2020 campaign raised $12 million in her first two-plus months running for president, a sum that is expected to vault her into the top tier of financial competitors in the wide-open Democratic primary. Ms. Harris, a first-term senator from California, invested heavily building an online network of donors in the two years leading up to her launch, spending millions of dollars to increase the size of her email supporter list. Her campaign said more than $6 million of her fund-raising — about half of her total — came from her digital program, including $1.1 million in the last week. Candidates must disclose their fund-raising figures for the first quarter of 2019 by April 15, though many release them earlier in an attempt to position themselves better politically ahead of the full report. Ms. Harris’s campaign said she had received 218,000 contributions in total and that 98 percent of her contributions were under $100. Her average donation was about $55. Her campaign did not say how much of her total those small contributions accounted for. [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join the conversation around the 2020 presidential race.] “A nationwide network of hundreds of thousands of grass-roots supporters has stepped up to lay the foundation for a winning campaign,” said Juan Rodriguez, Ms. Harris’s campaign manager, in a statement. Ms. Harris has also raised money aggressively on the traditional fund-raising circuit and spent the final weekend of March dashing across California, from the Bay Area to Los Angeles, to raise as much as possible ahead of the first disclosure deadline of the 2020 race. Her campaign said only 0.55 percent of her individual donors gave the legal maximum of $2,800 — though that is still hundreds of contributors. Earlier on Monday, Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Ind., announced that he had raised more than $7 million in the first quarter. Mr. Buttigieg’s campaign said he had 158,550 donors who gave an average donation of $36.35. About 64 percent of his $7 million came from contributions of less than $200. Neither Ms. Harris nor Mr. Buttigieg disclosed how much cash on hand their campaigns currently have. On Tuesday, senior advisers to Senator Bernie Sanders, who is widely expected to post the largest fund-raising haul this month, are scheduled to release his fund-raising figures. In emails to supporters, Mr. Sanders’s campaign has said he had nearly 900,000 contributions in the first quarter, writing in one email that donations were “about a $20 average this time.” His average donation was $27 in 2016, suggesting he has raised somewhere between $18 million and $24 million. Ms. Harris recently rolled out a plan to give every teacher in America a substantial raise, and her campaign said on Monday that she has received 11,000 donations from educators.   

Supported by By Shane Goldmacher Senator Kamala Harris announced Monday night that her 2020 campaign raised $12 million in her first two-plus months running for president, a sum that is expected to vault her into the top tier of financial competitors in the wide-open Democratic primary. Ms. Harris, a first-term senator from California, invested heavily building an online network of donors in the two years leading up to her launch, spending millions of dollars to increase the size of her email supporter list. Her campaign said more than $6 million of her fund-raising — about half of her total — came from her digital program, including $1.1 million in the last week. Candidates must disclose their fund-raising figures for the first quarter of 2019 by April 15, though many release them earlier in an attempt to position themselves better politically ahead of the full report. Ms. Harris’s campaign said she had received 218,000 contributions in total and that 98 percent of her contributions were under $100. Her average donation was about $55. Her campaign did not say how much of her total those small contributions accounted for. [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join the conversation around the 2020 presidential race.] “A nationwide network of hundreds of thousands of grass-roots supporters has stepped up to lay the foundation for a winning campaign,” said Juan Rodriguez, Ms. Harris’s campaign manager, in a statement. Ms. Harris has also raised money aggressively on the traditional fund-raising circuit and spent the final weekend of March dashing across California, from the Bay Area to Los Angeles, to raise as much as possible ahead of the first disclosure deadline of the 2020 race. Her campaign said only 0.55 percent of her individual donors gave the legal maximum of $2,800 — though that is still hundreds of contributors. Earlier on Monday, Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Ind., announced that he had raised more than $7 million in the first quarter. Mr. Buttigieg’s campaign said he had 158,550 donors who gave an average donation of $36.35. About 64 percent of his $7 million came from contributions of less than $200. Neither Ms. Harris nor Mr. Buttigieg disclosed how much cash on hand their campaigns currently have. On Tuesday, senior advisers to Senator Bernie Sanders, who is widely expected to post the largest fund-raising haul this month, are scheduled to release his fund-raising figures. In emails to supporters, Mr. Sanders’s campaign has said he had nearly 900,000 contributions in the first quarter, writing in one email that donations were “about a $20 average this time.” His average donation was $27 in 2016, suggesting he has raised somewhere between $18 million and $24 million. Ms. Harris recently rolled out a plan to give every teacher in America a substantial raise, and her campaign said on Monday that she has received 11,000 donations from educators.   Supported by By Shane Goldmacher Senator Kamala Harris announced Monday night that her 2020 campaign raised $12 million in her first two-plus months running for president, a sum that is expected to vault her into the top tier of financial competitors in the wide-open Democratic primary. Ms. Harris, a first-term senator from California, invested heavily building an online network of donors in the two years leading up to her launch, spending millions of dollars to increase the size of her email supporter list. Her campaign said more than $6 million of her fund-raising — about half of her total — came from her digital program, including $1.1 million in the last week. Candidates must disclose their fund-raising figures for the first quarter of 2019 by April 15, though many release them earlier in an attempt to position themselves better politically ahead of the full report. Ms. Harris’s campaign said she had received 218,000 contributions in total and that 98 percent of her contributions were under $100. Her average donation was about $55. Her campaign did not say how much of her total those small contributions accounted for. [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join the conversation around the 2020 presidential race.] “A nationwide network of hundreds of thousands of grass-roots supporters has stepped up to lay the foundation for a winning campaign,” said Juan Rodriguez, Ms. Harris’s campaign manager, in a statement. Ms. Harris has also raised money aggressively on the traditional fund-raising circuit and spent the final weekend of March dashing across California, from the Bay Area to Los Angeles, to raise as much as possible ahead of the first disclosure deadline of the 2020 race. Her campaign said only 0.55 percent of her individual donors gave the legal maximum of $2,800 — though that is still hundreds of contributors. Earlier on Monday, Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Ind., announced that he had raised more than $7 million in the first quarter. Mr. Buttigieg’s campaign said he had 158,550 donors who gave an average donation of $36.35. About 64 percent of his $7 million came from contributions of less than $200. Neither Ms. Harris nor Mr. Buttigieg disclosed how much cash on hand their campaigns currently have. On Tuesday, senior advisers to Senator Bernie Sanders, who is widely expected to post the largest fund-raising haul this month, are scheduled to release his fund-raising figures. In emails to supporters, Mr. Sanders’s campaign has said he had nearly 900,000 contributions in the first quarter, writing in one email that donations were “about a $20 average this time.” His average donation was $27 in 2016, suggesting he has raised somewhere between $18 million and $24 million. Ms. Harris recently rolled out a plan to give every teacher in America a substantial raise, and her campaign said on Monday that she has received 11,000 donations from educators.   

Supported by By Shane Goldmacher Senator Kamala Harris announced Monday night that her 2020 campaign raised $12 million in her first two-plus months running for president, a sum that is expected to vault her into the top tier of financial competitors in the wide-open Democratic primary. Ms. Harris, a first-term senator from California, invested heavily building an online network of donors in the two years leading up to her launch, spending millions of dollars to increase the size of her email supporter list. Her campaign said more than $6 million of her fund-raising — about half of her total — came from her digital program, including $1.1 million in the last week. Candidates must disclose their fund-raising figures for the first quarter of 2019 by April 15, though many release them earlier in an attempt to position themselves better politically ahead of the full report. Ms. Harris’s campaign said she had received 218,000 contributions in total and that 98 percent of her contributions were under $100. Her average donation was about $55. Her campaign did not say how much of her total those small contributions accounted for. [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join the conversation around the 2020 presidential race.] “A nationwide network of hundreds of thousands of grass-roots supporters has stepped up to lay the foundation for a winning campaign,” said Juan Rodriguez, Ms. Harris’s campaign manager, in a statement. Ms. Harris has also raised money aggressively on the traditional fund-raising circuit and spent the final weekend of March dashing across California, from the Bay Area to Los Angeles, to raise as much as possible ahead of the first disclosure deadline of the 2020 race. Her campaign said only 0.55 percent of her individual donors gave the legal maximum of $2,800 — though that is still hundreds of contributors. Earlier on Monday, Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Ind., announced that he had raised more than $7 million in the first quarter. Mr. Buttigieg’s campaign said he had 158,550 donors who gave an average donation of $36.35. About 64 percent of his $7 million came from contributions of less than $200. Neither Ms. Harris nor Mr. Buttigieg disclosed how much cash on hand their campaigns currently have. On Tuesday, senior advisers to Senator Bernie Sanders, who is widely expected to post the largest fund-raising haul this month, are scheduled to release his fund-raising figures. In emails to supporters, Mr. Sanders’s campaign has said he had nearly 900,000 contributions in the first quarter, writing in one email that donations were “about a $20 average this time.” His average donation was $27 in 2016, suggesting he has raised somewhere between $18 million and $24 million. Ms. Harris recently rolled out a plan to give every teacher in America a substantial raise, and her campaign said on Monday that she has received 11,000 donations from educators.   Supported by Bernie Sanders is the money leader. Elizabeth Warren is spending big. Pete Buttigieg emerged out of nowhere. And (almost) everyone is buying gobs of Facebook ads. By Shane Goldmacher The Democratic challengers to President Trump raised tens of millions of dollars in the first months of the 2020 presidential campaign, with Senator Bernie Sanders setting the pace for the field, with $18.2 million raised.  As always, it is important to remember that winning the money race is not the goal itself but a means to an end: building a sustainable and effective campaign for the party nomination and, eventually, the White House. But the disclosures were the first peek at what kind of campaigns the leading Democrats are constructing, with fresh investments in digital advertising, big rallies (Senator Kamala Harris’s campaign spent about $500,000 on her splashy kickoff in Oakland), and staffing nationally and in the early states. Senator Elizabeth Warren has amassed an eye-popping staff of more than 160 — spending a higher share of what she raised than any other campaign. Whoever emerges will face a far more professionalized and better funded effort than the one that Mr. Trump led in 2016. In the first three months of the year, Mr. Trump raised more than $30 million and had more than $40 million in the bank. He and the Republican Party added another 100,000 small donors. Here are some takeaways: Ads on sites like Facebook and Google were the top expenditure for multiple campaigns. Why? In part because the nature of running for president is changing. And in part because the Democratic Party has made having 65,000 donors a gateway to the first primary debates, so campaigns are fishing for new donors online.  Mr. Sanders spent $1.5 million on digital ads. Ms. Harris spent $1 million. And Jay Inslee, the governor of Washington, plowed more than half of everything he spent into online ads: $450,000.  Beto O’Rourke, who entered the race only in mid-March, still managed to spend more than $1.25 million on digital ads. And Senator Amy Klobuchar’s biggest expense was paying a digital firm $625,000 for “list acquisition” as she pursues the 65,000-donor threshold. Mr. Sanders came out of virtually nowhere to become a fund-raising phenomenon in 2015. And in 2019, Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Ind., has burst out as the surprise darling of donors, both big and small. He raised $7 million, despite beginning his campaign as more of an asterisk in a crowded contest. The pacing of his larger donations charts his rising momentum: He raised $100,000 from people who gave more than $200 in January, $312,000 in February and $2.125 million in March, most of it after his breakout town-hall performance on CNN. Mr. Buttigieg seems to have gotten more for his money than anyone else. He spent less than $700,000, a microscopic 9.66 percent of what he raised, which is known in the political world as a campaign’s “burn rate.” It is a closely monitored figure to determine who is spending most efficiently when the first voting in the Iowa caucuses is still nearly 300 days away. So just how little did Mr. Buttigieg spend? Well, his single biggest expense — nearly $275,000 — was simply processing fees for the deluge of online donations he received. His level of spending was more common for a run-of-the-mill congressional candidate than a surging presidential hopeful and a testament to the power of earned media coverage (see: Trump, Donald) in the modern moment. Fittingly, Mr. Buttigieg spent Monday evening on MSNBC in prime time speaking with the network’s star host Rachel Maddow. As Mr. Buttigieg spent less than a dime of every dollar he raised, Ms. Warren spent nearly 87 cents of every dollar she raised. Ms. Warren, who entered the race on New Year’s Eve, raised $6 million and spent the most of any Democratic candidate in the first quarter. Her $5.2 million amounts to a big and risky bet that early investment and organizing in the states that will begin the nominating contest — Iowa, New Hampshire and South Carolina — will pay dividends next year. Ms. Warren’s report showed more than 160 people on payroll — nearly double that of Mr. Sanders, even as he raised three times as much as her. Ms. Harris, the No. 2 fund-raiser, had 44 people on staff. Ms. Warren spent nearly $1.9 million on salaries, payroll taxes and insurance in the first quarter. Ms. Warren also transferred $10.4 million from her Senate account, giving her a financial cushion. But such a transfer happens only once.  If there was any lingering doubt that Mr. Sanders — who raised $230 million in his losing 2016 bid — is the financial front-runner in the 2020 primary, the new report should lay it to rest. Mr. Sanders not only raised 50 percent more than any other candidate, but he also entered the race with the most money in other federal accounts (about $14 million) that he could spend in 2020. He had, by far, the most donors at the start of the race, and 525,000 people have already contributed to him. And he raised the largest share (about 84 percent) from those who gave less than $200, and thus can give more again and again. Ms. Harris raised the second highest amount, $12 million. And despite Mr. Sanders’s advantages, Mr. O’Rourke’s campaign touted, loudly, that he actually had out-raised Mr. Sanders in his first 24 hours as a candidate: $6.1 million to $6 million. But the new federal disclosures show that Mr. O’Rourke relied upon a bit of accounting finesse to score that headline: Nearly $300,000 of his first-day haul was actually general-election funds raised above the limit that he can spend in the primary contest. Many strategists believe the eventual nominee is going to need to appeal to both ends of the donor spectrum. Ms. Harris and Mr. O’Rourke both flashed that ability.  Ms. Harris raised $4.2 million of her total haul from donations of less than $200, after spending the last two years building a powerful email fund-raising list, and $7.6 million from larger contributions, with a donor list flecked with famous names from Hollywood (J.J. Abrams and Ben Affleck) and the business world (Eli Broad and Sam Altman). Of the nearly $9.4 million Mr. O’Rourke raised in less than three weeks, $3.8 million came from larger donors and $5.5 million came from those who gave less than $200.  The fund-raising leader board mostly mirrored those who fared best among small donors. The five candidates who raised the most money were the same five candidates who raised the most in small donations. Numerous Democrats have positioned themselves as champions of a “movement” after Mr. Sanders’s success in 2016. After his 84 percent, those with the biggest share of funds from small contributors in the first quarter were the political newcomer Andrew Yang (81 percent of his $1.7 million) and Ms. Warren (70.5 percent of her $6 million), who swore off big-money fund-raisers in a risky gamble.  At the other end of the spectrum was the former governor of Colorado, John Hickenlooper, who had the lowest (10 percent) share from small donors, followed by Senators Kirsten Gillibrand (17 percent) and Cory Booker (16 percent). Ms. Harris was the clear favorite of larger contributors — the $7.6 million she raised from those who gave at least $200 was, remarkably, nearly $3.4 million more than her closest competitor in that category, Mr. Booker. Mr. O’Rourke and Ms. Klobuchar were the only other candidates to top $3 million among such contributors. The biggest donor of the quarter was John Delaney, a former Maryland congressman who invested $11.7 million of his own money into his candidacy and has $10.5 million on hand. Firmly atop most polls, Joseph R. Biden Jr., the former vice president, has delayed joining the race so far. But if he enters the 2020 contest in the coming weeks, as expected, Mr. Biden will begin well behind financially. No fewer than nine candidates ended the first quarter with at least $6 million. Some quick and foreboding math: If Mr. Biden were to enter the race by May 1, he would have to raise roughly $100,000 every day through June 30 just to match where the ninth-best-funded candidate stood at the end of March. Rachel Shorey contributed reporting. An earlier version of this article misstated an aspect of Gov. Jay Inslee’s campaign finances. The $450,000 he spent on online advertising was more than half of his total spending, not more than half of the money he raised. Shane Goldmacher is the chief political correspondent for the Metro Desk. He previously worked at Politico, where he covered national Republican politics and the 2016 presidential campaign.  @ShaneGoldmacher 

Supported by Bernie Sanders is the money leader. Elizabeth Warren is spending big. Pete Buttigieg emerged out of nowhere. And (almost) everyone is buying gobs of Facebook ads. By Shane Goldmacher The Democratic challengers to President Trump raised tens of millions of dollars in the first months of the 2020 presidential campaign, with Senator Bernie Sanders setting the pace for the field, with $18.2 million raised.  As always, it is important to remember that winning the money race is not the goal itself but a means to an end: building a sustainable and effective campaign for the party nomination and, eventually, the White House. But the disclosures were the first peek at what kind of campaigns the leading Democrats are constructing, with fresh investments in digital advertising, big rallies (Senator Kamala Harris’s campaign spent about $500,000 on her splashy kickoff in Oakland), and staffing nationally and in the early states. Senator Elizabeth Warren has amassed an eye-popping staff of more than 160 — spending a higher share of what she raised than any other campaign. Whoever emerges will face a far more professionalized and better funded effort than the one that Mr. Trump led in 2016. In the first three months of the year, Mr. Trump raised more than $30 million and had more than $40 million in the bank. He and the Republican Party added another 100,000 small donors. Here are some takeaways: Ads on sites like Facebook and Google were the top expenditure for multiple campaigns. Why? In part because the nature of running for president is changing. And in part because the Democratic Party has made having 65,000 donors a gateway to the first primary debates, so campaigns are fishing for new donors online.  Mr. Sanders spent $1.5 million on digital ads. Ms. Harris spent $1 million. And Jay Inslee, the governor of Washington, plowed more than half of everything he spent into online ads: $450,000.  Beto O’Rourke, who entered the race only in mid-March, still managed to spend more than $1.25 million on digital ads. And Senator Amy Klobuchar’s biggest expense was paying a digital firm $625,000 for “list acquisition” as she pursues the 65,000-donor threshold. Mr. Sanders came out of virtually nowhere to become a fund-raising phenomenon in 2015. And in 2019, Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Ind., has burst out as the surprise darling of donors, both big and small. He raised $7 million, despite beginning his campaign as more of an asterisk in a crowded contest. The pacing of his larger donations charts his rising momentum: He raised $100,000 from people who gave more than $200 in January, $312,000 in February and $2.125 million in March, most of it after his breakout town-hall performance on CNN. Mr. Buttigieg seems to have gotten more for his money than anyone else. He spent less than $700,000, a microscopic 9.66 percent of what he raised, which is known in the political world as a campaign’s “burn rate.” It is a closely monitored figure to determine who is spending most efficiently when the first voting in the Iowa caucuses is still nearly 300 days away. So just how little did Mr. Buttigieg spend? Well, his single biggest expense — nearly $275,000 — was simply processing fees for the deluge of online donations he received. His level of spending was more common for a run-of-the-mill congressional candidate than a surging presidential hopeful and a testament to the power of earned media coverage (see: Trump, Donald) in the modern moment. Fittingly, Mr. Buttigieg spent Monday evening on MSNBC in prime time speaking with the network’s star host Rachel Maddow. As Mr. Buttigieg spent less than a dime of every dollar he raised, Ms. Warren spent nearly 87 cents of every dollar she raised. Ms. Warren, who entered the race on New Year’s Eve, raised $6 million and spent the most of any Democratic candidate in the first quarter. Her $5.2 million amounts to a big and risky bet that early investment and organizing in the states that will begin the nominating contest — Iowa, New Hampshire and South Carolina — will pay dividends next year. Ms. Warren’s report showed more than 160 people on payroll — nearly double that of Mr. Sanders, even as he raised three times as much as her. Ms. Harris, the No. 2 fund-raiser, had 44 people on staff. Ms. Warren spent nearly $1.9 million on salaries, payroll taxes and insurance in the first quarter. Ms. Warren also transferred $10.4 million from her Senate account, giving her a financial cushion. But such a transfer happens only once.  If there was any lingering doubt that Mr. Sanders — who raised $230 million in his losing 2016 bid — is the financial front-runner in the 2020 primary, the new report should lay it to rest. Mr. Sanders not only raised 50 percent more than any other candidate, but he also entered the race with the most money in other federal accounts (about $14 million) that he could spend in 2020. He had, by far, the most donors at the start of the race, and 525,000 people have already contributed to him. And he raised the largest share (about 84 percent) from those who gave less than $200, and thus can give more again and again. Ms. Harris raised the second highest amount, $12 million. And despite Mr. Sanders’s advantages, Mr. O’Rourke’s campaign touted, loudly, that he actually had out-raised Mr. Sanders in his first 24 hours as a candidate: $6.1 million to $6 million. But the new federal disclosures show that Mr. O’Rourke relied upon a bit of accounting finesse to score that headline: Nearly $300,000 of his first-day haul was actually general-election funds raised above the limit that he can spend in the primary contest. Many strategists believe the eventual nominee is going to need to appeal to both ends of the donor spectrum. Ms. Harris and Mr. O’Rourke both flashed that ability.  Ms. Harris raised $4.2 million of her total haul from donations of less than $200, after spending the last two years building a powerful email fund-raising list, and $7.6 million from larger contributions, with a donor list flecked with famous names from Hollywood (J.J. Abrams and Ben Affleck) and the business world (Eli Broad and Sam Altman). Of the nearly $9.4 million Mr. O’Rourke raised in less than three weeks, $3.8 million came from larger donors and $5.5 million came from those who gave less than $200.  The fund-raising leader board mostly mirrored those who fared best among small donors. The five candidates who raised the most money were the same five candidates who raised the most in small donations. Numerous Democrats have positioned themselves as champions of a “movement” after Mr. Sanders’s success in 2016. After his 84 percent, those with the biggest share of funds from small contributors in the first quarter were the political newcomer Andrew Yang (81 percent of his $1.7 million) and Ms. Warren (70.5 percent of her $6 million), who swore off big-money fund-raisers in a risky gamble.  At the other end of the spectrum was the former governor of Colorado, John Hickenlooper, who had the lowest (10 percent) share from small donors, followed by Senators Kirsten Gillibrand (17 percent) and Cory Booker (16 percent). Ms. Harris was the clear favorite of larger contributors — the $7.6 million she raised from those who gave at least $200 was, remarkably, nearly $3.4 million more than her closest competitor in that category, Mr. Booker. Mr. O’Rourke and Ms. Klobuchar were the only other candidates to top $3 million among such contributors. The biggest donor of the quarter was John Delaney, a former Maryland congressman who invested $11.7 million of his own money into his candidacy and has $10.5 million on hand. Firmly atop most polls, Joseph R. Biden Jr., the former vice president, has delayed joining the race so far. But if he enters the 2020 contest in the coming weeks, as expected, Mr. Biden will begin well behind financially. No fewer than nine candidates ended the first quarter with at least $6 million. Some quick and foreboding math: If Mr. Biden were to enter the race by May 1, he would have to raise roughly $100,000 every day through June 30 just to match where the ninth-best-funded candidate stood at the end of March. Rachel Shorey contributed reporting. An earlier version of this article misstated an aspect of Gov. Jay Inslee’s campaign finances. The $450,000 he spent on online advertising was more than half of his total spending, not more than half of the money he raised. Shane Goldmacher is the chief political correspondent for the Metro Desk. He previously worked at Politico, where he covered national Republican politics and the 2016 presidential campaign.  @ShaneGoldmacher Supported by By Shane Goldmacher, Thomas Kaplan and Rachel Shorey Some Democratic candidates for president are already spending furiously to saturate Facebook with ads as they race to qualify for the first debates this summer. Others are carefully husbanding their resources, banking cash in hopes of unloading it in a burst as the primaries near. Then there is Elizabeth Warren. Ms. Warren, the Massachusetts senator, has amassed a campaign staff of more than 160 in her first three months as a candidate, dwarfing her rivals. Her campaign is gambling that placing organizers in the early-voting primary states now, particularly in Iowa and New Hampshire, will pay dividends politically next year. Ms. Warren raised more than $6 million in the first three months of 2019, the fifth-most in the field, according to federal filings disclosed on Monday. But she churned through that money almost as fast as it arrived, pouring nearly 87 cents of every dollar raised back into spending. The filings provided the most detailed look yet into the wildly divergent ways the Democratic candidates are constructing their campaigns. The report also cleaved the crowded field into two: the financial haves and have-nots. Presidential candidates offered a long-awaited rundown of their campaign finances, an early barometer of strength and staying power in the huge Democratic field. Nine Democratic candidates entered April with at least $6 million in the bank (though some got there by transferring money from old Senate campaign accounts, and one, former Representative John Delaney of Maryland, lent millions of his own dollars). Six others had less than $2 million and one had $2.8 million. The contrasts in spending were just as stark. In the first quarter of 2019, Ms. Warren spent more on payroll taxes than Mayor Pete Buttigieg of South Bend, Ind., spent in total, other than the fees his campaign paid for processing online donations. Mr. Buttigieg, a 37-year-old newcomer to the national political scene, spent less than 10 percent of the $7 million he raised. His fund-raising total topped those of a current governor, a former governor and four United States senators. “I think I’ve gone from being viewed as, you know, adorable six weeks ago to now plausible,” Mr. Buttigieg said Tuesday on CNN. The Democratic pacesetter for fund-raising remains Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont ($18.2 million raised), trailed by Senator Kamala Harris of California ($12 million) and former Representative Beto O’Rourke of Texas ($9.4 million). [Some candidates have also released their tax returns in recent days. See how they compare.] Mr. Sanders and Ms. Harris are using their funds to hold more highly produced — and costly — events. Mr. Sanders spent $626,000 on what his campaign categorized as “event/sound/staging” expenditures. Ms. Harris spent about $500,000 on her January kickoff rally in Oakland, Calif., where she drew an estimated crowd of 20,000 that helped intensify interest in her candidacy. “The No. 1 thing for everyone is: Can you keep going?” said Jess O’Connell, a Democratic strategist and a former chief executive of the Democratic National Committee. “That is just the baseline question.” Former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. has waited on the sideline as the race has developed. But his delayed entry comes with a future financial cost: Mr. Biden would have to raise $100,000 a day for two months just to match the $6 million currently held by the ninth-best-funded candidate. Patti Solis Doyle, who served as Hillary Clinton’s campaign manager in 2008, said campaigns that burned through funds quickly, like Ms. Warren’s, needed to be sure they could continue to raise money. Senator Kirsten Gillibrand of New York also spent more than 80 cents of every dollar she raised; she collected $3 million, about half of Ms. Warren’s haul. Ms. Warren and Ms. Gillibrand both transferred huge sums ($10.4 million and $9.6 million) from their Senate accounts to jump-start their presidential bids. Ms. Solis Doyle recalled that Mrs. Clinton’s 2008 campaign had done the same. But she warned that such spending also came with risk. “The concept is to build your ship quickly, get out in front in terms of organizers and a field strategy and staff,” she said. “Now obviously the danger in that is you could be building the Titanic.” [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join the conversation around the 2020 presidential race.] Kristen Orthman, a spokeswoman for Ms. Warren, said her campaign was being “built to last.” The Warren team is continuing to hire more organizers, including in Nevada and South Carolina, even with a payroll already roughly double that of Mr. Sanders and far more than that of Ms. Harris, who has a little over 40 people on staff. “We have front-loaded a tight-knit team and set our organizational plans, priorities and culture faster and in finer detail than anyone,” Ms. Orthman said. Many candidates spent significant sums buying online ads, in part because the Democratic Party has made having 65,000 donors one of the ways to qualify for the official primary debates. The biggest expense for Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota was $625,000, paid to a digital company for “list acquisition.” Gov. Jay Inslee of Washington put more than half his spending, about $450,000, toward buying digital ads. “We started out with a lower name ID and an underdog campaign,” said Jared Leopold, a spokesman for Mr. Inslee. “We knew that we had to grow our list.” Digital ads also made up a sizable share of spending for candidates who easily topped the 65,000-donor threshold. Mr. Sanders spent $1.5 million on digital ads, Mr. O’Rourke spent $1.25 million, Ms. Harris spent $1 million and Ms. Warren spent nearly $900,000. “I’m excited that campaigns finally understand the value and return on investment” of digital advertising, said Tara McGowan, a Democratic digital strategist unaligned in the primary. “That is a long time coming.” President Trump’s campaign and his joint fund-raising committees with the Republican National Committee continued to outspend Democrats online, particularly on Facebook, where they have spent $4 million this year, ad records show. Mr. Trump continues to direct campaign spending toward businesses that he is linked to, a practice that has drawn criticism. Among his $378,000 in such spending was $215,000 for space at his Mar-a-Lago resort in March and $112,000 in rent to Trump Tower. The fund-raising reports also offer new details on the donors whom the candidates are raising money from. Mr. Sanders overwhelmingly received money from donors who gave less than $200 (84 percent of his total money raised), as did Ms. Warren (70 percent). Both have sworn off attending the kind of closed-door fund-raising events that have long been a staple of the presidential circuit. Ms. Gillibrand, Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey and former Gov. John Hickenlooper of Colorado were most dependent on larger contributors, with small donors contributing less than 20 percent of their money raised. Ms. Harris led the field with $7.6 million collected from contributions over $200, eclipsing her nearest competitor in that category by more than $3.3 million. She raised approximately $3.9 million from donors who gave her between $2,700, the maximum contribution in the last election cycle, and $2,800, the new legal limit. Mr. Buttigieg raised $2.5 million from larger donors in the first quarter. Several connected fund-raisers, including Orin Kramer, a longtime fund-raising bundler and hedge fund founder, have recently signed on to help Mr. Buttigieg. Raising money from large donors typically gets harder for all but the top-tier candidates as the campaign progresses. “The relatively easy money is in the first quarter: It’s all your family and friends,” said Tom Nides, a veteran Democratic fund-raiser and former top deputy to Mrs. Clinton at the State Department. “The second quarter is different. Now you’ve got to start convincing people in the second quarter.”  

Supported by By Shane Goldmacher, Thomas Kaplan and Rachel Shorey Some Democratic candidates for president are already spending furiously to saturate Facebook with ads as they race to qualify for the first debates this summer. Others are carefully husbanding their resources, banking cash in hopes of unloading it in a burst as the primaries near. Then there is Elizabeth Warren. Ms. Warren, the Massachusetts senator, has amassed a campaign staff of more than 160 in her first three months as a candidate, dwarfing her rivals. Her campaign is gambling that placing organizers in the early-voting primary states now, particularly in Iowa and New Hampshire, will pay dividends politically next year. Ms. Warren raised more than $6 million in the first three months of 2019, the fifth-most in the field, according to federal filings disclosed on Monday. But she churned through that money almost as fast as it arrived, pouring nearly 87 cents of every dollar raised back into spending. The filings provided the most detailed look yet into the wildly divergent ways the Democratic candidates are constructing their campaigns. The report also cleaved the crowded field into two: the financial haves and have-nots. Presidential candidates offered a long-awaited rundown of their campaign finances, an early barometer of strength and staying power in the huge Democratic field. Nine Democratic candidates entered April with at least $6 million in the bank (though some got there by transferring money from old Senate campaign accounts, and one, former Representative John Delaney of Maryland, lent millions of his own dollars). Six others had less than $2 million and one had $2.8 million. The contrasts in spending were just as stark. In the first quarter of 2019, Ms. Warren spent more on payroll taxes than Mayor Pete Buttigieg of South Bend, Ind., spent in total, other than the fees his campaign paid for processing online donations. Mr. Buttigieg, a 37-year-old newcomer to the national political scene, spent less than 10 percent of the $7 million he raised. His fund-raising total topped those of a current governor, a former governor and four United States senators. “I think I’ve gone from being viewed as, you know, adorable six weeks ago to now plausible,” Mr. Buttigieg said Tuesday on CNN. The Democratic pacesetter for fund-raising remains Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont ($18.2 million raised), trailed by Senator Kamala Harris of California ($12 million) and former Representative Beto O’Rourke of Texas ($9.4 million). [Some candidates have also released their tax returns in recent days. See how they compare.] Mr. Sanders and Ms. Harris are using their funds to hold more highly produced — and costly — events. Mr. Sanders spent $626,000 on what his campaign categorized as “event/sound/staging” expenditures. Ms. Harris spent about $500,000 on her January kickoff rally in Oakland, Calif., where she drew an estimated crowd of 20,000 that helped intensify interest in her candidacy. “The No. 1 thing for everyone is: Can you keep going?” said Jess O’Connell, a Democratic strategist and a former chief executive of the Democratic National Committee. “That is just the baseline question.” Former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. has waited on the sideline as the race has developed. But his delayed entry comes with a future financial cost: Mr. Biden would have to raise $100,000 a day for two months just to match the $6 million currently held by the ninth-best-funded candidate. Patti Solis Doyle, who served as Hillary Clinton’s campaign manager in 2008, said campaigns that burned through funds quickly, like Ms. Warren’s, needed to be sure they could continue to raise money. Senator Kirsten Gillibrand of New York also spent more than 80 cents of every dollar she raised; she collected $3 million, about half of Ms. Warren’s haul. Ms. Warren and Ms. Gillibrand both transferred huge sums ($10.4 million and $9.6 million) from their Senate accounts to jump-start their presidential bids. Ms. Solis Doyle recalled that Mrs. Clinton’s 2008 campaign had done the same. But she warned that such spending also came with risk. “The concept is to build your ship quickly, get out in front in terms of organizers and a field strategy and staff,” she said. “Now obviously the danger in that is you could be building the Titanic.” [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join the conversation around the 2020 presidential race.] Kristen Orthman, a spokeswoman for Ms. Warren, said her campaign was being “built to last.” The Warren team is continuing to hire more organizers, including in Nevada and South Carolina, even with a payroll already roughly double that of Mr. Sanders and far more than that of Ms. Harris, who has a little over 40 people on staff. “We have front-loaded a tight-knit team and set our organizational plans, priorities and culture faster and in finer detail than anyone,” Ms. Orthman said. Many candidates spent significant sums buying online ads, in part because the Democratic Party has made having 65,000 donors one of the ways to qualify for the official primary debates. The biggest expense for Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota was $625,000, paid to a digital company for “list acquisition.” Gov. Jay Inslee of Washington put more than half his spending, about $450,000, toward buying digital ads. “We started out with a lower name ID and an underdog campaign,” said Jared Leopold, a spokesman for Mr. Inslee. “We knew that we had to grow our list.” Digital ads also made up a sizable share of spending for candidates who easily topped the 65,000-donor threshold. Mr. Sanders spent $1.5 million on digital ads, Mr. O’Rourke spent $1.25 million, Ms. Harris spent $1 million and Ms. Warren spent nearly $900,000. “I’m excited that campaigns finally understand the value and return on investment” of digital advertising, said Tara McGowan, a Democratic digital strategist unaligned in the primary. “That is a long time coming.” President Trump’s campaign and his joint fund-raising committees with the Republican National Committee continued to outspend Democrats online, particularly on Facebook, where they have spent $4 million this year, ad records show. Mr. Trump continues to direct campaign spending toward businesses that he is linked to, a practice that has drawn criticism. Among his $378,000 in such spending was $215,000 for space at his Mar-a-Lago resort in March and $112,000 in rent to Trump Tower. The fund-raising reports also offer new details on the donors whom the candidates are raising money from. Mr. Sanders overwhelmingly received money from donors who gave less than $200 (84 percent of his total money raised), as did Ms. Warren (70 percent). Both have sworn off attending the kind of closed-door fund-raising events that have long been a staple of the presidential circuit. Ms. Gillibrand, Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey and former Gov. John Hickenlooper of Colorado were most dependent on larger contributors, with small donors contributing less than 20 percent of their money raised. Ms. Harris led the field with $7.6 million collected from contributions over $200, eclipsing her nearest competitor in that category by more than $3.3 million. She raised approximately $3.9 million from donors who gave her between $2,700, the maximum contribution in the last election cycle, and $2,800, the new legal limit. Mr. Buttigieg raised $2.5 million from larger donors in the first quarter. Several connected fund-raisers, including Orin Kramer, a longtime fund-raising bundler and hedge fund founder, have recently signed on to help Mr. Buttigieg. Raising money from large donors typically gets harder for all but the top-tier candidates as the campaign progresses. “The relatively easy money is in the first quarter: It’s all your family and friends,” said Tom Nides, a veteran Democratic fund-raiser and former top deputy to Mrs. Clinton at the State Department. “The second quarter is different. Now you’ve got to start convincing people in the second quarter.”  Supported by Good Monday morning. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today. _____________________ • “Americans need a narrative.” The roots of Pete Buttigieg’s campaign for president can be found in his college writings. A Times review of articles he wrote in the early 2000s found he showed a fixation with storytelling, media narratives and the power of personality in politics. • Senator Bernie Sanders, in a letter obtained by The Times, accused a liberal think tank and influential Democratic ally of “using its resources to smear” him and other contenders pushing progressive policies. • As the redacted special counsel report nears release, President Trump’s plan of attack is to act as if the report itself is extraneous to the attorney general’s brief letter, aides said, a tactic meant to enliven his base and to enrage his political rivals and the news media. • What drove Mr. Trump’s recent purge of homeland security officials? It was the culmination of months of internal clashes over immigration policies that many say were illegal, unethical or unreasonable. • Speaker Nancy Pelosi asked House officials to review security measures intended to protect Representative Ilhan Omar after Mr. Trump tweeted a video attacking the Minnesota Democrat using images of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. • Mr. Trump’s 2020 campaign raised over $30 million in the first quarter of 2019 — about what the two top-earning Democrats, Mr. Sanders and Senator Kamala Harris, raised combined. • Mr. Buttigieg officially kicked off his campaign for president on Sunday with a rally in South Bend, Ind., where he is the mayor, holding up his hometown’s revival as evidence of his political record. • Senator Cory Booker also held a hometown rally to kick off his campaign this weekend, visiting Newark, where he used to be mayor, to lay out his vision for addressing the economic and social ills of the country. • The Department of Veterans Affairs is battling a tide of veteran suicides, exacerbated by high rates of homelessness, traumatic brain injuries, post-traumatic stress and a military culture that can be resistant to seeking help. • Why run for president when you don’t really have a shot? Well, there are book deals, TV contracts and — if your side wins — maybe even a cabinet position. _____________________ Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.

Supported by Good Monday morning. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today. _____________________ • “Americans need a narrative.” The roots of Pete Buttigieg’s campaign for president can be found in his college writings. A Times review of articles he wrote in the early 2000s found he showed a fixation with storytelling, media narratives and the power of personality in politics. • Senator Bernie Sanders, in a letter obtained by The Times, accused a liberal think tank and influential Democratic ally of “using its resources to smear” him and other contenders pushing progressive policies. • As the redacted special counsel report nears release, President Trump’s plan of attack is to act as if the report itself is extraneous to the attorney general’s brief letter, aides said, a tactic meant to enliven his base and to enrage his political rivals and the news media. • What drove Mr. Trump’s recent purge of homeland security officials? It was the culmination of months of internal clashes over immigration policies that many say were illegal, unethical or unreasonable. • Speaker Nancy Pelosi asked House officials to review security measures intended to protect Representative Ilhan Omar after Mr. Trump tweeted a video attacking the Minnesota Democrat using images of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. • Mr. Trump’s 2020 campaign raised over $30 million in the first quarter of 2019 — about what the two top-earning Democrats, Mr. Sanders and Senator Kamala Harris, raised combined. • Mr. Buttigieg officially kicked off his campaign for president on Sunday with a rally in South Bend, Ind., where he is the mayor, holding up his hometown’s revival as evidence of his political record. • Senator Cory Booker also held a hometown rally to kick off his campaign this weekend, visiting Newark, where he used to be mayor, to lay out his vision for addressing the economic and social ills of the country. • The Department of Veterans Affairs is battling a tide of veteran suicides, exacerbated by high rates of homelessness, traumatic brain injuries, post-traumatic stress and a military culture that can be resistant to seeking help. • Why run for president when you don’t really have a shot? Well, there are book deals, TV contracts and — if your side wins — maybe even a cabinet position. _____________________ Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — Sen. Elizabeth Warren on Friday became the first 2020 Democratic presidential candidate to make a full-throated call for the House of Representatives to begin impeachment proceedings against President Donald Trump after the release of special counsel Robert Mueller's redacted report. Mueller, who investigated whether Trump's campaign coordinated with Russia during the 2016 election and whether the president tried to interfere with the inquiry, found no evidence of a conspiracy between Russia and the Trump campaign and made no verdict on obstruction of justice. Mueller did find, however, that Trump made numerous attempts to interfere with the investigation but was largely foiled by those around him. In a series of tweets, Warren said it would be damaging to "ignore a President's repeated efforts to obstruct an investigation into his own disloyal behavior" and would give license to future presidents to act in the same way. "The severity of this misconduct demands that elected officials in both parties set aside political considerations and do their constitutional duty. That means the House should initiate impeachment proceedings against the President of the United States," Warren, a senator from Massachusetts, tweeted. Other 2020 Democratic presidential candidates, while supportive of the idea of impeachment, were more circumspect in their responses. Former Housing and Urban Development Secretary Julian Castro said Friday on CNN that it would be "perfectly reasonable for Congress to open up those proceedings." Both Gov. Jay Inslee of Washington and Rep. Eric Swalwell of California said the question of impeachment should not be taken off the table. Other Democratic candidates, including Sens. Cory Booker of New Jersey and Kamala Harris of California, indicated it was too soon to initiate impeachment proceedings. "We don't have an unredacted version of the report. We don't have the underlying materials that that report was written upon. We haven't had yet an opportunity to have hearings where we interview Mueller," Booker said during a campaign stop in Reno, Nevada. Sen. Kamala Harris of California was asked Thursday night on MSNBC to comment on House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer's remarks that impeachment hearings against Trump would not be "worthwhile" because the 2020 election is coming up and voters can decide if they want to keep Trump in office. "I think that's there definitely a conversation to be had on that subject," Harris said, referring to impeachment, "but first I want to hear from Bob Mueller and really understand what exactly is the evidence that supports the summary that we've been given." Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Indiana, said the best recourse for Trump's actions as president would be to vote him out. "If we really want to send Trumpism into the history books, the best thing we can do is defeat it decisively at the ballot box in 2020," Buttigieg said on NBC's "Late Night with Seth Meyers." ___ Associated Press writer Scott Sonner in Reno, Nevada, contributed to this report.

Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — Sen. Elizabeth Warren on Friday became the first 2020 Democratic presidential candidate to make a full-throated call for the House of Representatives to begin impeachment proceedings against President Donald Trump after the release of special counsel Robert Mueller's redacted report. Mueller, who investigated whether Trump's campaign coordinated with Russia during the 2016 election and whether the president tried to interfere with the inquiry, found no evidence of a conspiracy between Russia and the Trump campaign and made no verdict on obstruction of justice. Mueller did find, however, that Trump made numerous attempts to interfere with the investigation but was largely foiled by those around him. In a series of tweets, Warren said it would be damaging to "ignore a President's repeated efforts to obstruct an investigation into his own disloyal behavior" and would give license to future presidents to act in the same way. "The severity of this misconduct demands that elected officials in both parties set aside political considerations and do their constitutional duty. That means the House should initiate impeachment proceedings against the President of the United States," Warren, a senator from Massachusetts, tweeted. Other 2020 Democratic presidential candidates, while supportive of the idea of impeachment, were more circumspect in their responses. Former Housing and Urban Development Secretary Julian Castro said Friday on CNN that it would be "perfectly reasonable for Congress to open up those proceedings." Both Gov. Jay Inslee of Washington and Rep. Eric Swalwell of California said the question of impeachment should not be taken off the table. Other Democratic candidates, including Sens. Cory Booker of New Jersey and Kamala Harris of California, indicated it was too soon to initiate impeachment proceedings. "We don't have an unredacted version of the report. We don't have the underlying materials that that report was written upon. We haven't had yet an opportunity to have hearings where we interview Mueller," Booker said during a campaign stop in Reno, Nevada. Sen. Kamala Harris of California was asked Thursday night on MSNBC to comment on House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer's remarks that impeachment hearings against Trump would not be "worthwhile" because the 2020 election is coming up and voters can decide if they want to keep Trump in office. "I think that's there definitely a conversation to be had on that subject," Harris said, referring to impeachment, "but first I want to hear from Bob Mueller and really understand what exactly is the evidence that supports the summary that we've been given." Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Indiana, said the best recourse for Trump's actions as president would be to vote him out. "If we really want to send Trumpism into the history books, the best thing we can do is defeat it decisively at the ballot box in 2020," Buttigieg said on NBC's "Late Night with Seth Meyers." ___ Associated Press writer Scott Sonner in Reno, Nevada, contributed to this report.Supported by By The Associated Press Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about today: 1. WHO'S CHANGING HIS TUNE ON WIKILEAKS President Donald Trump declares "I know nothing about WikiLeaks" after its founder Julian Assange was hauled out of the Ecuadorian Embassy in London to face charges, a stark contrast to how candidate Trump showered praise on the hacking organization during his 2016 presidential campaign. 2. WIKILEAKS' STATUS IN THE MEDIA WORLD COMPLEX Assange's arrest reignites a debate with no easy answer: Is the former computer hacker and founder of WikiLeaks a journalist or not? 3. INSIDE BUTTIGIEG'S 'COMPLICATED' RELATIONSHIP WITH PENCE Openly gay South Bend, Indiana, Mayor Pete Buttigieg became a celebrated voice for LGBT equality, and as a Democratic presidential contender his rhetoric toward Vice President Mike Pence has hardened. 4. HOUSE DEMOCRATS MARK FIRST 100 DAYS Democratic freshmen lawmakers are taking stock of their accomplishments, noting the stumbles and marking their place as a front line of resistance to Trump. 5. MEMORIAL SPOTLIGHTS MAN BEHIND NIPSEY HUSSLE RAP PERSONA For a decade, Nipsey Hussle released much sought-after mixtapes that he sold out of the trunk of his car, helping him create a buzz and gain respect from rap purists and his peers. 6. HOW S. KOREAN BABIES BORN DEC. 31 BECOME 2-YEAR-OLDS THE NEXT DAY South Korean babies become 1 on the day of their birth and then get an additional year tacked on when the calendar hits Jan. 1. 7. EX-OBAMA WHITE HOUSE COUNSEL CHARGED IN LOBBYING PROBE Former Obama White House counsel Greg Craig has been indicted on charges of making false statements and concealing information in a federal foreign lobbying investigation that intersected with the Russia probe. 8. TALIBAN DECLARES START OF SPRING OFFENSIVE The Taliban announced the start of their spring offensive despite talking peace with the United States. 9. ALABAMA HALTS EXECUTION OF MAN WHO KILLED PASTOR  An Alabama inmate convicted in the 1991 sword-and-dagger slaying of a pastor was spared from a scheduled lethal injection after the state was unable to lift a last-minute stay. 10. DECHAMBEAU, KOEPKA SHARE LEAD AT THE MASTERS Bryson DeChambeau and Brooks Koepka each shot a 6-under 66 in the opening round.

Supported by By The Associated Press Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about today: 1. WHO'S CHANGING HIS TUNE ON WIKILEAKS President Donald Trump declares "I know nothing about WikiLeaks" after its founder Julian Assange was hauled out of the Ecuadorian Embassy in London to face charges, a stark contrast to how candidate Trump showered praise on the hacking organization during his 2016 presidential campaign. 2. WIKILEAKS' STATUS IN THE MEDIA WORLD COMPLEX Assange's arrest reignites a debate with no easy answer: Is the former computer hacker and founder of WikiLeaks a journalist or not? 3. INSIDE BUTTIGIEG'S 'COMPLICATED' RELATIONSHIP WITH PENCE Openly gay South Bend, Indiana, Mayor Pete Buttigieg became a celebrated voice for LGBT equality, and as a Democratic presidential contender his rhetoric toward Vice President Mike Pence has hardened. 4. HOUSE DEMOCRATS MARK FIRST 100 DAYS Democratic freshmen lawmakers are taking stock of their accomplishments, noting the stumbles and marking their place as a front line of resistance to Trump. 5. MEMORIAL SPOTLIGHTS MAN BEHIND NIPSEY HUSSLE RAP PERSONA For a decade, Nipsey Hussle released much sought-after mixtapes that he sold out of the trunk of his car, helping him create a buzz and gain respect from rap purists and his peers. 6. HOW S. KOREAN BABIES BORN DEC. 31 BECOME 2-YEAR-OLDS THE NEXT DAY South Korean babies become 1 on the day of their birth and then get an additional year tacked on when the calendar hits Jan. 1. 7. EX-OBAMA WHITE HOUSE COUNSEL CHARGED IN LOBBYING PROBE Former Obama White House counsel Greg Craig has been indicted on charges of making false statements and concealing information in a federal foreign lobbying investigation that intersected with the Russia probe. 8. TALIBAN DECLARES START OF SPRING OFFENSIVE The Taliban announced the start of their spring offensive despite talking peace with the United States. 9. ALABAMA HALTS EXECUTION OF MAN WHO KILLED PASTOR  An Alabama inmate convicted in the 1991 sword-and-dagger slaying of a pastor was spared from a scheduled lethal injection after the state was unable to lift a last-minute stay. 10. DECHAMBEAU, KOEPKA SHARE LEAD AT THE MASTERS Bryson DeChambeau and Brooks Koepka each shot a 6-under 66 in the opening round.Supported by By Lisa Lerer Hi. Welcome to On Politics, your guide to the day in national politics. I’m Lisa Lerer, your host. For the first two years of his presidency, it seemed like Donald Trump could, as he famously put it during his campaign, shoot someone on Fifth Avenue and not lose his voters. Republican majorities in the House and the Senate negotiated his agenda on Capitol Hill. The majority leader, Mitch McConnell, and House Speaker Paul Ryan protected him from serious Congressional investigations, and passed a sweeping tax bill, the president’s major legislative accomplishment. G.O.P. lawmakers largely lived in fear of angering the president’s still-loyal base if they challenged him. Times have certainly changed. Mr. Trump spent the Christmas holidays complaining that he was all alone in the White House. Now, with the government in the middle of its longest-ever shutdown, his State of the Union address has been delayed indefinitely. Even his G.O.P. armor shows some tiny cracks, with a half dozen Republican senators voting on Thursday afternoon in favor of a Democratic proposal to reopen the government. So far, divided government hasn’t been a good look for Mr. Trump. And a batch of new polls released over the past few days tells a pretty unflattering story for him. • His approval rating is at an all-time low: 36 percent in a CBS News poll, 40 percent in a Politico/Morning Consult poll and 34 percent in an Associated Press-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research poll. • Perhaps, most importantly, his sales pitch on the border wall hasn’t succeeded. Only 22 percent of American voters, including 40 percent of Republicans and 15 percent of independents, consider the situation along the southern border an “emergency,” according to a Fox News poll. • Only about a third agreed that the wall would make the country safer, according to the A.P. poll. Not even a majority of Republicans supported Mr. Trump’s argument that a wall would reduce the availability of illegal drugs in the United States, the poll showed. • The CBS News poll showed that seventy-one percent of Americans, including 43 percent of Republicans, do not believe the wall is worth the federal shutdown. Two-thirds of respondents want him to agree to a budget without wall funding and 60 percent see the shutdown as causing “serious problems” for the country, according to the poll. It’s unclear whether these numbers will sway the president, who spent the morning tweeting out his case for the wall. He has a history of focusing on the polling numbers that reinforce what he wants to see and discrediting the rest as “fake news.” And while proposals float around the White House for a big deal on immigration, there are certainly some in his administration who still believe Democrats will cave on the wall. But the economic pain of the shutdown is real — and spreading. There’s a little bit of noise about a primary challenge to Mr. Trump, a rumbling that grew slightly louder last week after Gov. Larry Hogan, a Maryland Republican, used his inaugural address to raise the specter of impeachment. And while shutdowns don’t generally decide elections, Democrats see an opportunity to undermine the president’s image as a master deal maker, a key piece of his political identity, ahead of 2020. Keep in mind, this is all happening before the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller, delivers his findings on the Trump campaign’s dealings with Russia. Depending what that investigation reveals, Mr. Trump could be in for a chilly spring. ____________________ Drop us a line! We want to hear from our readers. Have a question? We’ll try to answer it. Have a comment? We’re all ears. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com. ____________________ Here at On Politics we spend a lot of time writing about the Betos, Bidens, Warrens and Sanders of the political world — the early possible stars of the 2020 Democratic primary cycle. But it takes a crowd to create a crowded field. Below those boldfaced names lurks a whole other world of presidential politics. We spoke to two men yesterday — Pete Buttigieg and former Representative John Delaney — who are definitely long shots but are hoping to have their moment on the national stage. They are probably little known beyond the world of political junkies; neither man is listed in early voting polls or has expansive lists of supporters. But both see little downside in taking their shot to become the leader of the free world. “A broad field, a wide-open field that’s a good thing for newcomers,” said Mr. Buttigieg. Wednesday was a big day for Mr. Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Ind., who announced his presidential exploratory committee at a Hyatt hotel in Washington, D.C. The location was telling: It was chosen because it would be close to the offices of political reporters and on the sidelines of a conference for American mayors. The youngest and only gay candidate in the race, Mr. Buttigieg, 37, believes his economic record in South Bend, his youth and his military service give him an edge in a crowded field. “I’m the only one who is living a middle class lifestyle in Middle America,” he told reporters. “I get the odds but I also believe we can do something that no one else can do.” Mr. Buttigieg cast his underdog status as an advantage, saying it would allow him to be bold, though he didn’t introduce any new plans during his announcement. His last moment on the national stage? A bid for the chairmanship of the Democratic National Committee in 2017 that ended with Mr. Buttigieg dropping out of the race shortly before voting. Some of the questions he fielded this time around: What makes him unique? How does he stand out in a packed race? And how do you pronounce his name? Mr. Buttigieg’s official Twitter feed offered this pronunciation: BOOT-edge-edge. His husband, Chasten Buttigieg, offered some other options. Mr. Delaney, meanwhile, has been running for president for more than 18 months, after announcing his bid in an op-ed in the summer of 2017 — almost three and half years before the election. The former Maryland congressman told On Politics that he thinks he’s gaining traction in the race, citing his 20 visits to Iowa and his six campaign offices in the state. His pitch: He can bring Americans together because he’s “someone who’s not ashamed to say I’m more moderate.” That might be a tough sell in a party that’s tilted left, both on policy and tactics, during the Trump era. Still, Mr. Delaney sees a way to win. The fact that he’s able to self-fund some of his campaign makes it easier, too. “I think I break out on the ground in Iowa,” he said. “As people start figuring out the progress we’re making in Iowa I think it becomes very clear what our path is.” ____________________ • The shutdown could prompt government service to lose its allure, causing some civil servants to worry about a brain drain of scientists, researchers and other specialists. • No one likes traffic. But could it be a public health issue?  • Vanity Fair scores the juiciest excerpt from a tell-all by a former White House aide, Cliff Sims, about his time in the Trump administration. ____________________ Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross says he doesn’t understand why furloughed federal workers don’t just take out loans against their future paychecks. _____________________ Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox. Thanks for reading. Politics is more than what goes on inside the White House. On Politics brings you the people, issues and ideas reshaping our world. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.

Supported by By Lisa Lerer Hi. Welcome to On Politics, your guide to the day in national politics. I’m Lisa Lerer, your host. For the first two years of his presidency, it seemed like Donald Trump could, as he famously put it during his campaign, shoot someone on Fifth Avenue and not lose his voters. Republican majorities in the House and the Senate negotiated his agenda on Capitol Hill. The majority leader, Mitch McConnell, and House Speaker Paul Ryan protected him from serious Congressional investigations, and passed a sweeping tax bill, the president’s major legislative accomplishment. G.O.P. lawmakers largely lived in fear of angering the president’s still-loyal base if they challenged him. Times have certainly changed. Mr. Trump spent the Christmas holidays complaining that he was all alone in the White House. Now, with the government in the middle of its longest-ever shutdown, his State of the Union address has been delayed indefinitely. Even his G.O.P. armor shows some tiny cracks, with a half dozen Republican senators voting on Thursday afternoon in favor of a Democratic proposal to reopen the government. So far, divided government hasn’t been a good look for Mr. Trump. And a batch of new polls released over the past few days tells a pretty unflattering story for him. • His approval rating is at an all-time low: 36 percent in a CBS News poll, 40 percent in a Politico/Morning Consult poll and 34 percent in an Associated Press-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research poll. • Perhaps, most importantly, his sales pitch on the border wall hasn’t succeeded. Only 22 percent of American voters, including 40 percent of Republicans and 15 percent of independents, consider the situation along the southern border an “emergency,” according to a Fox News poll. • Only about a third agreed that the wall would make the country safer, according to the A.P. poll. Not even a majority of Republicans supported Mr. Trump’s argument that a wall would reduce the availability of illegal drugs in the United States, the poll showed. • The CBS News poll showed that seventy-one percent of Americans, including 43 percent of Republicans, do not believe the wall is worth the federal shutdown. Two-thirds of respondents want him to agree to a budget without wall funding and 60 percent see the shutdown as causing “serious problems” for the country, according to the poll. It’s unclear whether these numbers will sway the president, who spent the morning tweeting out his case for the wall. He has a history of focusing on the polling numbers that reinforce what he wants to see and discrediting the rest as “fake news.” And while proposals float around the White House for a big deal on immigration, there are certainly some in his administration who still believe Democrats will cave on the wall. But the economic pain of the shutdown is real — and spreading. There’s a little bit of noise about a primary challenge to Mr. Trump, a rumbling that grew slightly louder last week after Gov. Larry Hogan, a Maryland Republican, used his inaugural address to raise the specter of impeachment. And while shutdowns don’t generally decide elections, Democrats see an opportunity to undermine the president’s image as a master deal maker, a key piece of his political identity, ahead of 2020. Keep in mind, this is all happening before the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller, delivers his findings on the Trump campaign’s dealings with Russia. Depending what that investigation reveals, Mr. Trump could be in for a chilly spring. ____________________ Drop us a line! We want to hear from our readers. Have a question? We’ll try to answer it. Have a comment? We’re all ears. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com. ____________________ Here at On Politics we spend a lot of time writing about the Betos, Bidens, Warrens and Sanders of the political world — the early possible stars of the 2020 Democratic primary cycle. But it takes a crowd to create a crowded field. Below those boldfaced names lurks a whole other world of presidential politics. We spoke to two men yesterday — Pete Buttigieg and former Representative John Delaney — who are definitely long shots but are hoping to have their moment on the national stage. They are probably little known beyond the world of political junkies; neither man is listed in early voting polls or has expansive lists of supporters. But both see little downside in taking their shot to become the leader of the free world. “A broad field, a wide-open field that’s a good thing for newcomers,” said Mr. Buttigieg. Wednesday was a big day for Mr. Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Ind., who announced his presidential exploratory committee at a Hyatt hotel in Washington, D.C. The location was telling: It was chosen because it would be close to the offices of political reporters and on the sidelines of a conference for American mayors. The youngest and only gay candidate in the race, Mr. Buttigieg, 37, believes his economic record in South Bend, his youth and his military service give him an edge in a crowded field. “I’m the only one who is living a middle class lifestyle in Middle America,” he told reporters. “I get the odds but I also believe we can do something that no one else can do.” Mr. Buttigieg cast his underdog status as an advantage, saying it would allow him to be bold, though he didn’t introduce any new plans during his announcement. His last moment on the national stage? A bid for the chairmanship of the Democratic National Committee in 2017 that ended with Mr. Buttigieg dropping out of the race shortly before voting. Some of the questions he fielded this time around: What makes him unique? How does he stand out in a packed race? And how do you pronounce his name? Mr. Buttigieg’s official Twitter feed offered this pronunciation: BOOT-edge-edge. His husband, Chasten Buttigieg, offered some other options. Mr. Delaney, meanwhile, has been running for president for more than 18 months, after announcing his bid in an op-ed in the summer of 2017 — almost three and half years before the election. The former Maryland congressman told On Politics that he thinks he’s gaining traction in the race, citing his 20 visits to Iowa and his six campaign offices in the state. His pitch: He can bring Americans together because he’s “someone who’s not ashamed to say I’m more moderate.” That might be a tough sell in a party that’s tilted left, both on policy and tactics, during the Trump era. Still, Mr. Delaney sees a way to win. The fact that he’s able to self-fund some of his campaign makes it easier, too. “I think I break out on the ground in Iowa,” he said. “As people start figuring out the progress we’re making in Iowa I think it becomes very clear what our path is.” ____________________ • The shutdown could prompt government service to lose its allure, causing some civil servants to worry about a brain drain of scientists, researchers and other specialists. • No one likes traffic. But could it be a public health issue?  • Vanity Fair scores the juiciest excerpt from a tell-all by a former White House aide, Cliff Sims, about his time in the Trump administration. ____________________ Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross says he doesn’t understand why furloughed federal workers don’t just take out loans against their future paychecks. _____________________ Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox. Thanks for reading. Politics is more than what goes on inside the White House. On Politics brings you the people, issues and ideas reshaping our world. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.Supported by By Thomas Kaplan WASHINGTON — Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota raised more than $5.2 million over the first seven weeks of her presidential bid, her campaign said on Monday, though that sum includes an undisclosed amount she could spend only in a general election campaign, not in the Democratic primary. Her total, for the first quarter of the year, puts her well short of the strongest fund-raisers in the Democratic field. Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont leads the field with a total of $18.2 million raised in the first quarter, his campaign said last week. Senator Kamala Harris of California raised $12 million, former Representative Beto O’Rourke of Texas raised $9.4 million, and Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Ind., raised more than $7 million, according to announcements from their campaigns. Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey said on Sunday that he had raised more than $5 million since the beginning of February. Another Democratic candidate, Andrew Yang, a New York businessman, said last week that he had raised more than $1.7 million in the quarter. [Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.] Ms. Klobuchar’s campaign said its average online donation was $40, and that 85 percent of all contributors gave less than $100. Not all of the money raised by Ms. Klobuchar is available to her during this phase of the presidential race. Candidates can collect a maximum of $2,800 from each individual donor for the primary and another $2,800 for the general election, but general election funds cannot be spent on expenses for the primary. Ms. Klobuchar has solicited both primary and general election donations at fund-raising events, requesting up to $5,600 per donor, meaning that some portion of what she has raised cannot currently be used. Ms. Harris, Mr. Buttigieg and Mr. Booker did not solicit general election donations in the first quarter, according to their campaigns. Mr. Sanders and Mr. O’Rourke did not hold fund-raising events in the quarter, relying on online donations, their campaigns have said. [Amy Klobuchar is “Minnesota nice.” But is that what Democrats want for 2020?] Like other presidential contenders who have run for federal office before, Ms. Klobuchar is able to make use of funds she raised as a candidate in the past — in her case, from her Senate campaign account. Her presidential campaign said that she transferred more than $3 million from her Senate campaign, and that her presidential campaign had $7 million in cash on hand at the end of the quarter. Presidential candidates must disclose their first-quarter fund-raising to the Federal Election Commission by April 15, but some campaigns reveal some information about their fund-raising before the deadline. Follow Thomas Kaplan on Twitter: @thomaskaplan.    

Supported by By Thomas Kaplan WASHINGTON — Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota raised more than $5.2 million over the first seven weeks of her presidential bid, her campaign said on Monday, though that sum includes an undisclosed amount she could spend only in a general election campaign, not in the Democratic primary. Her total, for the first quarter of the year, puts her well short of the strongest fund-raisers in the Democratic field. Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont leads the field with a total of $18.2 million raised in the first quarter, his campaign said last week. Senator Kamala Harris of California raised $12 million, former Representative Beto O’Rourke of Texas raised $9.4 million, and Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Ind., raised more than $7 million, according to announcements from their campaigns. Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey said on Sunday that he had raised more than $5 million since the beginning of February. Another Democratic candidate, Andrew Yang, a New York businessman, said last week that he had raised more than $1.7 million in the quarter. [Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.] Ms. Klobuchar’s campaign said its average online donation was $40, and that 85 percent of all contributors gave less than $100. Not all of the money raised by Ms. Klobuchar is available to her during this phase of the presidential race. Candidates can collect a maximum of $2,800 from each individual donor for the primary and another $2,800 for the general election, but general election funds cannot be spent on expenses for the primary. Ms. Klobuchar has solicited both primary and general election donations at fund-raising events, requesting up to $5,600 per donor, meaning that some portion of what she has raised cannot currently be used. Ms. Harris, Mr. Buttigieg and Mr. Booker did not solicit general election donations in the first quarter, according to their campaigns. Mr. Sanders and Mr. O’Rourke did not hold fund-raising events in the quarter, relying on online donations, their campaigns have said. [Amy Klobuchar is “Minnesota nice.” But is that what Democrats want for 2020?] Like other presidential contenders who have run for federal office before, Ms. Klobuchar is able to make use of funds she raised as a candidate in the past — in her case, from her Senate campaign account. Her presidential campaign said that she transferred more than $3 million from her Senate campaign, and that her presidential campaign had $7 million in cash on hand at the end of the quarter. Presidential candidates must disclose their first-quarter fund-raising to the Federal Election Commission by April 15, but some campaigns reveal some information about their fund-raising before the deadline. Follow Thomas Kaplan on Twitter: @thomaskaplan.    Supported by Candidates should tell us what they actually love to read, and there shouldn’t be any wrong answers. By Jennifer Weiner Contributing Opinion Writer One of my fondest memories of motherhood is of when my younger daughter, Phoebe, learned to read. It was bedtime, and her sister, her stepfather and I were settled in bed with our books. I kissed Phoebe good night and left the light on, and as I walked down the hall I heard her announce, “I am part of the reading family now!” (I felt good about my parenting, in a way I hadn’t since the incident, a few weeks previously, when, on our way to a doctor’s appointment, my other kid looked up at me with a sunny smile and announced, “Guess what I am not wearing today!”) As an author and a lifelong reader, a girl who found refuge in books, I am glad that my children are part of the reading family. Many Americans are not. According to the Pew Foundation, almost a quarter of Americans said they had not read a book in the previous 12 months. My guess is that school is to blame. Somewhere along the way, between “Beowulf” and Chaucer, people learned that reading was a slog and that literature consisted of books about characters who looked and sounded nothing like them, living in worlds that were nothing like their own. Reading was a duty and not a pleasure. And so, as soon as no one was forcing them to do it, they stopped. The list of books that most schools still consider required reading — the canon, still heavy on dead, white, male authors — doesn’t help. Nor does the way some cultural gatekeepers, many of them proudly progressive and reflexively inclusive in other parts of their lives, seem invested in keeping the ranks of readers closed. See, for example, Stephen Colbert’s recent treatment of the novels the Georgia politician Stacey Abrams wrote under the name Selena Montgomery. With salacious glee, and with a visibly uncomfortable Ms. Abrams beside him, Mr. Colbert read a sex scene from her novel “Reckless” on TV. She writes bodice rippers, was the joke, which played into layer upon layer of prejudice against women writers, women readers, women’s pleasure and women’s stories, especially when those stories are by, and about, women of color. Ha ha, sex! And also, lady-trash! “There is a long history of using romance writing and, specifically, the writing of sex scenes as a way to discredit the woman who wrote them,” Courtney Milan, a romance writer and a former law professor, told me recently. “Reckless,” which was published in 2008, is an especially challenging journey to happily ever after, given that its star-crossed African-American lovers were lawyer and the cop who pulls her over. Ms. Milan noted that the book was exceptional at the time because of its subject matter and its author’s identity. Rebekah Weatherspoon, a romance writer and the head of Women of Color in Romance, said that “Reckless” and its on-camera mockery are part of what has historically been a “problematic narrative around black women’s autonomy over our bodies, over our sexuality, however we decide to express it. It seems to be up for public consumption and judgment.” The jokes on TV were just the latest version of that judgment. “It was unnecessary in a way that hurt,” Ms. Weatherspoon said. Compare the snickers at Ms. Abrams’s writing to the response to Pete Buttigieg’s reading. Mr. Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Ind., Democratic presidential aspirant and current shiny new thing, told reporters that he learned Norwegian to read more from an author he’d discovered, whose work was not available in translation. Then he put James Joyce’s “Ulysses” at the top of 10 books he’d take to a desert island. Some people rolled their eyes at this; the literati swiftly leapt to his defense, some saying they’d rather reread Joyce than attempt a graphic novel. When a politician or other public figure is asked to list his or her favorite books, it’s never just a list. It’s an answer to the question, Who do I want people to think I am? Clearly, Mr. Buttigieg wants us to know that he is smart. “Ulysses” is a great book, a book that is firmly ensconced in the canon, but probably doesn’t end up in a lot of beach bags. I am ready to concede that Mr. Buttigieg is an outlier, a man who truly enjoys “Ulysses” and expects that other readers will dig it, but it is not a book that many people read for fun. So what does it say when progressives are putting a difficult, forbidding book, and the candidate who praises it, on a pedestal while, at the same time, we’re laughing at the books that many, many readers enjoy and using steamy, context-free snippets to take the women who write them down a peg or two? At this point you may be asking: Isn’t it better to have politicians who read hard books than a president who doesn’t read at all? And the answer is yes. Of course. Absolutely. It is appalling to me that the man in the White House seems to read absolutely nothing — not literature, not best sellers, not his security briefings, not even, if his co-authors can be believed, the books he has ostensibly written. I dearly miss President Barack Obama’s summer reading lists and the glimpse they gave us into his mind. But let’s be honest: If President Trump doesn’t like to read and can’t come up with a book to recommend, that makes him pitiable to much of literary Twitter. It also makes him totally relatable to a lot of America. If progressives really have inclusion as our goal, shame won’t help. When we laugh at Selena Montgomery’s sex scenes or take shots at “relatable” stories or “likable” heroines or dismiss mysteries or fantasies, there are readers who hear us condemning them. When we mock nonreaders or books we see as less-than, we do Mr. Trump’s work for him. As the 2020 election approaches, all the candidates should have a chance to talk about the books they love. In the best of all worlds, their answers should tell us something about how they think and who they are and whose stories and voices have shaped them. I hope the next person to answer talks about the pleasures of reading and how every book counts, that whether you love the tough classic from the canon or graphic novels or even bodice rippers, you, too, are a member of the reading family. Because progressives gain nothing — in politics or in publishing — by laughing at anyone’s books. Jennifer Weiner is the author of the forthcoming novel “Mrs. Everything” and a contributing opinion writer. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported by Candidates should tell us what they actually love to read, and there shouldn’t be any wrong answers. By Jennifer Weiner Contributing Opinion Writer One of my fondest memories of motherhood is of when my younger daughter, Phoebe, learned to read. It was bedtime, and her sister, her stepfather and I were settled in bed with our books. I kissed Phoebe good night and left the light on, and as I walked down the hall I heard her announce, “I am part of the reading family now!” (I felt good about my parenting, in a way I hadn’t since the incident, a few weeks previously, when, on our way to a doctor’s appointment, my other kid looked up at me with a sunny smile and announced, “Guess what I am not wearing today!”) As an author and a lifelong reader, a girl who found refuge in books, I am glad that my children are part of the reading family. Many Americans are not. According to the Pew Foundation, almost a quarter of Americans said they had not read a book in the previous 12 months. My guess is that school is to blame. Somewhere along the way, between “Beowulf” and Chaucer, people learned that reading was a slog and that literature consisted of books about characters who looked and sounded nothing like them, living in worlds that were nothing like their own. Reading was a duty and not a pleasure. And so, as soon as no one was forcing them to do it, they stopped. The list of books that most schools still consider required reading — the canon, still heavy on dead, white, male authors — doesn’t help. Nor does the way some cultural gatekeepers, many of them proudly progressive and reflexively inclusive in other parts of their lives, seem invested in keeping the ranks of readers closed. See, for example, Stephen Colbert’s recent treatment of the novels the Georgia politician Stacey Abrams wrote under the name Selena Montgomery. With salacious glee, and with a visibly uncomfortable Ms. Abrams beside him, Mr. Colbert read a sex scene from her novel “Reckless” on TV. She writes bodice rippers, was the joke, which played into layer upon layer of prejudice against women writers, women readers, women’s pleasure and women’s stories, especially when those stories are by, and about, women of color. Ha ha, sex! And also, lady-trash! “There is a long history of using romance writing and, specifically, the writing of sex scenes as a way to discredit the woman who wrote them,” Courtney Milan, a romance writer and a former law professor, told me recently. “Reckless,” which was published in 2008, is an especially challenging journey to happily ever after, given that its star-crossed African-American lovers were lawyer and the cop who pulls her over. Ms. Milan noted that the book was exceptional at the time because of its subject matter and its author’s identity. Rebekah Weatherspoon, a romance writer and the head of Women of Color in Romance, said that “Reckless” and its on-camera mockery are part of what has historically been a “problematic narrative around black women’s autonomy over our bodies, over our sexuality, however we decide to express it. It seems to be up for public consumption and judgment.” The jokes on TV were just the latest version of that judgment. “It was unnecessary in a way that hurt,” Ms. Weatherspoon said. Compare the snickers at Ms. Abrams’s writing to the response to Pete Buttigieg’s reading. Mr. Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Ind., Democratic presidential aspirant and current shiny new thing, told reporters that he learned Norwegian to read more from an author he’d discovered, whose work was not available in translation. Then he put James Joyce’s “Ulysses” at the top of 10 books he’d take to a desert island. Some people rolled their eyes at this; the literati swiftly leapt to his defense, some saying they’d rather reread Joyce than attempt a graphic novel. When a politician or other public figure is asked to list his or her favorite books, it’s never just a list. It’s an answer to the question, Who do I want people to think I am? Clearly, Mr. Buttigieg wants us to know that he is smart. “Ulysses” is a great book, a book that is firmly ensconced in the canon, but probably doesn’t end up in a lot of beach bags. I am ready to concede that Mr. Buttigieg is an outlier, a man who truly enjoys “Ulysses” and expects that other readers will dig it, but it is not a book that many people read for fun. So what does it say when progressives are putting a difficult, forbidding book, and the candidate who praises it, on a pedestal while, at the same time, we’re laughing at the books that many, many readers enjoy and using steamy, context-free snippets to take the women who write them down a peg or two? At this point you may be asking: Isn’t it better to have politicians who read hard books than a president who doesn’t read at all? And the answer is yes. Of course. Absolutely. It is appalling to me that the man in the White House seems to read absolutely nothing — not literature, not best sellers, not his security briefings, not even, if his co-authors can be believed, the books he has ostensibly written. I dearly miss President Barack Obama’s summer reading lists and the glimpse they gave us into his mind. But let’s be honest: If President Trump doesn’t like to read and can’t come up with a book to recommend, that makes him pitiable to much of literary Twitter. It also makes him totally relatable to a lot of America. If progressives really have inclusion as our goal, shame won’t help. When we laugh at Selena Montgomery’s sex scenes or take shots at “relatable” stories or “likable” heroines or dismiss mysteries or fantasies, there are readers who hear us condemning them. When we mock nonreaders or books we see as less-than, we do Mr. Trump’s work for him. As the 2020 election approaches, all the candidates should have a chance to talk about the books they love. In the best of all worlds, their answers should tell us something about how they think and who they are and whose stories and voices have shaped them. I hope the next person to answer talks about the pleasures of reading and how every book counts, that whether you love the tough classic from the canon or graphic novels or even bodice rippers, you, too, are a member of the reading family. Because progressives gain nothing — in politics or in publishing — by laughing at anyone’s books. Jennifer Weiner is the author of the forthcoming novel “Mrs. Everything” and a contributing opinion writer. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Supported by By The Associated Press MINNEAPOLIS — Democratic presidential candidate Amy Klobuchar says she raised $5.2 million in seven weeks after announcing her 2020 bid. The Minnesota senator said Monday she ended the first quarter with $7 million cash on hand. That includes more than $3 million from her 2018 Senate campaign. Klobuchar had a small fundraising edge over New Jersey Sen. Cory Booker, who said he raised over $5 million in the two months after entering the 2020 primary. Their first-quarter numbers were dwarfed by some other candidates. Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders says he raised more than $18 million, while California Sen. Kamala Harris brought in $12 million. Mayor Pete Buttigieg (BOO'-tuh-juhj) says he raised over $7 million. Klobuchar says her average online contribution was $40 and 85% of donors gave less than $100.

Supported by By The Associated Press MINNEAPOLIS — Democratic presidential candidate Amy Klobuchar says she raised $5.2 million in seven weeks after announcing her 2020 bid. The Minnesota senator said Monday she ended the first quarter with $7 million cash on hand. That includes more than $3 million from her 2018 Senate campaign. Klobuchar had a small fundraising edge over New Jersey Sen. Cory Booker, who said he raised over $5 million in the two months after entering the 2020 primary. Their first-quarter numbers were dwarfed by some other candidates. Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders says he raised more than $18 million, while California Sen. Kamala Harris brought in $12 million. Mayor Pete Buttigieg (BOO'-tuh-juhj) says he raised over $7 million. Klobuchar says her average online contribution was $40 and 85% of donors gave less than $100.Supported by It could be worse than campaigning by verse. By Gail Collins Opinion Columnist This article has been updated to reflect news developments. We now have so many potential candidates for president it’s very difficult to talk about them without whipping out a chart. But come on, I know you can do it. This week Michael Bloomberg took his name off the list, so we’ve hardly got two dozen. Very sorry to see Bloomberg go. His departure came just after Fortune announced he was ranked the ninth-richest billionaire on the planet, which is 706 places higher than Donald Trump. It would have been fun pointing that out several times a day for the entire campaign. But if you’ve got over $55 billion there are probably more fun things to do over the next year than introducing yourself to every person in Iowa. So let’s see if we can master what’s left of the list. Today we’ll take it easy and consider only the 14 who have actually announced they’re running for the nomination. We will then instantly subtract the spiritual lecturer, the former tech executive and the guy-who-was-once-in-the-House. Great! We’re down to 11. That includes two newbies, John Hickenlooper, the former governor of Colorado, and Jay Inslee, the governor of Washington. Both of them announced they were running with a lot of focus on the environment — The Times’s Kirk Johnson counted 10 mentions of climate change in Inslee’s 80-second video. People, how do you feel about this? A) Climate change is crucial, and you cannot bring it up too much. B) Climate change is super important, but a little variety is nice. C) Excuse me, who is Jay Inslee again? Maybe this little presidential-candidates rhyme will help: Two governors from the West are superInslee’s the one who’s not named Hickenlooper. Six senators, too, in the presidential packBernie and Elizabeth we know from way back.Kirsten, Cory and Kamala are hard at workAmy’s the one who used her comb for a fork. Let’s pull more hints out of the scabbardFor Hawaii Representative Tulsi GabbardJulian Castro is no dudEven though his best job was secretary of HUD. We will now quit rhyming before we get to South Bend, Ind., Mayor Pete Buttigieg. No one agrees entirely on how to pronounce his name, but one of the versions the candidate seems to like is “boot-edge-edge.” In Maltese it means “lord of the poultry.” See how much you’re learning? Wait till you throw that one out at a dinner party. Buttigieg is the youngest candidate, at 37, and he’d be the first commander in chief under the age of 40. Buttigieg has been pushing the age issue, arguing that millennials are due for some “intergenerational justice.” It’s getting a lot of traction — do you think Donald Trump (72) has spawned a don’t-trust-anybody-over-70 movement? If so, it’d be a problem for Bernie Sanders (77) and the still-unannounced Joe Biden (76). Next you’ve got Hickenlooper, 67, and Inslee, 68, as well as Elizabeth Warren, 69. Historically, being a presidential candidate in your 60s has only been a problem for one gender. When Senator Margaret Chase Smith ran for the Republican nomination in 1964, she complained that “almost every news story starts off with ‘the 66-year-old senator.’ I declare I haven’t seen the age played up in the case of men candidates.” The Los Angeles Times reported her comments in a story headlined “66-Year-Old Sen. Smith Hits Age Talk.” Also an L.A. Times columnist argued that age was indeed an issue because the ideal age for a presidential candidate was in the late 40s or 50s, and that was when “the female of the species undergoes physical changes and emotional distress of varying severity and duration.” O.K., this is the end of our age discussion. Except — wait! What about Hillary Clinton? She’s 71 now, and she hasn’t absolutely totally completely ruled out running again. For everybody else, time is fleeting. We’re talking about a Democratic nominating convention that’s happening in July 2020, but there seems to be a consensus that even waiting for Easter of 2019 is very chancy. Beto O’Rourke has been promising to make an announcement any second, but the most dramatic thing he’s done lately was to show up for a Metallica concert. It is possible to be too cool to rule. Almost everybody seems to think Biden will jump in eventually. But really, Mr. Former Vice President, it’s possible to be too coy. This week a CNN focus group made up of six people said they thought you were too old-news. If you can’t win over a six-person focus group, what will you do in Hart’s Location, N.H.? It’s already March. Time to get into the rhyme. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Gail Collins is an Op-Ed columnist and a former member of the editorial board, and was the first woman to serve as the Times editorial page editor, from 2001 to 2007.  @GailCollins • Facebook 

Supported by It could be worse than campaigning by verse. By Gail Collins Opinion Columnist This article has been updated to reflect news developments. We now have so many potential candidates for president it’s very difficult to talk about them without whipping out a chart. But come on, I know you can do it. This week Michael Bloomberg took his name off the list, so we’ve hardly got two dozen. Very sorry to see Bloomberg go. His departure came just after Fortune announced he was ranked the ninth-richest billionaire on the planet, which is 706 places higher than Donald Trump. It would have been fun pointing that out several times a day for the entire campaign. But if you’ve got over $55 billion there are probably more fun things to do over the next year than introducing yourself to every person in Iowa. So let’s see if we can master what’s left of the list. Today we’ll take it easy and consider only the 14 who have actually announced they’re running for the nomination. We will then instantly subtract the spiritual lecturer, the former tech executive and the guy-who-was-once-in-the-House. Great! We’re down to 11. That includes two newbies, John Hickenlooper, the former governor of Colorado, and Jay Inslee, the governor of Washington. Both of them announced they were running with a lot of focus on the environment — The Times’s Kirk Johnson counted 10 mentions of climate change in Inslee’s 80-second video. People, how do you feel about this? A) Climate change is crucial, and you cannot bring it up too much. B) Climate change is super important, but a little variety is nice. C) Excuse me, who is Jay Inslee again? Maybe this little presidential-candidates rhyme will help: Two governors from the West are superInslee’s the one who’s not named Hickenlooper. Six senators, too, in the presidential packBernie and Elizabeth we know from way back.Kirsten, Cory and Kamala are hard at workAmy’s the one who used her comb for a fork. Let’s pull more hints out of the scabbardFor Hawaii Representative Tulsi GabbardJulian Castro is no dudEven though his best job was secretary of HUD. We will now quit rhyming before we get to South Bend, Ind., Mayor Pete Buttigieg. No one agrees entirely on how to pronounce his name, but one of the versions the candidate seems to like is “boot-edge-edge.” In Maltese it means “lord of the poultry.” See how much you’re learning? Wait till you throw that one out at a dinner party. Buttigieg is the youngest candidate, at 37, and he’d be the first commander in chief under the age of 40. Buttigieg has been pushing the age issue, arguing that millennials are due for some “intergenerational justice.” It’s getting a lot of traction — do you think Donald Trump (72) has spawned a don’t-trust-anybody-over-70 movement? If so, it’d be a problem for Bernie Sanders (77) and the still-unannounced Joe Biden (76). Next you’ve got Hickenlooper, 67, and Inslee, 68, as well as Elizabeth Warren, 69. Historically, being a presidential candidate in your 60s has only been a problem for one gender. When Senator Margaret Chase Smith ran for the Republican nomination in 1964, she complained that “almost every news story starts off with ‘the 66-year-old senator.’ I declare I haven’t seen the age played up in the case of men candidates.” The Los Angeles Times reported her comments in a story headlined “66-Year-Old Sen. Smith Hits Age Talk.” Also an L.A. Times columnist argued that age was indeed an issue because the ideal age for a presidential candidate was in the late 40s or 50s, and that was when “the female of the species undergoes physical changes and emotional distress of varying severity and duration.” O.K., this is the end of our age discussion. Except — wait! What about Hillary Clinton? She’s 71 now, and she hasn’t absolutely totally completely ruled out running again. For everybody else, time is fleeting. We’re talking about a Democratic nominating convention that’s happening in July 2020, but there seems to be a consensus that even waiting for Easter of 2019 is very chancy. Beto O’Rourke has been promising to make an announcement any second, but the most dramatic thing he’s done lately was to show up for a Metallica concert. It is possible to be too cool to rule. Almost everybody seems to think Biden will jump in eventually. But really, Mr. Former Vice President, it’s possible to be too coy. This week a CNN focus group made up of six people said they thought you were too old-news. If you can’t win over a six-person focus group, what will you do in Hart’s Location, N.H.? It’s already March. Time to get into the rhyme. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Gail Collins is an Op-Ed columnist and a former member of the editorial board, and was the first woman to serve as the Times editorial page editor, from 2001 to 2007.  @GailCollins • Facebook Supported by By Anemona Hartocollis Workers were making repairs to the roof of Notre Dame on a fine April day. A fire broke out, too high to be quickly doused with water, and onlookers could only stare in disbelief as the building was consumed by flames. That scene played out 140 years ago, at the University of Notre Dame, the Indiana school famous for its Fighting Irish football team. By the time the fire was out, the campus’s main building was ruined. And then on Monday, across the Atlantic at the Notre-Dame cathedral in Paris, an intense fire felled the spire and tore apart the roof of a building known for its stone gargoyles, flying buttresses and the legend of the hunchbacked Quasimodo. [Here’s what we do and don’t know about the fire at the Notre-Dame cathedral.] “Notre Dame is burning! Notre Dame is burning!” students said as Krupali Uplekar Krusche, an architecture and historic preservation professor at the University of Notre Dame, arrived in her studio on Monday afternoon. “I was like, ‘What? What happened? Where?’” she recalled a day later. “I was under the impression that it happened at the university.” So were many others. As people around the world watched images of the fire in horror, the University of Notre Dame received about 5,000 tweets, reposts or questions about whether the fire was at the school, or whether there was a connection between the university and the cathedral, Dennis Brown, a spokesman for the university, said on Tuesday. Anxious to douse any misapprehension, the university took to Twitter: “A clarification: A fire is currently burning at @notredameparis, not the University of Notre Dame.” “So yeah, there was a little bit of confusion,” Mr. Brown said. “That’s why we issued a tweet yesterday afternoon, to clarify that we were safe, but that our prayers were with those who had been impacted in Paris.” Imagery shows how the fire tore through the cathedral’s wooden roof and toppled its 300-foot spire. Dr. Krusche said the cathedral had strong sentimental value for her students, because they had stood inside it and studied it as part of an annual field trip to Paris just a year ago. A new crop of students is scheduled to visit Paris in a week. “Unfortunately, it will not be the same trip,” she said. In a statement of solidarity with the people of France, the university’s president, the Rev. John I. Jenkins, noted that the Notre Dame campus, near South Bend, Ind., had been destroyed by fire on April 23, 1879. In that episode, workers had also been on the roof of the college, making repairs. But they left before the fire was noticed and buckets of water could not be carried up six stories to the roof fast enough to contain the fire. (Investigators in Paris were also looking at the possibility that restoration work had accidentally sparked the cathedral fire.) Father Jenkins said the university would donate $100,000 toward the cathedral’s restoration, and would toll the bells of its basilica 50 times on Tuesday evening, like a number of other churches around the world, to honor the cathedral. [A crowdfunding campaign for three fire-ravaged black churches in Louisiana received more than $850,000 after it was widely shared on social media following the Notre-Dame cathedral blaze.] In fact, the university is not affiliated with the church in Paris, formally known as Notre Dame de Paris. The school’s full name is the University of Notre Dame du Lac, the University of Our Lady of the Lake. It was given that name by its founder, Father Edward Sorin, a French priest, because it is near two lakes. Also, the two names are also pronounced differently: It’s “Noter Daym” in Indiana, and more like “Notruh Dahm” in France. Perhaps adding to the confusion on Monday, the mayor of South Bend, Pete Buttigieg, offered his condolences to a French-language news channel on Monday, in French. “To the people of France, I would like to say that Notre Dame Cathedral was like a gift to the human race,” said Mr. Buttigieg, who is running for the Democratic nomination for president. “We share in the pain but we also thank you for this gift to civilization.” Julie Turkewitz contributed reporting.  

Supported by By Anemona Hartocollis Workers were making repairs to the roof of Notre Dame on a fine April day. A fire broke out, too high to be quickly doused with water, and onlookers could only stare in disbelief as the building was consumed by flames. That scene played out 140 years ago, at the University of Notre Dame, the Indiana school famous for its Fighting Irish football team. By the time the fire was out, the campus’s main building was ruined. And then on Monday, across the Atlantic at the Notre-Dame cathedral in Paris, an intense fire felled the spire and tore apart the roof of a building known for its stone gargoyles, flying buttresses and the legend of the hunchbacked Quasimodo. [Here’s what we do and don’t know about the fire at the Notre-Dame cathedral.] “Notre Dame is burning! Notre Dame is burning!” students said as Krupali Uplekar Krusche, an architecture and historic preservation professor at the University of Notre Dame, arrived in her studio on Monday afternoon. “I was like, ‘What? What happened? Where?’” she recalled a day later. “I was under the impression that it happened at the university.” So were many others. As people around the world watched images of the fire in horror, the University of Notre Dame received about 5,000 tweets, reposts or questions about whether the fire was at the school, or whether there was a connection between the university and the cathedral, Dennis Brown, a spokesman for the university, said on Tuesday. Anxious to douse any misapprehension, the university took to Twitter: “A clarification: A fire is currently burning at @notredameparis, not the University of Notre Dame.” “So yeah, there was a little bit of confusion,” Mr. Brown said. “That’s why we issued a tweet yesterday afternoon, to clarify that we were safe, but that our prayers were with those who had been impacted in Paris.” Imagery shows how the fire tore through the cathedral’s wooden roof and toppled its 300-foot spire. Dr. Krusche said the cathedral had strong sentimental value for her students, because they had stood inside it and studied it as part of an annual field trip to Paris just a year ago. A new crop of students is scheduled to visit Paris in a week. “Unfortunately, it will not be the same trip,” she said. In a statement of solidarity with the people of France, the university’s president, the Rev. John I. Jenkins, noted that the Notre Dame campus, near South Bend, Ind., had been destroyed by fire on April 23, 1879. In that episode, workers had also been on the roof of the college, making repairs. But they left before the fire was noticed and buckets of water could not be carried up six stories to the roof fast enough to contain the fire. (Investigators in Paris were also looking at the possibility that restoration work had accidentally sparked the cathedral fire.) Father Jenkins said the university would donate $100,000 toward the cathedral’s restoration, and would toll the bells of its basilica 50 times on Tuesday evening, like a number of other churches around the world, to honor the cathedral. [A crowdfunding campaign for three fire-ravaged black churches in Louisiana received more than $850,000 after it was widely shared on social media following the Notre-Dame cathedral blaze.] In fact, the university is not affiliated with the church in Paris, formally known as Notre Dame de Paris. The school’s full name is the University of Notre Dame du Lac, the University of Our Lady of the Lake. It was given that name by its founder, Father Edward Sorin, a French priest, because it is near two lakes. Also, the two names are also pronounced differently: It’s “Noter Daym” in Indiana, and more like “Notruh Dahm” in France. Perhaps adding to the confusion on Monday, the mayor of South Bend, Pete Buttigieg, offered his condolences to a French-language news channel on Monday, in French. “To the people of France, I would like to say that Notre Dame Cathedral was like a gift to the human race,” said Mr. Buttigieg, who is running for the Democratic nomination for president. “We share in the pain but we also thank you for this gift to civilization.” Julie Turkewitz contributed reporting.  Supported by By Michael M. Grynbaum and Sydney Ember There is an unlikely new hot spot for Democratic candidates: Fox News. President Trump’s favorite network is increasingly playing host to hopefuls from the Democratic presidential field, eager for exposure to the vast Fox News audience — even as they risk a backlash from others in the party who view the network as an ideological menace. The expedition into what many liberals consider enemy territory picked up this week after Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont appeared at a town hall on the network, drawing the biggest television audience of any 2020 Democratic candidate so far — more than 2.5 million people — while pitching himself to Trump-leaning viewers who may be willing to cross party lines next year. On Wednesday, Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota said she had agreed to a Fox News town hall-style event next month. Mayor Pete Buttigieg of South Bend, Ind., is in advanced talks with the network. Julián Castro, the former housing secretary, is close to signing on, and Senators Kirsten Gillibrand of New York and Cory Booker of New Jersey say they are open to the idea. The debate over whether to appear on Fox News reflects in some ways a larger divide in the party as it ponders how to retake the White House: Should Democrats focus on expanding and mobilizing the various coalitions that make up their base, or seek inroads with the millions of Americans who supported Mr. Trump in 2016? For Mr. Buttigieg’s ascendant campaign, the answer, in a saturated media age, was easy. “We are going to talk to voters everywhere and we are going to meet them where they are,” said Lis Smith, who oversees media strategy for Mr. Buttigieg, who in March became the first 2020 Democratic candidate to sit for an interview with Chris Wallace on “Fox News Sunday.” “The outdated approach of taking a calculated and risk-averse approach to the media needs to be put in the past.” “Voters are going to reward fearlessness,” Ms. Smith added, “even if that comes with a mistake here or there.” [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] Fox News town halls are moderated by news anchors like Bret Baier, not the network’s hard-right commentators. But the fealty that pundits like Sean Hannity show to Mr. Trump have many establishment Democrats apprehensive. Last month, the Democratic National Committee took the unusual step of barring Fox News from sponsoring any of its presidential primary debates, saying its “inappropriate relationship” with the administration made it unfit to stage a fair event. Critics say that Democrats who go on the network lend credibility to a platform that many liberal voters view as xenophobic, toxic and an incorrigible mouthpiece for the president. “I understand the short-term incentives for Bernie Sanders and Pete Buttigieg to appear on Fox News, but putting an imprimatur of legitimacy on one of the most destructive forces in American politics has long-term consequences,” Dan Pfeiffer, a former senior adviser to President Barack Obama and a host of the liberal podcast “Pod Save America,” wrote on Twitter on Tuesday. (Ms. Smith fired back, noting on Twitter that Mr. Obama had sat for interviews with the former Fox News star Bill O’Reilly.) Even Mr. Trump seemed mystified to see Mr. Sanders, one of his sharpest critics, granted Fox News airtime to call the president a “pathological liar,” among other epithets. “So weird to watch Crazy Bernie on @FoxNews,” Mr. Trump tweeted on Tuesday, as a loyal viewer displeased by an unexpected story arc. “What’s with @FoxNews?” the president wrote. Mr. Trump has been complaining about Fox News for many months. But the campaign’s strategy is to depict Democrats as too extreme for the country, and it fears that candidates will seem more presentable if Fox News introduces them in a friendly way. Mr. Trump and some of his advisers are also irked that Fox News is showcasing not just Mr. Sanders, but a moderate like Ms. Klobuchar of Minnesota, a Midwest state where the Trump campaign is looking to make headway, according to people familiar with their thinking. [Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.] Mr. Sanders received generally positive reviews for his appearance on Fox News, but other Democrats remain wary. Senator Kamala Harris of California, in an interview on “Pod Save America” on Wednesday, said she would “think about” appearing on Fox News, although she declined to commit. “I’m not excluding anyone in terms of trying to earn their vote and compete for their vote,” she said. “There’s a whole other conversation to be had about how Fox News does their work and the bias with which they do it.” Mr. Castro’s campaign, in its talks with the network, had questions about who the audience would be and whether the event would be conducted in a nonpartisan manner, according to Jennifer Fiore, a senior adviser. But it was satisfied with the responses it received, including that the audience would be made up of independents and Democrats. The appearance has not been scheduled, but the two sides appear close to setting a date. Mr. Castro “has always campaigned for every vote, Democrat and Republican,” Ms. Fiore said, noting that he had served as a mayor in a red state. Some Democratic strategists pointed out that an appearance on Fox News grants access to the top-rated cable news channel — the network routinely beats its rivals CNN and MSNBC in overall ratings — along with the favorable optics of wading into the lion’s den, essentially signaling to voters that a candidate is unafraid to engage with a challenging moderator and a potentially skeptical audience. Others note that in last year’s midterm elections, Democrats were able to wrest four Midwestern governorships from Republicans, including three in states Mr. Trump captured in 2016 — showing the value of trying to win back voters in that region who might be disenchanted with the president. “It’s just a smart place to be,” said Tad Devine, Mr. Sanders’s longtime strategist, who is not working for his campaign this year. “In politics, the downsides are inevitable. You have to weigh them against the upsides. And the upside is you get to talk to millions of people.” And maybe rally the faithful, too. After Mr. Sanders’s appearance Monday, he blasted out a fund-raising appeal about it to his supporters, embedding a Fox News clip in which audience members cheered his “Medicare for all” plans. “Last night Bernie showed why he is the best candidate to beat Trump,” the email declared. Other Democrats argue that the Fox News audience is unnecessary, pointing to the excitement surrounding candidates like former Representative Beto O’Rourke, whose unapologetically liberal run for the Senate in Texas last year galvanized voters and donors, pushing him to within three points of victory. Then there is a broader concern that the symbiosis between Fox News stars and the Trump administration means the network will not treat Democrats fairly. On Monday, hours before Mr. Sanders went on the network, the chairman of the D.N.C. told a Fox News interviewer that he had no plans to reconsider his decision to bar the network from sponsoring an official party debate. “I don’t have faith in your leadership at Fox News at the senior levels,” the chairman, Tom Perez, told the anchor Bill Hemmer. Mr. Hemmer, who works on the reporting side of the network, pushed back, comparing Fox News’s opinion programming to that of a newspaper’s editorial page. “We’ll give you a fair shake,” he said. That argument has been echoed by Fox News executives, who say that the Democrats’ debate decision was shortsighted and that the network’s reporters serve as neutral journalists. Mr. Wallace won praise in 2016 for his moderating of the third presidential debate. Fox News declined to comment for this article. Lesser-known candidates like Andrew Yang, a former tech executive, and Representative Tulsi Gabbard of Hawaii have made appearances in shorter segments on the network. But Mr. Sanders is currently a front-runner in the Democratic race, and his extended appearance Monday represented a bigger leap. The audience on Monday was significantly larger than the 1.95 million who watched Ms. Harris on CNN in January, the previous benchmark for televised town halls. Mr. Sanders attracted more viewers between the ages of 25 and 54, the key demographic in cable news, than the same night’s broadcast of Rachel Maddow, who is MSNBC’s top-rated star. Still, some candidates remain on the fence. And others seem ready to dodge the subject completely.  Asked on Tuesday if she would participate in a Fox News town hall, Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts told a reporter to speak to her communications director. “She’s the one figuring out where we’re going to go and who we’re talking to,” Ms. Warren said. Contacted on Wednesday, the communications director, Kristen Orthman, declined to comment. Maggie Haberman and Nick Corasaniti contributed reporting.   

Supported by By Michael M. Grynbaum and Sydney Ember There is an unlikely new hot spot for Democratic candidates: Fox News. President Trump’s favorite network is increasingly playing host to hopefuls from the Democratic presidential field, eager for exposure to the vast Fox News audience — even as they risk a backlash from others in the party who view the network as an ideological menace. The expedition into what many liberals consider enemy territory picked up this week after Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont appeared at a town hall on the network, drawing the biggest television audience of any 2020 Democratic candidate so far — more than 2.5 million people — while pitching himself to Trump-leaning viewers who may be willing to cross party lines next year. On Wednesday, Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota said she had agreed to a Fox News town hall-style event next month. Mayor Pete Buttigieg of South Bend, Ind., is in advanced talks with the network. Julián Castro, the former housing secretary, is close to signing on, and Senators Kirsten Gillibrand of New York and Cory Booker of New Jersey say they are open to the idea. The debate over whether to appear on Fox News reflects in some ways a larger divide in the party as it ponders how to retake the White House: Should Democrats focus on expanding and mobilizing the various coalitions that make up their base, or seek inroads with the millions of Americans who supported Mr. Trump in 2016? For Mr. Buttigieg’s ascendant campaign, the answer, in a saturated media age, was easy. “We are going to talk to voters everywhere and we are going to meet them where they are,” said Lis Smith, who oversees media strategy for Mr. Buttigieg, who in March became the first 2020 Democratic candidate to sit for an interview with Chris Wallace on “Fox News Sunday.” “The outdated approach of taking a calculated and risk-averse approach to the media needs to be put in the past.” “Voters are going to reward fearlessness,” Ms. Smith added, “even if that comes with a mistake here or there.” [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] Fox News town halls are moderated by news anchors like Bret Baier, not the network’s hard-right commentators. But the fealty that pundits like Sean Hannity show to Mr. Trump have many establishment Democrats apprehensive. Last month, the Democratic National Committee took the unusual step of barring Fox News from sponsoring any of its presidential primary debates, saying its “inappropriate relationship” with the administration made it unfit to stage a fair event. Critics say that Democrats who go on the network lend credibility to a platform that many liberal voters view as xenophobic, toxic and an incorrigible mouthpiece for the president. “I understand the short-term incentives for Bernie Sanders and Pete Buttigieg to appear on Fox News, but putting an imprimatur of legitimacy on one of the most destructive forces in American politics has long-term consequences,” Dan Pfeiffer, a former senior adviser to President Barack Obama and a host of the liberal podcast “Pod Save America,” wrote on Twitter on Tuesday. (Ms. Smith fired back, noting on Twitter that Mr. Obama had sat for interviews with the former Fox News star Bill O’Reilly.) Even Mr. Trump seemed mystified to see Mr. Sanders, one of his sharpest critics, granted Fox News airtime to call the president a “pathological liar,” among other epithets. “So weird to watch Crazy Bernie on @FoxNews,” Mr. Trump tweeted on Tuesday, as a loyal viewer displeased by an unexpected story arc. “What’s with @FoxNews?” the president wrote. Mr. Trump has been complaining about Fox News for many months. But the campaign’s strategy is to depict Democrats as too extreme for the country, and it fears that candidates will seem more presentable if Fox News introduces them in a friendly way. Mr. Trump and some of his advisers are also irked that Fox News is showcasing not just Mr. Sanders, but a moderate like Ms. Klobuchar of Minnesota, a Midwest state where the Trump campaign is looking to make headway, according to people familiar with their thinking. [Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.] Mr. Sanders received generally positive reviews for his appearance on Fox News, but other Democrats remain wary. Senator Kamala Harris of California, in an interview on “Pod Save America” on Wednesday, said she would “think about” appearing on Fox News, although she declined to commit. “I’m not excluding anyone in terms of trying to earn their vote and compete for their vote,” she said. “There’s a whole other conversation to be had about how Fox News does their work and the bias with which they do it.” Mr. Castro’s campaign, in its talks with the network, had questions about who the audience would be and whether the event would be conducted in a nonpartisan manner, according to Jennifer Fiore, a senior adviser. But it was satisfied with the responses it received, including that the audience would be made up of independents and Democrats. The appearance has not been scheduled, but the two sides appear close to setting a date. Mr. Castro “has always campaigned for every vote, Democrat and Republican,” Ms. Fiore said, noting that he had served as a mayor in a red state. Some Democratic strategists pointed out that an appearance on Fox News grants access to the top-rated cable news channel — the network routinely beats its rivals CNN and MSNBC in overall ratings — along with the favorable optics of wading into the lion’s den, essentially signaling to voters that a candidate is unafraid to engage with a challenging moderator and a potentially skeptical audience. Others note that in last year’s midterm elections, Democrats were able to wrest four Midwestern governorships from Republicans, including three in states Mr. Trump captured in 2016 — showing the value of trying to win back voters in that region who might be disenchanted with the president. “It’s just a smart place to be,” said Tad Devine, Mr. Sanders’s longtime strategist, who is not working for his campaign this year. “In politics, the downsides are inevitable. You have to weigh them against the upsides. And the upside is you get to talk to millions of people.” And maybe rally the faithful, too. After Mr. Sanders’s appearance Monday, he blasted out a fund-raising appeal about it to his supporters, embedding a Fox News clip in which audience members cheered his “Medicare for all” plans. “Last night Bernie showed why he is the best candidate to beat Trump,” the email declared. Other Democrats argue that the Fox News audience is unnecessary, pointing to the excitement surrounding candidates like former Representative Beto O’Rourke, whose unapologetically liberal run for the Senate in Texas last year galvanized voters and donors, pushing him to within three points of victory. Then there is a broader concern that the symbiosis between Fox News stars and the Trump administration means the network will not treat Democrats fairly. On Monday, hours before Mr. Sanders went on the network, the chairman of the D.N.C. told a Fox News interviewer that he had no plans to reconsider his decision to bar the network from sponsoring an official party debate. “I don’t have faith in your leadership at Fox News at the senior levels,” the chairman, Tom Perez, told the anchor Bill Hemmer. Mr. Hemmer, who works on the reporting side of the network, pushed back, comparing Fox News’s opinion programming to that of a newspaper’s editorial page. “We’ll give you a fair shake,” he said. That argument has been echoed by Fox News executives, who say that the Democrats’ debate decision was shortsighted and that the network’s reporters serve as neutral journalists. Mr. Wallace won praise in 2016 for his moderating of the third presidential debate. Fox News declined to comment for this article. Lesser-known candidates like Andrew Yang, a former tech executive, and Representative Tulsi Gabbard of Hawaii have made appearances in shorter segments on the network. But Mr. Sanders is currently a front-runner in the Democratic race, and his extended appearance Monday represented a bigger leap. The audience on Monday was significantly larger than the 1.95 million who watched Ms. Harris on CNN in January, the previous benchmark for televised town halls. Mr. Sanders attracted more viewers between the ages of 25 and 54, the key demographic in cable news, than the same night’s broadcast of Rachel Maddow, who is MSNBC’s top-rated star. Still, some candidates remain on the fence. And others seem ready to dodge the subject completely.  Asked on Tuesday if she would participate in a Fox News town hall, Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts told a reporter to speak to her communications director. “She’s the one figuring out where we’re going to go and who we’re talking to,” Ms. Warren said. Contacted on Wednesday, the communications director, Kristen Orthman, declined to comment. Maggie Haberman and Nick Corasaniti contributed reporting.   Supported by By Astead W. Herndon and Matt Flegenheimer COUNCIL BLUFFS, Iowa — As Peter Johnson and Emily Neal waited for Senator Kirsten Gillibrand to arrive at Barley’s, a brick-lined sports bar in southwestern Iowa, they gamed out possible nominees in the Democratic presidential primary. Mr. Johnson, a 27-year-old law student, said the large field was a great equalizer, and “if at the end of it we get an old white guy, someone who represents the status quo, it’ll be because they’ve proven themselves.” Ms. Neal, a dental hygienist, made an agonized face at Mr. Johnson, her boyfriend. Wouldn’t something be lost, she asked, if the historically diverse slate of 2020 Democrats was passed over? “Personally, I’d love to see a woman,” Ms. Neal, also 27, said at the event on Thursday night. “If people are being catty and holding gender or race against a candidate, it would break my heart.” As former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. prepares to enter the 2020 race this coming week, Democrats have seen the strong diversity in their field — with candidates like Senators Elizabeth Warren and Kamala Harris reflecting the multiracial and largely female base of the party — become somewhat overshadowed by white male candidates. Senator Bernie Sanders has a wide fund-raising lead, he and Mr. Biden lead in polls, and former Representative Beto O’Rourke and Mayor Pete Buttigieg have enjoyed outsize attention from voters in early primary states, extensive media coverage and viral success with online donors. Interviews with several dozen Democratic voters around the country show how the party, which enjoyed victories in 2018 that were powered by female and nonwhite candidates, is now grappling with two complicated questions about race, gender and politics in the Trump era. Is a white man the best face for an increasingly diverse Democratic Party in 2020? And what’s the bigger gamble: to nominate a white man and risk disappointing some of the party’s base, or nominate a minority candidate or a woman who might struggle to carry predominantly white swing states like Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania that both Barack Obama and President Trump won? Pam Van Arsdale, 64, of Bedford, N.H., said she would like to see a minority or female candidate catch fire, and worries that nominating a white man could cause some liberals to skip voting in November 2020. “I consider myself a centrist, middle-of-the-road Democrat. And the progressive side worries me. What are they going to do? Are they going to sit it out if they don’t like the top candidate?” she said while attending a recent event for Senator Cory Booker. But Lee Kujawa, 72, of Wauwatosa, Wis., near Milwaukee, made a case for Mr. Biden, seeing him as “the most electable.” “He can stand up to Trump,” said Mr. Kujawa, who said he believed the party would not pay a penalty by nominating its first white man since John Kerry in 2004. Referring to Mr. Biden, he said, “He could pick Kamala Harris as a running mate; she’s one of my top three favorites.” [Who’s in? Who’s out? Keep up with the 2020 field with our candidate tracker.] White men have largely ruled both the Democratic and Republican parties throughout American history, even as they have declined to roughly 30 percent of the population, and many voters still have preconceptions of presidents as white and male. Mr. Biden and Mr. Sanders are starting off with other advantages as well: They are the best-known candidates at this stage, both with experience running for president, and they are well positioned to have the money and resources to compete through the 2020 primaries. But as older white men, they are out of step with ascendant forces in the party today. Women, minorities and young people are fueling much of its energy, and they are well represented by multiple well-qualified, politically savvy female and nonwhite Democrats who are running. Ms. Harris in particular has had a strong start in fund-raising, and only Mr. Biden and Mr. Sanders consistently outpace her in polls. The party also has a new primary calendar for 2020 that could help these candidates: The diverse Democratic electorates in California and Texas will vote earlier than usual, and candidates like Ms. Harris and Mr. Booker could also benefit from the sizable black vote in the early primary state of South Carolina. Many of the voters interviewed said that the most important qualification was the ability to defeat Mr. Trump, who has come away from the recent release of the Mueller report more angry than elated and wants a political victory untainted by questions of legitimacy. To some, the best Democratic candidate will be one who can wrest voters who backed Mr. Trump in battleground states like Pennsylvania and Wisconsin, as Democrats did somewhat successfully in 2018 to flip the House. Jason Pinkowski, 35, who lives in the Milwaukee suburbs, crossed off several Democrats — Mr. Biden and Mr. Sanders because they are too old, and Mr. O’Rourke because he is too young — to arrive at Mr. Booker and Ms. Harris as his current favorites. “Long story short, if a Democrat decides to put time in the Midwest, I think he or she will have a good chance,” he said. The presumption that Democrats will turn out in force to beat Mr. Trump, no matter who the nominee is, has hurt the party before. Hillary Clinton, her campaign strategy, the news media and the F.B.I. have all been blamed for her loss. For whatever reason, she lost votes in Michigan and Wisconsin in 2016 compared with Mr. Obama in 2012, including a notable falloff among black voters. Mr. Trump, in turn, energized the Republican base, which appears to remain loyal to him for the most part, and also won over some Midwest voters who once backed Mr. Obama. David Pepper, chairman of the Ohio Democratic Party, said the key to threading the electoral needle in 2020 was a diverse presidential ticket able to stop the hemorrhaging of white rural voters and to excite minority voters. He pointed to Senator Sherrod Brown’s success in Ohio in appealing to both electorates in his 2018 re-election in a state that otherwise voted for Republicans in statewide campaigns. “If between the ticket you have someone who’s got that economic populist brand of a Sherrod Brown, but also the diversity that will energize Cuyahoga County so that you have a margin of 200,000-plus versus 150,000, I think you win Ohio and all the rest of those Midwest states,” Mr. Pepper said. He was referring to the Democrat-rich county dominated by the predominantly black city of Cleveland. (To be sure, Mr. Trump won Ohio by eight percentage points in 2016.) [Keep track of the latest politics news with our newsletter.] Others see the focus on electability as too limited — and even as an underhanded way to discount black and female candidates. For this group, which includes voters and several political observers who focus on race and gender, there is a particular annoyance around code words they feel unduly penalize candidates. Questions about which contender is “electable” and who can “bring the country together” distract from areas where female and minority candidates may lead the pack, including policy proposals and who best energizes typical nonvoters. Compounding these frustrations have been Ms. Warren’s campaign fund-raising struggles and the early buzz around candidates like Mr. O’Rourke, who himself has acknowledged that he benefits from white male privilege. “Bringing the country together won’t happen right now, so just vote for the best progressive policy,” said Kyrsten Matthews, 29, who attended Ms. Warren’s Birmingham, Ala., rally. “I know that’s what I’m going to do.” For some voters interviewed during Ms. Warren’s tour throughout the South, which included stops in heavily black communities in Tennessee, Alabama and Mississippi, there was interest in candidates such as Mr. O’Rourke, Mr. Sanders or Mr. Biden because of factors unrelated to identity. In Selma, Ala., Roderick West, 62, said he was looking to support Mr. Biden because of his experience as vice president. Supporters of Mr. Sanders say his calls for wide-scale change in the country’s economic order make him a transformational candidate, regardless of skin color. And some admirers of Mr. Buttigieg say that, as a gay man, he brings diversity to the field and would be a history-making nominee. In conversations across eastern Iowa, Democratic voters acknowledged a feeling of whiplash after a midterm campaign defined largely by the success of women and people of color. Many of those interviewed seemed almost resigned to having a white male nominee, reserving their angst for what they view as a greater priority than diversity atop the Democratic ticket: defeating Mr. Trump. “It’s important to appeal to Republicans. I don’t know if a minority candidate can do that,” Catherine Rohret, who will turn 18 in June, said moments after watching Mr. O’Rourke campaign in Waterloo, Iowa. “It hurts me to say because I’m a black woman. I would love to see a woman candidate.” Rachel Cox, 35, from Iowa City, seemed exultant despite frigid temperatures moments after meeting Mr. O’Rourke at a St. Patrick’s Day 5K in North Liberty, Iowa. A former Texan who waited until after the 2018 midterms to switch her registration to Iowa — so she could vote for Mr. O’Rourke — Ms. Cox said that a white male candidate might be better positioned to build a winning coalition. “There could be two sides to that story,” she said when asked if nominating another white man could depress turnout in some corners of the party. “Beto could bring a lot of moderate Republicans who are maybe a little bit averse to voting for women or voting for minorities.” Ms. Cox had good reason to be concerned about the role of discrimination in voter choices. In several instances during Ms. Warren’s Southern tour, men who attended an event with the Massachusetts senator dismissed supporting her candidacy using sexist terminology. “Trump will run over a woman,” Carl West, 64, said as he walked to see Ms. Warren at the historic Edmund Pettus Bridge in Selma, Ala. “He’ll just run a woman into the ground.” Diane Henning, 70, a retired bookkeeper outside Milwaukee, disagreed sharply. She said it would be a mistake for Democrats to nominate a white man in 2020. “There are so many good women out there who could do the job,” she said. “I think women are a lot more open-minded, we certainly have been all of these years.” For Hannah Reid, 22, who is a graduating senior at the University of Tampa and heard Mr. Buttigieg at an event recently, her decision making on a Democratic candidate will go beyond identity. “I am a woman of color, but that’s not all that I am,” said Ms. Reid, who is black. Referring to Mr. Buttigieg, she said: “He’s in the L.G.B.T. community, which is something we’ve never seen before. It’s got to be about more than just who you are; it’s got to be about what you think and what you say, what your ideas are.” Astead W. Herndon reported from Alabama, Iowa and Mississippi, and Matt Flegenheimer from Iowa. Trip Gabriel contributed reporting from South Carolina and Wisconsin, and Nick Corasaniti from New Hampshire.    

Supported by By Astead W. Herndon and Matt Flegenheimer COUNCIL BLUFFS, Iowa — As Peter Johnson and Emily Neal waited for Senator Kirsten Gillibrand to arrive at Barley’s, a brick-lined sports bar in southwestern Iowa, they gamed out possible nominees in the Democratic presidential primary. Mr. Johnson, a 27-year-old law student, said the large field was a great equalizer, and “if at the end of it we get an old white guy, someone who represents the status quo, it’ll be because they’ve proven themselves.” Ms. Neal, a dental hygienist, made an agonized face at Mr. Johnson, her boyfriend. Wouldn’t something be lost, she asked, if the historically diverse slate of 2020 Democrats was passed over? “Personally, I’d love to see a woman,” Ms. Neal, also 27, said at the event on Thursday night. “If people are being catty and holding gender or race against a candidate, it would break my heart.” As former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. prepares to enter the 2020 race this coming week, Democrats have seen the strong diversity in their field — with candidates like Senators Elizabeth Warren and Kamala Harris reflecting the multiracial and largely female base of the party — become somewhat overshadowed by white male candidates. Senator Bernie Sanders has a wide fund-raising lead, he and Mr. Biden lead in polls, and former Representative Beto O’Rourke and Mayor Pete Buttigieg have enjoyed outsize attention from voters in early primary states, extensive media coverage and viral success with online donors. Interviews with several dozen Democratic voters around the country show how the party, which enjoyed victories in 2018 that were powered by female and nonwhite candidates, is now grappling with two complicated questions about race, gender and politics in the Trump era. Is a white man the best face for an increasingly diverse Democratic Party in 2020? And what’s the bigger gamble: to nominate a white man and risk disappointing some of the party’s base, or nominate a minority candidate or a woman who might struggle to carry predominantly white swing states like Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania that both Barack Obama and President Trump won? Pam Van Arsdale, 64, of Bedford, N.H., said she would like to see a minority or female candidate catch fire, and worries that nominating a white man could cause some liberals to skip voting in November 2020. “I consider myself a centrist, middle-of-the-road Democrat. And the progressive side worries me. What are they going to do? Are they going to sit it out if they don’t like the top candidate?” she said while attending a recent event for Senator Cory Booker. But Lee Kujawa, 72, of Wauwatosa, Wis., near Milwaukee, made a case for Mr. Biden, seeing him as “the most electable.” “He can stand up to Trump,” said Mr. Kujawa, who said he believed the party would not pay a penalty by nominating its first white man since John Kerry in 2004. Referring to Mr. Biden, he said, “He could pick Kamala Harris as a running mate; she’s one of my top three favorites.” [Who’s in? Who’s out? Keep up with the 2020 field with our candidate tracker.] White men have largely ruled both the Democratic and Republican parties throughout American history, even as they have declined to roughly 30 percent of the population, and many voters still have preconceptions of presidents as white and male. Mr. Biden and Mr. Sanders are starting off with other advantages as well: They are the best-known candidates at this stage, both with experience running for president, and they are well positioned to have the money and resources to compete through the 2020 primaries. But as older white men, they are out of step with ascendant forces in the party today. Women, minorities and young people are fueling much of its energy, and they are well represented by multiple well-qualified, politically savvy female and nonwhite Democrats who are running. Ms. Harris in particular has had a strong start in fund-raising, and only Mr. Biden and Mr. Sanders consistently outpace her in polls. The party also has a new primary calendar for 2020 that could help these candidates: The diverse Democratic electorates in California and Texas will vote earlier than usual, and candidates like Ms. Harris and Mr. Booker could also benefit from the sizable black vote in the early primary state of South Carolina. Many of the voters interviewed said that the most important qualification was the ability to defeat Mr. Trump, who has come away from the recent release of the Mueller report more angry than elated and wants a political victory untainted by questions of legitimacy. To some, the best Democratic candidate will be one who can wrest voters who backed Mr. Trump in battleground states like Pennsylvania and Wisconsin, as Democrats did somewhat successfully in 2018 to flip the House. Jason Pinkowski, 35, who lives in the Milwaukee suburbs, crossed off several Democrats — Mr. Biden and Mr. Sanders because they are too old, and Mr. O’Rourke because he is too young — to arrive at Mr. Booker and Ms. Harris as his current favorites. “Long story short, if a Democrat decides to put time in the Midwest, I think he or she will have a good chance,” he said. The presumption that Democrats will turn out in force to beat Mr. Trump, no matter who the nominee is, has hurt the party before. Hillary Clinton, her campaign strategy, the news media and the F.B.I. have all been blamed for her loss. For whatever reason, she lost votes in Michigan and Wisconsin in 2016 compared with Mr. Obama in 2012, including a notable falloff among black voters. Mr. Trump, in turn, energized the Republican base, which appears to remain loyal to him for the most part, and also won over some Midwest voters who once backed Mr. Obama. David Pepper, chairman of the Ohio Democratic Party, said the key to threading the electoral needle in 2020 was a diverse presidential ticket able to stop the hemorrhaging of white rural voters and to excite minority voters. He pointed to Senator Sherrod Brown’s success in Ohio in appealing to both electorates in his 2018 re-election in a state that otherwise voted for Republicans in statewide campaigns. “If between the ticket you have someone who’s got that economic populist brand of a Sherrod Brown, but also the diversity that will energize Cuyahoga County so that you have a margin of 200,000-plus versus 150,000, I think you win Ohio and all the rest of those Midwest states,” Mr. Pepper said. He was referring to the Democrat-rich county dominated by the predominantly black city of Cleveland. (To be sure, Mr. Trump won Ohio by eight percentage points in 2016.) [Keep track of the latest politics news with our newsletter.] Others see the focus on electability as too limited — and even as an underhanded way to discount black and female candidates. For this group, which includes voters and several political observers who focus on race and gender, there is a particular annoyance around code words they feel unduly penalize candidates. Questions about which contender is “electable” and who can “bring the country together” distract from areas where female and minority candidates may lead the pack, including policy proposals and who best energizes typical nonvoters. Compounding these frustrations have been Ms. Warren’s campaign fund-raising struggles and the early buzz around candidates like Mr. O’Rourke, who himself has acknowledged that he benefits from white male privilege. “Bringing the country together won’t happen right now, so just vote for the best progressive policy,” said Kyrsten Matthews, 29, who attended Ms. Warren’s Birmingham, Ala., rally. “I know that’s what I’m going to do.” For some voters interviewed during Ms. Warren’s tour throughout the South, which included stops in heavily black communities in Tennessee, Alabama and Mississippi, there was interest in candidates such as Mr. O’Rourke, Mr. Sanders or Mr. Biden because of factors unrelated to identity. In Selma, Ala., Roderick West, 62, said he was looking to support Mr. Biden because of his experience as vice president. Supporters of Mr. Sanders say his calls for wide-scale change in the country’s economic order make him a transformational candidate, regardless of skin color. And some admirers of Mr. Buttigieg say that, as a gay man, he brings diversity to the field and would be a history-making nominee. In conversations across eastern Iowa, Democratic voters acknowledged a feeling of whiplash after a midterm campaign defined largely by the success of women and people of color. Many of those interviewed seemed almost resigned to having a white male nominee, reserving their angst for what they view as a greater priority than diversity atop the Democratic ticket: defeating Mr. Trump. “It’s important to appeal to Republicans. I don’t know if a minority candidate can do that,” Catherine Rohret, who will turn 18 in June, said moments after watching Mr. O’Rourke campaign in Waterloo, Iowa. “It hurts me to say because I’m a black woman. I would love to see a woman candidate.” Rachel Cox, 35, from Iowa City, seemed exultant despite frigid temperatures moments after meeting Mr. O’Rourke at a St. Patrick’s Day 5K in North Liberty, Iowa. A former Texan who waited until after the 2018 midterms to switch her registration to Iowa — so she could vote for Mr. O’Rourke — Ms. Cox said that a white male candidate might be better positioned to build a winning coalition. “There could be two sides to that story,” she said when asked if nominating another white man could depress turnout in some corners of the party. “Beto could bring a lot of moderate Republicans who are maybe a little bit averse to voting for women or voting for minorities.” Ms. Cox had good reason to be concerned about the role of discrimination in voter choices. In several instances during Ms. Warren’s Southern tour, men who attended an event with the Massachusetts senator dismissed supporting her candidacy using sexist terminology. “Trump will run over a woman,” Carl West, 64, said as he walked to see Ms. Warren at the historic Edmund Pettus Bridge in Selma, Ala. “He’ll just run a woman into the ground.” Diane Henning, 70, a retired bookkeeper outside Milwaukee, disagreed sharply. She said it would be a mistake for Democrats to nominate a white man in 2020. “There are so many good women out there who could do the job,” she said. “I think women are a lot more open-minded, we certainly have been all of these years.” For Hannah Reid, 22, who is a graduating senior at the University of Tampa and heard Mr. Buttigieg at an event recently, her decision making on a Democratic candidate will go beyond identity. “I am a woman of color, but that’s not all that I am,” said Ms. Reid, who is black. Referring to Mr. Buttigieg, she said: “He’s in the L.G.B.T. community, which is something we’ve never seen before. It’s got to be about more than just who you are; it’s got to be about what you think and what you say, what your ideas are.” Astead W. Herndon reported from Alabama, Iowa and Mississippi, and Matt Flegenheimer from Iowa. Trip Gabriel contributed reporting from South Carolina and Wisconsin, and Nick Corasaniti from New Hampshire.    Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — Democrats clamoured for the speedy release of U.S. Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s findings of his probe into whether President Donald Trump's 2016 campaign colluded with Russia. Now they finally have them, and they are confronted with a choice - stay on the attack or move on.  Progressives in the party used the report to renew their calls for action, but there was little immediate consensus on how to move forward.  Billionaire Tom Steyer, who has pumped millions of dollars of his own money into a campaign calling for Trump’s removal from office, told Reuters that lawmakers in the Democratic-led House of Representatives should begin the process of impeaching Trump, a Republican, based on the evidence amassed by Mueller.  Mueller found no evidence of collusion between members of Trump's campaign and Russians, despite numerous contacts, but he amassed a wealth of evidence he said showed the president had sought to impede or control the FBI investigation. He stopped short of concluding that Trump had committed a crime but noted that the U.S. Congress had the power to address that issue. Democratic strategists said Democrats in the House, spurred on by progressives in the chamber, would continue their congressional investigations into Trump, but that Democratic presidential candidates, who hope to appeal to moderates and independents next year, are likely to take a less aggressive approach. "I don’t think Bob Mueller’s report is going to make a difference in Lordstown," said Robin Winston, a former chairman of the Indiana Democratic Party, referring to the auto plant in Ohio that auto giant General Motors shuttered last month.  Winston said economic concerns were far more pressing on voters’ minds than the Russia probe and that breathless coverage of the nearly two-year-old probe had left voters “fatigued.” Opinion polls show that the U.S. public has also largely made up its mind about the probe before the report's release on Thursday.  A Reuters/Ipsos poll conducted last month after Mueller’s conclusions were first made public showed that about half of the country still believed Trump worked with Russia to influence the 2016 election. More than half said they believe Trump tried to block the probe.  Democrats in the House signaled their efforts to investigate Trump's actions would continue. It is unclear, however, what their efforts will yield. Any attempt to force Trump from office would likely be thwarted by the Republican-controlled Senate.  The prospect of impeaching Trump has largely been downplayed by Democrats since House Speaker Nancy Pelosi argued it would be counter-productive. But Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, a popular progressive Democratic lawmaker, raised the prospect again on Thursday in a tweet. "Many know I take no pleasure in discussions of impeachment. I didn’t campaign on it, & rarely discuss it unprompted," she said on Twitter. "But the report squarely puts this on our doorstep." ON THE KITCHEN TABLE Those bidding for the 2020 Democratic nomination took a more cautious path on Thursday. While many called for Mueller to testify before Congress, there was no mention of the "I word." "It is clear that Donald Trump wanted nothing more than to shut down the Mueller investigation," U.S. Senator Bernie Sanders, a Democratic candidate, said in a statement. "While we have more detail from today's report than before, Congress must continue its investigation into Trump's conduct and any foreign attempts to influence our election."  Democratic candidates are conscious that their voters are more interested in their positions on healthcare, the economy, immigration and climate change than whether or not Trump conspired with Russia or obstructed justice. Indeed, in a two-day swing through Iowa this week, Mayor Pete Buttigieg of South Bend, Indiana did not hear a question on the topic. That has been similar to the experience of other candidates who have campaigning in early voting states.  Buttigieg’s campaign said it has not been a subject on voters’ minds. Former U.S. congressman Beto O’Rourke may have summed up the field’s collective view most succinctly while campaigning last month.  "I think the American people are going to have a chance to decide this at the ballot box in November 2020, and perhaps that’s the best way for us to resolve these outstanding questions,” he said. Democrats could be heeding the lesson of last year’s congressional elections, when they won more than 40 House seats and gained control of the chamber. Successful candidates, particularly moderates, found traction in talking more about kitchen-table issues and less about Trump.  "The base gets ginned up – as a presidential candidate you have to decide whether you are going to cater to the base or take a longer view,” said Rodell Mollineau, who served as a top aide to former Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid.  (Reporting by James Oliphant; Editing by Paritosh Bansal, Ross Colvin and Cynthia Osterman)

Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — Democrats clamoured for the speedy release of U.S. Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s findings of his probe into whether President Donald Trump's 2016 campaign colluded with Russia. Now they finally have them, and they are confronted with a choice - stay on the attack or move on.  Progressives in the party used the report to renew their calls for action, but there was little immediate consensus on how to move forward.  Billionaire Tom Steyer, who has pumped millions of dollars of his own money into a campaign calling for Trump’s removal from office, told Reuters that lawmakers in the Democratic-led House of Representatives should begin the process of impeaching Trump, a Republican, based on the evidence amassed by Mueller.  Mueller found no evidence of collusion between members of Trump's campaign and Russians, despite numerous contacts, but he amassed a wealth of evidence he said showed the president had sought to impede or control the FBI investigation. He stopped short of concluding that Trump had committed a crime but noted that the U.S. Congress had the power to address that issue. Democratic strategists said Democrats in the House, spurred on by progressives in the chamber, would continue their congressional investigations into Trump, but that Democratic presidential candidates, who hope to appeal to moderates and independents next year, are likely to take a less aggressive approach. "I don’t think Bob Mueller’s report is going to make a difference in Lordstown," said Robin Winston, a former chairman of the Indiana Democratic Party, referring to the auto plant in Ohio that auto giant General Motors shuttered last month.  Winston said economic concerns were far more pressing on voters’ minds than the Russia probe and that breathless coverage of the nearly two-year-old probe had left voters “fatigued.” Opinion polls show that the U.S. public has also largely made up its mind about the probe before the report's release on Thursday.  A Reuters/Ipsos poll conducted last month after Mueller’s conclusions were first made public showed that about half of the country still believed Trump worked with Russia to influence the 2016 election. More than half said they believe Trump tried to block the probe.  Democrats in the House signaled their efforts to investigate Trump's actions would continue. It is unclear, however, what their efforts will yield. Any attempt to force Trump from office would likely be thwarted by the Republican-controlled Senate.  The prospect of impeaching Trump has largely been downplayed by Democrats since House Speaker Nancy Pelosi argued it would be counter-productive. But Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, a popular progressive Democratic lawmaker, raised the prospect again on Thursday in a tweet. "Many know I take no pleasure in discussions of impeachment. I didn’t campaign on it, & rarely discuss it unprompted," she said on Twitter. "But the report squarely puts this on our doorstep." ON THE KITCHEN TABLE Those bidding for the 2020 Democratic nomination took a more cautious path on Thursday. While many called for Mueller to testify before Congress, there was no mention of the "I word." "It is clear that Donald Trump wanted nothing more than to shut down the Mueller investigation," U.S. Senator Bernie Sanders, a Democratic candidate, said in a statement. "While we have more detail from today's report than before, Congress must continue its investigation into Trump's conduct and any foreign attempts to influence our election."  Democratic candidates are conscious that their voters are more interested in their positions on healthcare, the economy, immigration and climate change than whether or not Trump conspired with Russia or obstructed justice. Indeed, in a two-day swing through Iowa this week, Mayor Pete Buttigieg of South Bend, Indiana did not hear a question on the topic. That has been similar to the experience of other candidates who have campaigning in early voting states.  Buttigieg’s campaign said it has not been a subject on voters’ minds. Former U.S. congressman Beto O’Rourke may have summed up the field’s collective view most succinctly while campaigning last month.  "I think the American people are going to have a chance to decide this at the ballot box in November 2020, and perhaps that’s the best way for us to resolve these outstanding questions,” he said. Democrats could be heeding the lesson of last year’s congressional elections, when they won more than 40 House seats and gained control of the chamber. Successful candidates, particularly moderates, found traction in talking more about kitchen-table issues and less about Trump.  "The base gets ginned up – as a presidential candidate you have to decide whether you are going to cater to the base or take a longer view,” said Rodell Mollineau, who served as a top aide to former Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid.  (Reporting by James Oliphant; Editing by Paritosh Bansal, Ross Colvin and Cynthia Osterman)Supported by Best of Late Night By Giovanni Russonello and Trish Bendix Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox. Stephen Colbert has been waiting for this moment since Robert Mueller took over as special counsel almost two years ago: Attorney General William P. Barr is expected to make Mueller’s report public on Thursday. Colbert has been fixated on Mueller’s investigation since 2017, and he’s already been burned a few times — particularly when Barr released a letter saying Mueller’s report stated clearly that Trump had not conspired with Russia. On Wednesday, Colbert slyly poked fun at himself for all the hope (and airtime) he’s invested in Mueller. “Now, the comedy duo of Barr and Rosenstein have scheduled a 9:30 a.m. press conference to release the report tomorrow, O.K.? Which will undoubtedly blow the lid off of Donald Trump’s corruption. And until then, I will pass the time [holds up a carton of eggs] counting my chickens, which I will safely place in one basket [dumps eggs into a basket].” — STEPHEN COLBERT Jimmy Kimmel and Seth Meyers both pointed out that the report was likely to have considerable redactions, so there’s no telling how revealing it will be. “The Mueller report is coming. Tomorrow we finally get to see the highly anticipated and heavily redacted release. How much of it will be hidden we do not know. Political analysts are going to try to read through these redactions like teenage boys trying to watch scrambled porn on cable in 1985.” — JIMMY KIMMEL “A redacted version of special counsel Robert Mueller’s report is expected to be released tomorrow morning. Right now we don’t know what’s in it, but tomorrow … won’t be any different.” — SETH MEYERS, showing an image of an entirely redacted page Although Conan O’Brien joked that there are “over 800 Democratic candidates for president” in 2020, President Trump made it clear that the ones on his mind are the white, heterosexual, male ones over the age of 70. On Tuesday, Trump tweeted, “I believe it will be Crazy Bernie Sanders vs. Sleepy Joe Biden as the two finalists.” “Classic Trump, literally ignoring every woman,” James Corden pointed out. Meanwhile, Jimmy Kimmel poked fun at Trump’s nicknames for Biden and Sanders, saying they don’t get his point across very clearly. “Is Joe Biden sleepy? I don’t know. To me, he always looks like he’s been up for two days eating cigarettes.” — JIMMY KIMMEL “‘Crazy Bernie’ and ‘Sleepy Joe’ aren’t even mean. They sound like characters in a Bruce Springsteen song, you know?” — JIMMY KIMMEL “He was heckled by an anti-gay protester. Yeah, Buttigieg handled it like a pro, and said, ‘Settle down, Mr. Vice President.’” — CONAN O’BRIEN, discussing a recent rally by the Democratic presidential candidate Pete Buttigieg “Carl’s Jr. is testing out a CBD-infused burger. So far it’s working, ’cause customers eat the burger, walk outside, look up and say, ‘Sweet! Carl’s Jr.!’ and then walk back inside.” — JIMMY FALLON “Easter is this Sunday. ‘He is risen!’ said the White House staff around 11 a.m.” — SETH MEYERS “A university professor in Japan is under investigation after he taught his science class how to make the drug ecstasy. To be fair, teaching your students how to make ecstasy seems like a great idea — when you are on ecstasy.” — JAMES CORDEN Conan O’Brien visited Australia and tried to guess at the country’s slang terms. He made a lot of blues (mistakes, that is). Wherein Jimmy Fallon runs his fingers through a mound of worms. Samantha Bee will sit down on Thursday with Stephen Colbert, her former “Daily Show” colleague. During Beyoncé’s Coachella performance last year, DJ Khaled proclaimed that the festival would heretofore be known as “Beychella.” And it hardly felt like hyperbole. Here’s our review of “Homecoming,” the new Netflix documentary about that monumental concert. Plus, Ideas for What to Watch Tonight: The 50 Best Movies on Netflix Right Now The 25 Best Films of the 21st Century The Best Movies on Amazon Prime Video Right Now

Supported by Best of Late Night By Giovanni Russonello and Trish Bendix Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox. Stephen Colbert has been waiting for this moment since Robert Mueller took over as special counsel almost two years ago: Attorney General William P. Barr is expected to make Mueller’s report public on Thursday. Colbert has been fixated on Mueller’s investigation since 2017, and he’s already been burned a few times — particularly when Barr released a letter saying Mueller’s report stated clearly that Trump had not conspired with Russia. On Wednesday, Colbert slyly poked fun at himself for all the hope (and airtime) he’s invested in Mueller. “Now, the comedy duo of Barr and Rosenstein have scheduled a 9:30 a.m. press conference to release the report tomorrow, O.K.? Which will undoubtedly blow the lid off of Donald Trump’s corruption. And until then, I will pass the time [holds up a carton of eggs] counting my chickens, which I will safely place in one basket [dumps eggs into a basket].” — STEPHEN COLBERT Jimmy Kimmel and Seth Meyers both pointed out that the report was likely to have considerable redactions, so there’s no telling how revealing it will be. “The Mueller report is coming. Tomorrow we finally get to see the highly anticipated and heavily redacted release. How much of it will be hidden we do not know. Political analysts are going to try to read through these redactions like teenage boys trying to watch scrambled porn on cable in 1985.” — JIMMY KIMMEL “A redacted version of special counsel Robert Mueller’s report is expected to be released tomorrow morning. Right now we don’t know what’s in it, but tomorrow … won’t be any different.” — SETH MEYERS, showing an image of an entirely redacted page Although Conan O’Brien joked that there are “over 800 Democratic candidates for president” in 2020, President Trump made it clear that the ones on his mind are the white, heterosexual, male ones over the age of 70. On Tuesday, Trump tweeted, “I believe it will be Crazy Bernie Sanders vs. Sleepy Joe Biden as the two finalists.” “Classic Trump, literally ignoring every woman,” James Corden pointed out. Meanwhile, Jimmy Kimmel poked fun at Trump’s nicknames for Biden and Sanders, saying they don’t get his point across very clearly. “Is Joe Biden sleepy? I don’t know. To me, he always looks like he’s been up for two days eating cigarettes.” — JIMMY KIMMEL “‘Crazy Bernie’ and ‘Sleepy Joe’ aren’t even mean. They sound like characters in a Bruce Springsteen song, you know?” — JIMMY KIMMEL “He was heckled by an anti-gay protester. Yeah, Buttigieg handled it like a pro, and said, ‘Settle down, Mr. Vice President.’” — CONAN O’BRIEN, discussing a recent rally by the Democratic presidential candidate Pete Buttigieg “Carl’s Jr. is testing out a CBD-infused burger. So far it’s working, ’cause customers eat the burger, walk outside, look up and say, ‘Sweet! Carl’s Jr.!’ and then walk back inside.” — JIMMY FALLON “Easter is this Sunday. ‘He is risen!’ said the White House staff around 11 a.m.” — SETH MEYERS “A university professor in Japan is under investigation after he taught his science class how to make the drug ecstasy. To be fair, teaching your students how to make ecstasy seems like a great idea — when you are on ecstasy.” — JAMES CORDEN Conan O’Brien visited Australia and tried to guess at the country’s slang terms. He made a lot of blues (mistakes, that is). Wherein Jimmy Fallon runs his fingers through a mound of worms. Samantha Bee will sit down on Thursday with Stephen Colbert, her former “Daily Show” colleague. During Beyoncé’s Coachella performance last year, DJ Khaled proclaimed that the festival would heretofore be known as “Beychella.” And it hardly felt like hyperbole. Here’s our review of “Homecoming,” the new Netflix documentary about that monumental concert. Plus, Ideas for What to Watch Tonight: The 50 Best Movies on Netflix Right Now The 25 Best Films of the 21st Century The Best Movies on Amazon Prime Video Right NowListen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device:  Apple Podcasts | Spotify | Google Play | RadioPublic | Stitcher In this episode of “The Argument,” recorded on April 10 before an audience at TheTimesCenter in New York, the columnists talk immigration in the Trump era. Michelle Goldberg makes the case for shunning administration officials who carried out the president’s cruel policies at the southern border. Ross Douthat thinks liberals need to reckon more fully with Barack Obama’s mixed legacy on immigration. And David Leonhardt worries that the Democratic Party lacks a clear and convincing agenda on legal and illegal immigration. Then, which of the lesser-known Democratic candidates are mounting the most credible campaigns for the highest office in the land? The columnists discuss Mayor Pete Buttigieg’s fresh face, Senator Kirsten Gillibrand’s “resistance” candidacy, Andrew Yang’s guaranteed-income proposal, Senator Cory Booker’s mass appeal and Senator Amy Klobuchar’s “Minnesota nice.” Background Reading: Ross on the Trump administration’s immigration approach and centrist Democratic candidates Michelle on boycotting Kirstjen Nielsen, Trump’s family separation policy and women running for president. David on Democrats and immigration policy, Pete Buttigieg and Amy Klobuchar’s candidacy David Frum, “If Liberals Won’t Enforce Borders, Fascists Will” (The Atlantic) I’ve been an Op-Ed columnist since 2009, and I write about politics, religion, pop culture, sociology and the places where they all intersect. I’m a Catholic and a conservative, in that order, which means that I’m against abortion and critical of the sexual revolution, but I tend to agree with liberals that the Republican Party is too friendly to the rich. I was against Donald Trump in 2016 for reasons specific to Donald Trump, but in general I think the populist movements in Europe and America have legitimate grievances and I often prefer the populists to the “reasonable” elites. I’ve written books about Harvard, the G.O.P., American Christianity and Pope Francis; I’m working on one about decadence. Benedict XVI was my favorite pope. I review movies for National Review and have strong opinions about many prestige television shows. I have three small children, two girls and a boy, and I live in New Haven with my wife. I’ve been an Op-Ed columnist at The New York Times since 2017, writing mainly about politics, ideology and gender. These days people on the right and the left both use “liberal” as an epithet, but that’s basically what I am, though the nightmare of Donald Trump’s presidency has radicalized me and pushed me leftward. I’ve written three books, including one, in 2006, about the danger of right-wing populism in its religious fundamentalist guise. (My other two were about the global battle over reproductive rights and, in a brief detour from politics, about an adventurous Russian émigré who helped bring yoga to the West.) I love to travel; a long time ago, after my husband and I eloped, we spent a year backpacking through Asia. Now we live in Brooklyn with our son and daughter. I’ve worked at The Times since 1999 and have been an Op-Ed columnist since 2016. I caught the journalism bug a very long time ago — first as a little kid in the late 1970s who loved reading the Boston Globe sports section and later as a teenager working on my high school and college newspapers. I discovered that when my classmates and I put a complaint in print, for everyone to see, school administrators actually paid attention. I’ve since worked as a metro reporter at The Washington Post and a writer at BusinessWeek magazine. At The Times, I started as a reporter in the business section and have also been a Times Magazine staff writer, the Washington bureau chief and the founding editor of The Upshot. My politics are left of center. But I’m also to the right of many Times readers. I think education reform has accomplished a lot. I think two-parent families are good for society. I think progressives should be realistic about the cultural conservatism that dominates much of this country. Most of all, however, I worry deeply about today’s Republican Party, which has become dangerously extreme. This country faces some huge challenges — inequality, climate change, the rise of China — and they’ll be very hard to solve without having both parties committed to the basic functioning of American democracy. Tune in on iTunes, Google Play, Spotify, Stitcher or wherever you listen to podcasts. Tell us what you think at argument@nytimes.com. Follow Michelle Goldberg (@michelleinbklyn), Ross Douthat (@DouthatNYT) and David Leonhardt (@DLeonhardt) on Twitter.  This week’s show is produced by Alex Laughlin for Transmitter Media and edited by Lacy Roberts. Our executive producer is Gretta Cohn. We had help from Tyson Evans, Phoebe Lett, Ian Prasad Philbrick and Wynton Wong. Our theme is composed by Allison Leyton-Brown.

Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device:  Apple Podcasts | Spotify | Google Play | RadioPublic | Stitcher In this episode of “The Argument,” recorded on April 10 before an audience at TheTimesCenter in New York, the columnists talk immigration in the Trump era. Michelle Goldberg makes the case for shunning administration officials who carried out the president’s cruel policies at the southern border. Ross Douthat thinks liberals need to reckon more fully with Barack Obama’s mixed legacy on immigration. And David Leonhardt worries that the Democratic Party lacks a clear and convincing agenda on legal and illegal immigration. Then, which of the lesser-known Democratic candidates are mounting the most credible campaigns for the highest office in the land? The columnists discuss Mayor Pete Buttigieg’s fresh face, Senator Kirsten Gillibrand’s “resistance” candidacy, Andrew Yang’s guaranteed-income proposal, Senator Cory Booker’s mass appeal and Senator Amy Klobuchar’s “Minnesota nice.” Background Reading: Ross on the Trump administration’s immigration approach and centrist Democratic candidates Michelle on boycotting Kirstjen Nielsen, Trump’s family separation policy and women running for president. David on Democrats and immigration policy, Pete Buttigieg and Amy Klobuchar’s candidacy David Frum, “If Liberals Won’t Enforce Borders, Fascists Will” (The Atlantic) I’ve been an Op-Ed columnist since 2009, and I write about politics, religion, pop culture, sociology and the places where they all intersect. I’m a Catholic and a conservative, in that order, which means that I’m against abortion and critical of the sexual revolution, but I tend to agree with liberals that the Republican Party is too friendly to the rich. I was against Donald Trump in 2016 for reasons specific to Donald Trump, but in general I think the populist movements in Europe and America have legitimate grievances and I often prefer the populists to the “reasonable” elites. I’ve written books about Harvard, the G.O.P., American Christianity and Pope Francis; I’m working on one about decadence. Benedict XVI was my favorite pope. I review movies for National Review and have strong opinions about many prestige television shows. I have three small children, two girls and a boy, and I live in New Haven with my wife. I’ve been an Op-Ed columnist at The New York Times since 2017, writing mainly about politics, ideology and gender. These days people on the right and the left both use “liberal” as an epithet, but that’s basically what I am, though the nightmare of Donald Trump’s presidency has radicalized me and pushed me leftward. I’ve written three books, including one, in 2006, about the danger of right-wing populism in its religious fundamentalist guise. (My other two were about the global battle over reproductive rights and, in a brief detour from politics, about an adventurous Russian émigré who helped bring yoga to the West.) I love to travel; a long time ago, after my husband and I eloped, we spent a year backpacking through Asia. Now we live in Brooklyn with our son and daughter. I’ve worked at The Times since 1999 and have been an Op-Ed columnist since 2016. I caught the journalism bug a very long time ago — first as a little kid in the late 1970s who loved reading the Boston Globe sports section and later as a teenager working on my high school and college newspapers. I discovered that when my classmates and I put a complaint in print, for everyone to see, school administrators actually paid attention. I’ve since worked as a metro reporter at The Washington Post and a writer at BusinessWeek magazine. At The Times, I started as a reporter in the business section and have also been a Times Magazine staff writer, the Washington bureau chief and the founding editor of The Upshot. My politics are left of center. But I’m also to the right of many Times readers. I think education reform has accomplished a lot. I think two-parent families are good for society. I think progressives should be realistic about the cultural conservatism that dominates much of this country. Most of all, however, I worry deeply about today’s Republican Party, which has become dangerously extreme. This country faces some huge challenges — inequality, climate change, the rise of China — and they’ll be very hard to solve without having both parties committed to the basic functioning of American democracy. Tune in on iTunes, Google Play, Spotify, Stitcher or wherever you listen to podcasts. Tell us what you think at argument@nytimes.com. Follow Michelle Goldberg (@michelleinbklyn), Ross Douthat (@DouthatNYT) and David Leonhardt (@DLeonhardt) on Twitter.  This week’s show is produced by Alex Laughlin for Transmitter Media and edited by Lacy Roberts. Our executive producer is Gretta Cohn. We had help from Tyson Evans, Phoebe Lett, Ian Prasad Philbrick and Wynton Wong. Our theme is composed by Allison Leyton-Brown.Supported by Politicians’ memoirs can give insight into their values. By Concepción de León More than 10 candidates have announced a bid for the presidency. Often, politicians release books pegged to their announcements to drive interest and give voters a chance to get to know them. Here is a complete guide to those books. (The list will be updated as announcements continue.) In this book, Sanders covers the two years since he last ran for president in 2016. The chapters are dated like diary entries, and in them Sanders lays out his policy positions and describes his travels across the country, advancing his progressive platform. The underlying theme of Klobuchar’s memoir is civility or, in her words, being able to “disagree without being disagreeable.” She traces her upbringing and rise in politics, all the while arguing that strategic alliances are crucial to solving the nation’s problems. Our reviewer calls Warren’s argument in this book “enlightened populism” — one vision of how the Democratic Party can lead after the 2016 presidential election upset. A former special adviser to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau under Obama, she calls for “restored financial regulation, stronger social programs and renewed investment in education, research and infrastructure” and also “makes good use of the autobiographical mode” by contrasting the opportunities she and her generation had — such as low-cost public universities — with stories of the current challenges of the middle class. Booker, raised in New Jersey and a former mayor of Newark, argues in this book that American politics should be reoriented around compassion and solidarity. He told The Times that writing it was “far, far more difficult than I had expected,” and he cried when writing about the toughest parts of his life, including the death of a mentor. Williamson, who previously ran for Congress as an Independent, announced a bid for presidency in January. She is running as a Democrat. The spirituality and new age lecturer has written dozens of books, including “Healing the Soul of America: Reclaiming Our Voices as Spiritual Citizens,” which was written in response to what Williamson viewed as a crisis in American morality. “A Politics of Love” renews this vision, calling for Americans to act out of love rather than fear. Buttigieg drew national attention when he wrote a coming-out essay for The South Bend Tribune, in particular because Mike Pence, who was governor of Indiana at the time, was championing a “religious freedom” bill that critics thought would discriminate against gays. In this memoir, parts of which our reviewer called “personal, beguiling and quite moving,” Buttigieg recalls this experience, as well as his career, from the Navy to politics. Yang, a Democrat, argues in his book that as technology continues to make many jobs obsolete, the government must take concrete steps to ensure economic stability for residents of the United States, including providing a universal basic income. This is the central promise of his campaign. In this memoir, the California senator covers her time as attorney general, as well as her upbringing in Oakland, Calif., as the child of immigrant parents: an economist father from Jamaica and a mother from India who was a cancer researcher. It includes pages of vintage and recent photos from Harris’s life. In this women’s empowerment guide, Gillibrand recounts her political career, making the argument that if women were better represented in government, so too would be their issues. Our reviewer wrote that though in some ways this book stuck to the conventions of the political memoir, “there are moments of immensely appealing self-disclosure that seldom appear in other books of this genre.” The through line in Castro’s book is his grandmother, who emigrated from Mexico when she was 9 years old and helped raise Castro and his twin brother, Joaquín. Castro, who was a former Democratic mayor of San Antonio, Texas, explains how access to quality schooling shaped his professional path.  In this forthcoming memoir, Gabbard will write about her military career, as well as how she became the first Hindu woman elected to Congress in 2012. Delaney was a businessman before he ran for Congress, and in this book, he writes about why he left the private sector and what politicians can learn from entrepreneurs.  Concepción de León is the digital staff writer covering literary news and culture for the Books Desk. Separately, she launched El Espace for the Styles section, a weekly column in which she writes about news and culture for a Latinx audience. She previously worked for Glamour magazine.  

Supported by Politicians’ memoirs can give insight into their values. By Concepción de León More than 10 candidates have announced a bid for the presidency. Often, politicians release books pegged to their announcements to drive interest and give voters a chance to get to know them. Here is a complete guide to those books. (The list will be updated as announcements continue.) In this book, Sanders covers the two years since he last ran for president in 2016. The chapters are dated like diary entries, and in them Sanders lays out his policy positions and describes his travels across the country, advancing his progressive platform. The underlying theme of Klobuchar’s memoir is civility or, in her words, being able to “disagree without being disagreeable.” She traces her upbringing and rise in politics, all the while arguing that strategic alliances are crucial to solving the nation’s problems. Our reviewer calls Warren’s argument in this book “enlightened populism” — one vision of how the Democratic Party can lead after the 2016 presidential election upset. A former special adviser to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau under Obama, she calls for “restored financial regulation, stronger social programs and renewed investment in education, research and infrastructure” and also “makes good use of the autobiographical mode” by contrasting the opportunities she and her generation had — such as low-cost public universities — with stories of the current challenges of the middle class. Booker, raised in New Jersey and a former mayor of Newark, argues in this book that American politics should be reoriented around compassion and solidarity. He told The Times that writing it was “far, far more difficult than I had expected,” and he cried when writing about the toughest parts of his life, including the death of a mentor. Williamson, who previously ran for Congress as an Independent, announced a bid for presidency in January. She is running as a Democrat. The spirituality and new age lecturer has written dozens of books, including “Healing the Soul of America: Reclaiming Our Voices as Spiritual Citizens,” which was written in response to what Williamson viewed as a crisis in American morality. “A Politics of Love” renews this vision, calling for Americans to act out of love rather than fear. Buttigieg drew national attention when he wrote a coming-out essay for The South Bend Tribune, in particular because Mike Pence, who was governor of Indiana at the time, was championing a “religious freedom” bill that critics thought would discriminate against gays. In this memoir, parts of which our reviewer called “personal, beguiling and quite moving,” Buttigieg recalls this experience, as well as his career, from the Navy to politics. Yang, a Democrat, argues in his book that as technology continues to make many jobs obsolete, the government must take concrete steps to ensure economic stability for residents of the United States, including providing a universal basic income. This is the central promise of his campaign. In this memoir, the California senator covers her time as attorney general, as well as her upbringing in Oakland, Calif., as the child of immigrant parents: an economist father from Jamaica and a mother from India who was a cancer researcher. It includes pages of vintage and recent photos from Harris’s life. In this women’s empowerment guide, Gillibrand recounts her political career, making the argument that if women were better represented in government, so too would be their issues. Our reviewer wrote that though in some ways this book stuck to the conventions of the political memoir, “there are moments of immensely appealing self-disclosure that seldom appear in other books of this genre.” The through line in Castro’s book is his grandmother, who emigrated from Mexico when she was 9 years old and helped raise Castro and his twin brother, Joaquín. Castro, who was a former Democratic mayor of San Antonio, Texas, explains how access to quality schooling shaped his professional path.  In this forthcoming memoir, Gabbard will write about her military career, as well as how she became the first Hindu woman elected to Congress in 2012. Delaney was a businessman before he ran for Congress, and in this book, he writes about why he left the private sector and what politicians can learn from entrepreneurs.  Concepción de León is the digital staff writer covering literary news and culture for the Books Desk. Separately, she launched El Espace for the Styles section, a weekly column in which she writes about news and culture for a Latinx audience. She previously worked for Glamour magazine.  Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — Democratic presidential candidates raised about $75 million during the first quarter of the 2020 election, a lackluster sum spread out across more than a dozen campaigns that signals a drawn-out battle likely lies ahead. Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders led the field by raising $18 million and California Sen. Kamala Harris came in second with $12 million. Former Texas Rep. Beto O'Rourke came in third with $9.3 million, followed by South Bend, Indiana, Mayor Pete Buttigieg, who capitalized on a flurry of publicity to raise $7 million. The rest of the field of more than a dozen candidates raised $6 million or less apiece. Fundraising figures submitted to the Federal Election Commission by Monday's reporting deadline show Democratic candidates not only lag behind President Donald Trump, who raised $30 million, but took in less than the party did during the same period in the 2008 election. That year eight candidates collectively raised over $80 million despite a maximum donation amount that was hundreds of dollars less than the current $2,800 cap. Part of the difficulty is many donors are staying on the sidelines, waiting for the field to thin. At the same time, low-dollar contributions from party's base, a source of money that helped Democrats retake the House last year, haven't made up the difference. "There is no question that the numbers are not at the level that they were with Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton in 2008," said Tom Nides, a Clinton adviser and longtime fundraiser. "Am I worried? No, I'm not worried. But I'm a little bit concerned." The dynamic could change rapidly in the months ahead as Democrats participate in the first presidential debate of the cycle in June. Donors could look to those performances to decide where to direct their money. Former Vice President Joe Biden's expected White House campaign also could scramble the situation. "Biden is probably going to run, and he is going to raise a boatload of money. He just will. And then the overall numbers will start to look better," said Tim Lim, a digital strategist and fundraiser who worked for Obama and Clinton. Outside of the fundraising front-runners comes Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren, who raised $6 million, Minnesota Sen. Amy Klobuchar with $5.2 million and New Jersey Sen. Cory Booker, who raised $5 million. New York Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand raised $3 million, while Washington Gov. Jay Inslee raised $2.2 million, former Colorado Gov. John Hickenlooper took in about $2 million and Hawaii Rep. Tulsi Gabbard raised $1.9 million. Former Housing Secretary Julian Castro took in $1.1 million. A combination of factors has led to the candidates' cash quandary. Some of the donors who are getting involved in the campaign are cutting checks to multiple candidates but aren't bundling money by asking their friends, colleagues and acquaintances to give, too. Despite a large amount of hype surrounding online fundraising, it's also proven to be unreliable. Networks of online donors take time to build out, and the ability to raise money on the internet often can be tied to a fleeting viral moment that provokes a vivid emotional response from the party's base. "People are running slash-and-burn email programs. When you are trying to turn around these donations from your newly added-on activists in two months or less, it's only going to hurt you because nobody is going to want to deal with that many emails," Lim said. "To get the most successful (return on investment) you have to engage with your audiences over several months or more, and you can't make it all about money." Then there's the fierce intraparty debate over the propriety of relying on big-money donors to finance their campaigns. Warren, who has struggled to raise money, tried to force the issue by stating that she would forgo traditional fundraisers, a risky gambit aimed at getting the party's grassroots engaged. While Sanders, Buttigieg and O'Rourke raised significant sums on the internet, Warren has lagged, though most of her money came from online donors. Both she and Gillibrand spent nearly as much as they raised, though both have millions in their Senate campaign funds that they can tap to stay afloat. Some Democrats fear a campaign finance purity test will only hurt the rest of the field. "What's happening right now — and I think this is a brilliant political strategy on Bernie's part — is that no candidate can touch him by raising money the way he raises it," said Rufus Gifford, Obama's former finance director. "If this continues, you could see Bernie Sanders as the only candidate with a massive financial advantage. You've got to think that gives him a leg up over any other campaign. In my mind, the other campaigns are walking into that trap." ___ Associated Press writer Bill Barrow in Spartanburg, South Carolina, contributed to this report.

Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — Democratic presidential candidates raised about $75 million during the first quarter of the 2020 election, a lackluster sum spread out across more than a dozen campaigns that signals a drawn-out battle likely lies ahead. Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders led the field by raising $18 million and California Sen. Kamala Harris came in second with $12 million. Former Texas Rep. Beto O'Rourke came in third with $9.3 million, followed by South Bend, Indiana, Mayor Pete Buttigieg, who capitalized on a flurry of publicity to raise $7 million. The rest of the field of more than a dozen candidates raised $6 million or less apiece. Fundraising figures submitted to the Federal Election Commission by Monday's reporting deadline show Democratic candidates not only lag behind President Donald Trump, who raised $30 million, but took in less than the party did during the same period in the 2008 election. That year eight candidates collectively raised over $80 million despite a maximum donation amount that was hundreds of dollars less than the current $2,800 cap. Part of the difficulty is many donors are staying on the sidelines, waiting for the field to thin. At the same time, low-dollar contributions from party's base, a source of money that helped Democrats retake the House last year, haven't made up the difference. "There is no question that the numbers are not at the level that they were with Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton in 2008," said Tom Nides, a Clinton adviser and longtime fundraiser. "Am I worried? No, I'm not worried. But I'm a little bit concerned." The dynamic could change rapidly in the months ahead as Democrats participate in the first presidential debate of the cycle in June. Donors could look to those performances to decide where to direct their money. Former Vice President Joe Biden's expected White House campaign also could scramble the situation. "Biden is probably going to run, and he is going to raise a boatload of money. He just will. And then the overall numbers will start to look better," said Tim Lim, a digital strategist and fundraiser who worked for Obama and Clinton. Outside of the fundraising front-runners comes Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren, who raised $6 million, Minnesota Sen. Amy Klobuchar with $5.2 million and New Jersey Sen. Cory Booker, who raised $5 million. New York Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand raised $3 million, while Washington Gov. Jay Inslee raised $2.2 million, former Colorado Gov. John Hickenlooper took in about $2 million and Hawaii Rep. Tulsi Gabbard raised $1.9 million. Former Housing Secretary Julian Castro took in $1.1 million. A combination of factors has led to the candidates' cash quandary. Some of the donors who are getting involved in the campaign are cutting checks to multiple candidates but aren't bundling money by asking their friends, colleagues and acquaintances to give, too. Despite a large amount of hype surrounding online fundraising, it's also proven to be unreliable. Networks of online donors take time to build out, and the ability to raise money on the internet often can be tied to a fleeting viral moment that provokes a vivid emotional response from the party's base. "People are running slash-and-burn email programs. When you are trying to turn around these donations from your newly added-on activists in two months or less, it's only going to hurt you because nobody is going to want to deal with that many emails," Lim said. "To get the most successful (return on investment) you have to engage with your audiences over several months or more, and you can't make it all about money." Then there's the fierce intraparty debate over the propriety of relying on big-money donors to finance their campaigns. Warren, who has struggled to raise money, tried to force the issue by stating that she would forgo traditional fundraisers, a risky gambit aimed at getting the party's grassroots engaged. While Sanders, Buttigieg and O'Rourke raised significant sums on the internet, Warren has lagged, though most of her money came from online donors. Both she and Gillibrand spent nearly as much as they raised, though both have millions in their Senate campaign funds that they can tap to stay afloat. Some Democrats fear a campaign finance purity test will only hurt the rest of the field. "What's happening right now — and I think this is a brilliant political strategy on Bernie's part — is that no candidate can touch him by raising money the way he raises it," said Rufus Gifford, Obama's former finance director. "If this continues, you could see Bernie Sanders as the only candidate with a massive financial advantage. You've got to think that gives him a leg up over any other campaign. In my mind, the other campaigns are walking into that trap." ___ Associated Press writer Bill Barrow in Spartanburg, South Carolina, contributed to this report.Supported by By Astead W. Herndon and Matt Stevens CRESTON, Iowa — Senator Kirsten Gillibrand of New York had just finished a speech at a coffee shop in southwest Iowa on Thursday, one that focused on rural issues like expanding broadband and developing the local economy. But the first question from her audience, posed by a man named Matt Brummett, focused on what he saw as a more urgent matter: “Should Democrats impeach Attorney General William Barr?” Ms. Gillibrand said it was unclear if Congress had that power (though the Constitution grants it). But she took the opportunity to criticize Mr. Barr’s handling of the special counsel’s report. “He’s behaving as the president’s personal lawyer,” Ms. Gillibrand said. “He’s not behaving as the attorney general of the United States.” With that, Ms. Gillibrand joined several other Democratic presidential candidates who assailed Mr. Barr for the way he handled the release of the Mueller report, arguing that his framing of its findings amounted to a partisan attempt to protect President Trump. [Keep track of the latest politics news with our newsletter.] As the day proceeded, candidates such as Senators Elizabeth Warren, Kamala Harris and Ms. Gillibrand took turns criticizing Mr. Barr, first for holding a news conference about the report before anyone could review it and then for the amount of the report that was redacted when it was released. Ms. Warren accused Mr. Barr of acting like a “publicist for the president of the United States” and called his media briefing “a disgrace.” Ms. Harris added that the briefing had been “filled with political spin and propaganda” that “should concern us all.” By late Thursday, other candidates like Mayor Pete Buttigieg and Julián Castro appeared to have reviewed the more than 400-page report by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III. They said they found the information in it more alarming than exonerating. Many, including Senator Bernie Sanders, directed their ire toward Mr. Trump, blaming the president for obstructing the investigation and vowing to continue gathering information about his actions. In issuing their analysis of the report, however, the Democratic candidates largely avoided discussing its substance in detail and did not point out specific passages they found most concerning. Mr. Buttigieg, for instance, spoke about it in broad strokes, saying: “The Mueller report is a disturbing if not completely surprising collection of evidence that shows a president putting his own interests ahead of the country’s.” “It is clear that Donald Trump wanted nothing more than to shut down the Mueller investigation,” Mr. Sanders said. “While we have more detail from today’s report than before, Congress must continue its investigation into Trump’s conduct and any foreign attempts to influence our election.” The appraisal of Mr. Barr’s performance, the report’s contents and Mr. Trump’s role in the ordeal came as lawmakers and the public at large were still digesting the redacted version of the report by Mr. Mueller, who investigated Russian interference in the 2016 election, any ties between the Russian effort and the Trump campaign and possible obstruction of justice by Mr. Trump. That version of the report was published online around 11 a.m. Thursday, about 90 minutes after Mr. Barr offered a strong defense of Mr. Trump at his news conference. [Read excerpts and analysis of the report.] Asked about the results of the inquiry during a town-hall meeting in Nashua, N.H., former Representative Beto O’Rourke said he would defer to his former colleagues in the House on impeachment but drew applause when he said Mr. Trump’s fate would be “decided in November of 2020 and will inform the choice that we make.” Speaking to reporters later, Mr. O’Rourke noted that he had only been asked about impeachment a handful of times since entering the presidential race, pointing out that voters are far more focused on policy matters. “I don’t know that impeachment and those proceedings in the House and potential trial in the Senate is going to answer those questions for people,” he said. Senator Amy Klobuchar echoed many of the other Democrats competing for the chance to run against Mr. Trump in 2020 when she said that the public wanted to hear from Mr. Mueller directly. In a video on Twitter, she called on him to testify before the Senate Judiciary Committee; she is a member of the committee, as is Ms. Harris and Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey, who are among the 18 Democrats running for president. “Today’s delivery of the redacted special counsel’s report underscores the need for Congress to receive the unredacted report and to hear from Robert Mueller himself about his findings,” she later said in a statement. “The attorney general has shown his bias again and again.” At the news conference, Mr. Barr said he had given Mr. Trump’s lawyers access to Mr. Mueller’s report “earlier this week,” before it was to be sent to Congress and made public. Ms. Gillibrand said on Twitter that she was “deeply disturbed” by that move. But of the 18 Democrats currently in the field, only Representative Eric Swalwell of California called on Mr. Barr to resign. “You can be the president’s defense attorney or America’s attorney general,” Mr. Swalwell said in a statement, “but you can’t be both.” Astead W. Herndon reported from Iowa and Matt Stevens from New York. Jonathan Martin contributed reporting from Nashua, N.H.    

Supported by By Astead W. Herndon and Matt Stevens CRESTON, Iowa — Senator Kirsten Gillibrand of New York had just finished a speech at a coffee shop in southwest Iowa on Thursday, one that focused on rural issues like expanding broadband and developing the local economy. But the first question from her audience, posed by a man named Matt Brummett, focused on what he saw as a more urgent matter: “Should Democrats impeach Attorney General William Barr?” Ms. Gillibrand said it was unclear if Congress had that power (though the Constitution grants it). But she took the opportunity to criticize Mr. Barr’s handling of the special counsel’s report. “He’s behaving as the president’s personal lawyer,” Ms. Gillibrand said. “He’s not behaving as the attorney general of the United States.” With that, Ms. Gillibrand joined several other Democratic presidential candidates who assailed Mr. Barr for the way he handled the release of the Mueller report, arguing that his framing of its findings amounted to a partisan attempt to protect President Trump. [Keep track of the latest politics news with our newsletter.] As the day proceeded, candidates such as Senators Elizabeth Warren, Kamala Harris and Ms. Gillibrand took turns criticizing Mr. Barr, first for holding a news conference about the report before anyone could review it and then for the amount of the report that was redacted when it was released. Ms. Warren accused Mr. Barr of acting like a “publicist for the president of the United States” and called his media briefing “a disgrace.” Ms. Harris added that the briefing had been “filled with political spin and propaganda” that “should concern us all.” By late Thursday, other candidates like Mayor Pete Buttigieg and Julián Castro appeared to have reviewed the more than 400-page report by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III. They said they found the information in it more alarming than exonerating. Many, including Senator Bernie Sanders, directed their ire toward Mr. Trump, blaming the president for obstructing the investigation and vowing to continue gathering information about his actions. In issuing their analysis of the report, however, the Democratic candidates largely avoided discussing its substance in detail and did not point out specific passages they found most concerning. Mr. Buttigieg, for instance, spoke about it in broad strokes, saying: “The Mueller report is a disturbing if not completely surprising collection of evidence that shows a president putting his own interests ahead of the country’s.” “It is clear that Donald Trump wanted nothing more than to shut down the Mueller investigation,” Mr. Sanders said. “While we have more detail from today’s report than before, Congress must continue its investigation into Trump’s conduct and any foreign attempts to influence our election.” The appraisal of Mr. Barr’s performance, the report’s contents and Mr. Trump’s role in the ordeal came as lawmakers and the public at large were still digesting the redacted version of the report by Mr. Mueller, who investigated Russian interference in the 2016 election, any ties between the Russian effort and the Trump campaign and possible obstruction of justice by Mr. Trump. That version of the report was published online around 11 a.m. Thursday, about 90 minutes after Mr. Barr offered a strong defense of Mr. Trump at his news conference. [Read excerpts and analysis of the report.] Asked about the results of the inquiry during a town-hall meeting in Nashua, N.H., former Representative Beto O’Rourke said he would defer to his former colleagues in the House on impeachment but drew applause when he said Mr. Trump’s fate would be “decided in November of 2020 and will inform the choice that we make.” Speaking to reporters later, Mr. O’Rourke noted that he had only been asked about impeachment a handful of times since entering the presidential race, pointing out that voters are far more focused on policy matters. “I don’t know that impeachment and those proceedings in the House and potential trial in the Senate is going to answer those questions for people,” he said. Senator Amy Klobuchar echoed many of the other Democrats competing for the chance to run against Mr. Trump in 2020 when she said that the public wanted to hear from Mr. Mueller directly. In a video on Twitter, she called on him to testify before the Senate Judiciary Committee; she is a member of the committee, as is Ms. Harris and Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey, who are among the 18 Democrats running for president. “Today’s delivery of the redacted special counsel’s report underscores the need for Congress to receive the unredacted report and to hear from Robert Mueller himself about his findings,” she later said in a statement. “The attorney general has shown his bias again and again.” At the news conference, Mr. Barr said he had given Mr. Trump’s lawyers access to Mr. Mueller’s report “earlier this week,” before it was to be sent to Congress and made public. Ms. Gillibrand said on Twitter that she was “deeply disturbed” by that move. But of the 18 Democrats currently in the field, only Representative Eric Swalwell of California called on Mr. Barr to resign. “You can be the president’s defense attorney or America’s attorney general,” Mr. Swalwell said in a statement, “but you can’t be both.” Astead W. Herndon reported from Iowa and Matt Stevens from New York. Jonathan Martin contributed reporting from Nashua, N.H.    Supported by Their incomes are flat. Their wealth is down. And Washington is aggravating future threats.  By David Leonhardt Opinion Columnist For Americans under the age of 40, the 21st century has resembled one long recession. I realize that may sound like an exaggeration, given that the economy has now been growing for almost a decade. But the truth is that younger Americans have not benefited much. Look at incomes, for starters. People between the ages of 25 and 34 were earning slightly less in 2017 than people in that same age group had been in 2000: The wealth trends look even worse. Since the century’s start, median net worth has plummeted for every age group under 55:  Why is this happening? The main reason is a lack of economic dynamism. Not as many new companies have been forming since 2000 — for reasons that experts don’t totally understand — and existing companies have been expanding at a slower rate. (The pace of job cuts has also fallen, which is why the unemployment rate has stayed low.) Rather than starting new projects, companies are sitting on big piles of cash or distributing it to their shareholders. This loss of dynamism hurts millennials and the younger Generation Z, even as baby boomers are often doing O.K. Because the layoff rate has declined since 2000, most older workers have been able to hold on to their jobs. For those who are retired, their income — through a combination of Social Security and 401(k)’s — still outpaces inflation on average.  But many younger workers are struggling to launch themselves into good-paying careers. They then lack the money to buy a first home or begin investing in the stock market. Yes, older workers face their own challenges, like age discrimination. Over all, though, the generational gap in both income and wealth is growing. [Sign up for David Leonhardt’s daily newsletter — with commentary on the news and reading suggestions from around the web.] Given these trends, you’d think the government would be trying to help the young. But it’s not. If anything, federal and state policy is going in the other direction. Medicare and Social Security have been spared from cuts. Programs that benefit younger workers and families have not.  The biggest example is higher education. Over the past decade, states have cut college funding by an average of 16 percent per student. It’s a shocking form of economic myopia. In response, tuition has risen, and students have taken on more debt. Worst of all, many students attend colleges with high dropout rates and end up with debt but no degree. And as badly as the government is treating the young today, the future looks even more ominous.  First, the national debt, while manageable now, is on pace to soar. The primary cause is the cost of health care: Most Americans receive far more in Medicare benefits than they paid in Medicare taxes. The Trump tax cut also plays a role. It is increasing the debt — and it mostly benefits older, affluent households.  Second, the warming planet is likely to cause terrible damage and bring huge costs.  Young Americans favor aggressive action, now, to slow climate change. But the Republican Party — which wins elections with strong support from older voters — has vetoed any such action. As a result, greenhouse gases keep spewing into the atmosphere, and the climate crisis is likely to be far worse than it needs to be. Today’s young Americans will be left to suffer the consequences and bear the costs. Last week, one of those young Americans — somebody who qualifies as an older millennial — announced that he was running for president: the 37-year-old mayor of South Bend, Ind., Pete Buttigieg. A Navy veteran and Rhodes scholar who’s been praised by Barack Obama, Buttigieg (“BOOT-edge-edge”) is a rising star in Democratic politics. But of course he is a long shot to win the nomination. He is the mayor of a moderate-size city, after all. And yet I think his candidacy is important, because it has the potential to influence the entire campaign. Buttigieg kicked off his run by talking about “intergenerational justice” and made clear that he would focus sharply on the future. After we spoke on Friday, I looked at my notes and discovered he hadn’t said “Trump” once. During our conversation, I asked him how he hoped to win over older Americans — who, to their credit, vote at much higher rates than the young — and he told me an intriguing story. When he first ran for mayor of South Bend in 2011, he had the money to conduct only one poll. In it, his team asked voters how they would feel about having such a young mayor. The group most likely to see it as an advantage were the oldest voters. “Many of the people who respond most positively to a moral message about the future are older people,” he said. “The American story is one of making sure that each generation is better off than the last. I don’t want my generation to be the first not to enjoy that. But I also think older generations don’t want to be the ones to cause that.” There are some unavoidable trade-offs between the young and the old: A dollar spent on Medicare is unavailable for universal pre-K. But the country’s biggest economic problems aren’t about hordes of greedy old people profiting off the young. They’re about an economy that showers much of its bounty on the already affluent, at the expense of most Americans — and of our future. The young pay the biggest price for these inequities. That’s a vital subject for the 2020 campaign, whoever the leading candidates end up being. Sign up for David Leonhardt’s daily newsletter with commentary on the news and reading suggestions from around the web. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt • Facebook 

Supported by Their incomes are flat. Their wealth is down. And Washington is aggravating future threats.  By David Leonhardt Opinion Columnist For Americans under the age of 40, the 21st century has resembled one long recession. I realize that may sound like an exaggeration, given that the economy has now been growing for almost a decade. But the truth is that younger Americans have not benefited much. Look at incomes, for starters. People between the ages of 25 and 34 were earning slightly less in 2017 than people in that same age group had been in 2000: The wealth trends look even worse. Since the century’s start, median net worth has plummeted for every age group under 55:  Why is this happening? The main reason is a lack of economic dynamism. Not as many new companies have been forming since 2000 — for reasons that experts don’t totally understand — and existing companies have been expanding at a slower rate. (The pace of job cuts has also fallen, which is why the unemployment rate has stayed low.) Rather than starting new projects, companies are sitting on big piles of cash or distributing it to their shareholders. This loss of dynamism hurts millennials and the younger Generation Z, even as baby boomers are often doing O.K. Because the layoff rate has declined since 2000, most older workers have been able to hold on to their jobs. For those who are retired, their income — through a combination of Social Security and 401(k)’s — still outpaces inflation on average.  But many younger workers are struggling to launch themselves into good-paying careers. They then lack the money to buy a first home or begin investing in the stock market. Yes, older workers face their own challenges, like age discrimination. Over all, though, the generational gap in both income and wealth is growing. [Sign up for David Leonhardt’s daily newsletter — with commentary on the news and reading suggestions from around the web.] Given these trends, you’d think the government would be trying to help the young. But it’s not. If anything, federal and state policy is going in the other direction. Medicare and Social Security have been spared from cuts. Programs that benefit younger workers and families have not.  The biggest example is higher education. Over the past decade, states have cut college funding by an average of 16 percent per student. It’s a shocking form of economic myopia. In response, tuition has risen, and students have taken on more debt. Worst of all, many students attend colleges with high dropout rates and end up with debt but no degree. And as badly as the government is treating the young today, the future looks even more ominous.  First, the national debt, while manageable now, is on pace to soar. The primary cause is the cost of health care: Most Americans receive far more in Medicare benefits than they paid in Medicare taxes. The Trump tax cut also plays a role. It is increasing the debt — and it mostly benefits older, affluent households.  Second, the warming planet is likely to cause terrible damage and bring huge costs.  Young Americans favor aggressive action, now, to slow climate change. But the Republican Party — which wins elections with strong support from older voters — has vetoed any such action. As a result, greenhouse gases keep spewing into the atmosphere, and the climate crisis is likely to be far worse than it needs to be. Today’s young Americans will be left to suffer the consequences and bear the costs. Last week, one of those young Americans — somebody who qualifies as an older millennial — announced that he was running for president: the 37-year-old mayor of South Bend, Ind., Pete Buttigieg. A Navy veteran and Rhodes scholar who’s been praised by Barack Obama, Buttigieg (“BOOT-edge-edge”) is a rising star in Democratic politics. But of course he is a long shot to win the nomination. He is the mayor of a moderate-size city, after all. And yet I think his candidacy is important, because it has the potential to influence the entire campaign. Buttigieg kicked off his run by talking about “intergenerational justice” and made clear that he would focus sharply on the future. After we spoke on Friday, I looked at my notes and discovered he hadn’t said “Trump” once. During our conversation, I asked him how he hoped to win over older Americans — who, to their credit, vote at much higher rates than the young — and he told me an intriguing story. When he first ran for mayor of South Bend in 2011, he had the money to conduct only one poll. In it, his team asked voters how they would feel about having such a young mayor. The group most likely to see it as an advantage were the oldest voters. “Many of the people who respond most positively to a moral message about the future are older people,” he said. “The American story is one of making sure that each generation is better off than the last. I don’t want my generation to be the first not to enjoy that. But I also think older generations don’t want to be the ones to cause that.” There are some unavoidable trade-offs between the young and the old: A dollar spent on Medicare is unavailable for universal pre-K. But the country’s biggest economic problems aren’t about hordes of greedy old people profiting off the young. They’re about an economy that showers much of its bounty on the already affluent, at the expense of most Americans — and of our future. The young pay the biggest price for these inequities. That’s a vital subject for the 2020 campaign, whoever the leading candidates end up being. Sign up for David Leonhardt’s daily newsletter with commentary on the news and reading suggestions from around the web. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt • Facebook Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — U.S. Senator Amy Klobuchar raised more than $5 million during the first seven weeks of her 2020 White House bid, with more than $3 million left over from her Senate campaign, leaving her with total cash on hand of about $7 million, her campaign said on Monday. Klobuchar's first quarter fundraising total is considerably less than others among the more than 15 Democrats who have announced they are running for the party's 2020 presidential nomination. Senator Bernie Sanders leads the pack, raising about $18 million during the first six weeks of his presidential run, his campaign said. Senator Kamala Harris raised $12 million during the first three months of 2019, according to figures released by her campaign.  Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Indiana, who recently saw a bump in opinion polls but is still considered a long-shot, announced last week that he had raised $7 million during the first quarter. Beto O’Rourke, a former U.S congressman from Texas, raised $9.4 million in the first 18 days of his bid for the presidency, his campaign said. The campaign of Senator Elizabeth Warren, who has sworn off high-dollar fundraisers to focus on grassroots donations, said she hit her first-quarter fundraising goal but has not yet released a figure. Fundraising is an early way to prove to donors and potential supporters that a candidate is viable.  Grassroots fundraising is also one of the qualifying criteria for the Democratic primary debates. Candidates can qualify if they have 65,000 unique donors, along with a minimum of 200 donors per state in at least 20 states. Klobuchar's campaign said the average online grassroots contribution was $40 and that 85 percent of all donors gave less than $100. Presidential candidates are required by law to report all campaign donations. They cannot accept more than $2,800 from a single donor during the primary race. The campaigns' first quarter fundraising reports are due to the Federal Election Commission by April 15.   (Reporting by Amanda Becker; Editing by Tom Brown)

Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — U.S. Senator Amy Klobuchar raised more than $5 million during the first seven weeks of her 2020 White House bid, with more than $3 million left over from her Senate campaign, leaving her with total cash on hand of about $7 million, her campaign said on Monday. Klobuchar's first quarter fundraising total is considerably less than others among the more than 15 Democrats who have announced they are running for the party's 2020 presidential nomination. Senator Bernie Sanders leads the pack, raising about $18 million during the first six weeks of his presidential run, his campaign said. Senator Kamala Harris raised $12 million during the first three months of 2019, according to figures released by her campaign.  Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Indiana, who recently saw a bump in opinion polls but is still considered a long-shot, announced last week that he had raised $7 million during the first quarter. Beto O’Rourke, a former U.S congressman from Texas, raised $9.4 million in the first 18 days of his bid for the presidency, his campaign said. The campaign of Senator Elizabeth Warren, who has sworn off high-dollar fundraisers to focus on grassroots donations, said she hit her first-quarter fundraising goal but has not yet released a figure. Fundraising is an early way to prove to donors and potential supporters that a candidate is viable.  Grassroots fundraising is also one of the qualifying criteria for the Democratic primary debates. Candidates can qualify if they have 65,000 unique donors, along with a minimum of 200 donors per state in at least 20 states. Klobuchar's campaign said the average online grassroots contribution was $40 and that 85 percent of all donors gave less than $100. Presidential candidates are required by law to report all campaign donations. They cannot accept more than $2,800 from a single donor during the primary race. The campaigns' first quarter fundraising reports are due to the Federal Election Commission by April 15.   (Reporting by Amanda Becker; Editing by Tom Brown)Supported by Best of Late Night By Giovanni Russonello Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox. Senator Mike Lee of Utah on Wednesday gave a speech on the Senate floor that was sarcastic to the point of absurdity. In a sendup of the Green New Deal, a sweeping climate proposal put forward by left-wing Democrats, Lee used an image of Luke Skywalker riding a Tauntaun in a “Star Wars” film, as well as a painting of President Ronald Reagan on a dinosaur. Stephen Colbert mimicked his technique, breaking out an easel, pictures and his own “Star Wars” reference. “Senator Lee, you’re the most embarrassing part of a storied American institution. You, sir, are the Jar Jar Binks of the Senate,” he said, unveiling a picture of the reviled character. Later, Colbert flipped to an image of Mr. T firing a crossbow while riding on the back of a giant sloth. “Why, you ask?” he said. “Because my graphics team went and got high.” Samantha Bee analyzed the fallout this week from the release of Attorney General William P. Barr’s letter summarizing the Mueller report. She was particularly bothered by a letter sent by President Trump’s 2020 campaign to TV producers, suggesting that they should refuse to bring on their shows certain Democrats who endorsed the idea that Trump had colluded with Russia’s election interference. “Wow. Usually when he writes to TV producers it’s to ask them to hide footage of him saying the N-word.” — SAMANTHA BEE She also accused Barr of omitting some important information: “Mueller was tasked with discovering whether Trump or his circle were under the sway of a foreign adversary, and we still have no idea what he found. Barr didn’t mention it at all — which is something, considering that he already quoted the Mueller report as selectively as a review on the poster for a [expletive] movie. ‘“Transformers 8” is a giant piece of … movie!’” — SAMANTHA BEE Colbert poked fun at Trump for doubling down on his fight against the Affordable Care Act now that the Mueller inquiry is over. Colbert said it was a poor strategic decision at best. “He has been rope-a-dopin’ this Mueller thing, O.K., for two years — and now he finally has a chance to get on America’s good side. Step 1: Take away everyone’s health care.” — STEPHEN COLBERT “Mr. Trump! You’ve just been cleared of collusion. What are you going to do now? [impersonating Trump] ‘I’m gonna roll a diabetic off a cliff. C’mon sweetness, let’s go.’” — STEPHEN COLBERT “He’s a concert pianist and speaks seven languages — including Norwegian, which he learned just so that he could read Norwegian books. Compare that to America’s current president, who has read zero books and is fluent in zero languages.” — TREVOR NOAH, on the Democratic presidential candidate Pete Buttigieg “There was a new survey, and according to this survey, last year, in 2018, Americans made almost $40 billion worth of purchases while drunk. More than a quarter of American adults, about 53 million people, said they bought things while under the influence. Which could explain the popularity of Uggs.” — JIMMY KIMMEL As Jimmy Kimmel continues to troll Gonzaga University, a few academic officials from the school visited his show. Bee also offered a lengthy takedown of Mick Mulvaney, the White House chief of staff. Marsai Martin, who first starred in “Black-ish” when she was just 10 years old, has a new movie in theaters: “Little,” in which a despotic boss is transformed into a 13-year-old version of herself. Martin will visit “Jimmy Kimmel Live!” on Thursday to talk about her budding career and new film. Here’s a loving look back at “10 Things I Hate About You,” one of the most enduring romantic comedies of the 1990s, on the 20th anniversary of its release, featuring interviews with some of its stars, its director and others. Plus, Ideas for What to Watch Tonight: The 50 Best Movies on Netflix Right Now The 25 Best Films of the 21st Century The Best Movies on Amazon Prime Video Right Now

Supported by Best of Late Night By Giovanni Russonello Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox. Senator Mike Lee of Utah on Wednesday gave a speech on the Senate floor that was sarcastic to the point of absurdity. In a sendup of the Green New Deal, a sweeping climate proposal put forward by left-wing Democrats, Lee used an image of Luke Skywalker riding a Tauntaun in a “Star Wars” film, as well as a painting of President Ronald Reagan on a dinosaur. Stephen Colbert mimicked his technique, breaking out an easel, pictures and his own “Star Wars” reference. “Senator Lee, you’re the most embarrassing part of a storied American institution. You, sir, are the Jar Jar Binks of the Senate,” he said, unveiling a picture of the reviled character. Later, Colbert flipped to an image of Mr. T firing a crossbow while riding on the back of a giant sloth. “Why, you ask?” he said. “Because my graphics team went and got high.” Samantha Bee analyzed the fallout this week from the release of Attorney General William P. Barr’s letter summarizing the Mueller report. She was particularly bothered by a letter sent by President Trump’s 2020 campaign to TV producers, suggesting that they should refuse to bring on their shows certain Democrats who endorsed the idea that Trump had colluded with Russia’s election interference. “Wow. Usually when he writes to TV producers it’s to ask them to hide footage of him saying the N-word.” — SAMANTHA BEE She also accused Barr of omitting some important information: “Mueller was tasked with discovering whether Trump or his circle were under the sway of a foreign adversary, and we still have no idea what he found. Barr didn’t mention it at all — which is something, considering that he already quoted the Mueller report as selectively as a review on the poster for a [expletive] movie. ‘“Transformers 8” is a giant piece of … movie!’” — SAMANTHA BEE Colbert poked fun at Trump for doubling down on his fight against the Affordable Care Act now that the Mueller inquiry is over. Colbert said it was a poor strategic decision at best. “He has been rope-a-dopin’ this Mueller thing, O.K., for two years — and now he finally has a chance to get on America’s good side. Step 1: Take away everyone’s health care.” — STEPHEN COLBERT “Mr. Trump! You’ve just been cleared of collusion. What are you going to do now? [impersonating Trump] ‘I’m gonna roll a diabetic off a cliff. C’mon sweetness, let’s go.’” — STEPHEN COLBERT “He’s a concert pianist and speaks seven languages — including Norwegian, which he learned just so that he could read Norwegian books. Compare that to America’s current president, who has read zero books and is fluent in zero languages.” — TREVOR NOAH, on the Democratic presidential candidate Pete Buttigieg “There was a new survey, and according to this survey, last year, in 2018, Americans made almost $40 billion worth of purchases while drunk. More than a quarter of American adults, about 53 million people, said they bought things while under the influence. Which could explain the popularity of Uggs.” — JIMMY KIMMEL As Jimmy Kimmel continues to troll Gonzaga University, a few academic officials from the school visited his show. Bee also offered a lengthy takedown of Mick Mulvaney, the White House chief of staff. Marsai Martin, who first starred in “Black-ish” when she was just 10 years old, has a new movie in theaters: “Little,” in which a despotic boss is transformed into a 13-year-old version of herself. Martin will visit “Jimmy Kimmel Live!” on Thursday to talk about her budding career and new film. Here’s a loving look back at “10 Things I Hate About You,” one of the most enduring romantic comedies of the 1990s, on the 20th anniversary of its release, featuring interviews with some of its stars, its director and others. Plus, Ideas for What to Watch Tonight: The 50 Best Movies on Netflix Right Now The 25 Best Films of the 21st Century The Best Movies on Amazon Prime Video Right NowSupported by By Thomas Kaplan WASHINGTON — The two presidential candidates who entered 2019 with the largest bases of supporters — President Trump and Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont — led the 2020 field in fund-raising in the first quarter of the year. Presidential candidates were under a Monday night deadline to file their fund-raising numbers for the first three months of 2019. The Trump campaign reported bringing in about $30 million in the quarter, while Mr. Sanders’s campaign  raised about $18 million in the quarter. Other Democrats reporting large hauls to the Federal Election Commission included Senator Kamala Harris of California, whose campaign raised about $12 million, and former Representative Beto O’Rourke of Texas, whose campaign raised more than $9 million. Presidential candidates offered a long-awaited rundown of their campaign finances, an early barometer of strength and staying power in the huge Democratic field. The campaign of Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Ind., reported that it had raised $7.1 million in the quarter but spent modestly. His campaign ended the period with $6.4 million in cash on hand. [Some candidates have also released their tax returns in recent days. See how they compare.] The fund-raising reports provide an early measure of how the Democratic candidates are picking up support in a crowded field. Many campaigns had already announced their overall fund-raising totals for the quarter, but the reports filed before Monday night’s deadline offered details about the money that the campaigns took in and spent in the first three months of the year. The deadline also highlighted the steep financial challenge facing some lesser-known candidates. Gov. Jay Inslee of Washington raised about $2.3 million in the quarter, while former Gov. John Hickenlooper of Colorado raised $2 million. Only 10 percent of Mr. Hickenlooper’s total came from donors giving $200 or less. Both candidates entered the race in early March. Julián Castro, the former housing secretary, raised about $1.1 million. Another Democrat who is trying to gain more attention, former Representative John Delaney of Maryland, has plenty of money — but as a result of his own wealth, not an outpouring of donations. Mr. Delaney provided $11.7 million in loans to his campaign during the first three months of the year, and his campaign ended the quarter with $10.6 million in cash on hand. [Here are the nine biggest takeaways from the 2020 money race so far.] Shane Goldmacher contributed reporting from New York. Follow Thomas Kaplan and Shane Goldmacher on Twitter: @thomaskaplan and @ShaneGoldmacher.    

Supported by By Thomas Kaplan WASHINGTON — The two presidential candidates who entered 2019 with the largest bases of supporters — President Trump and Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont — led the 2020 field in fund-raising in the first quarter of the year. Presidential candidates were under a Monday night deadline to file their fund-raising numbers for the first three months of 2019. The Trump campaign reported bringing in about $30 million in the quarter, while Mr. Sanders’s campaign  raised about $18 million in the quarter. Other Democrats reporting large hauls to the Federal Election Commission included Senator Kamala Harris of California, whose campaign raised about $12 million, and former Representative Beto O’Rourke of Texas, whose campaign raised more than $9 million. Presidential candidates offered a long-awaited rundown of their campaign finances, an early barometer of strength and staying power in the huge Democratic field. The campaign of Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Ind., reported that it had raised $7.1 million in the quarter but spent modestly. His campaign ended the period with $6.4 million in cash on hand. [Some candidates have also released their tax returns in recent days. See how they compare.] The fund-raising reports provide an early measure of how the Democratic candidates are picking up support in a crowded field. Many campaigns had already announced their overall fund-raising totals for the quarter, but the reports filed before Monday night’s deadline offered details about the money that the campaigns took in and spent in the first three months of the year. The deadline also highlighted the steep financial challenge facing some lesser-known candidates. Gov. Jay Inslee of Washington raised about $2.3 million in the quarter, while former Gov. John Hickenlooper of Colorado raised $2 million. Only 10 percent of Mr. Hickenlooper’s total came from donors giving $200 or less. Both candidates entered the race in early March. Julián Castro, the former housing secretary, raised about $1.1 million. Another Democrat who is trying to gain more attention, former Representative John Delaney of Maryland, has plenty of money — but as a result of his own wealth, not an outpouring of donations. Mr. Delaney provided $11.7 million in loans to his campaign during the first three months of the year, and his campaign ended the quarter with $10.6 million in cash on hand. [Here are the nine biggest takeaways from the 2020 money race so far.] Shane Goldmacher contributed reporting from New York. Follow Thomas Kaplan and Shane Goldmacher on Twitter: @thomaskaplan and @ShaneGoldmacher.    Supported by By Shane Goldmacher Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey announced on Sunday that his presidential campaign had raised more than $5 million in the first quarter of the year. Mr. Booker’s total is among the smallest fund-raising figures to be voluntarily disclosed so far by a Democratic candidate, though it is still expected to outpace others; nearly a dozen candidates have yet to announce their first-quarter numbers. Six candidates have released their totals: Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont said he raised $18.2 million; Senator Kamala Harris of California raised more than $12 million; former Representative Beto O’Rourke raised $9.4 million; and Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Ind., raised $7 million. Mr. Booker outpaced only the political newcomer Andrew Yang, who said he raised $1.7 million. In addition to the money he raised, Mr. Booker has $4.1 million in his Senate campaign account that he is eligible to transfer to a presidential campaign. [Here’s a look at “baby bonds,” a signature proposal of Mr. Booker’s campaign.] Mr. Booker declined to disclose how many people had contributed to his campaign or the number of contributions he received. While Mr. Booker has long been a talented fund-raiser, he entered the 2020 race with far fewer small donors than some of his leading competitors. “Money is important, but it is definitely not going to be the barometer on which people make their decision on who is going to be the next president of the United States,” Mr. Booker said on Sunday, after a town hall event in Londonderry, N.H. “And I’m happy that we have the resources we need to be in this race.” In a sign of the size of advantage that Mr. Sanders and Mr. O’Rourke had entering the race, they each raised about $6 million in their first 24 hours as candidates — more than Mr. Booker did in his first two months, even as he traveled the country to headline fund-raisers. Mr. Booker’s campaign did say that 82 percent of those who gave since he entered the race in February were new contributors. He also provided the size of the average online donation, $34, but not an overall average. The full fund-raising reports are due on April 15, where candidates cannot selectively pick statistics to make their campaigns appear more formidable. Nick Corasaniti contributed reporting from Londonderry, N.H. 

Supported by By Shane Goldmacher Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey announced on Sunday that his presidential campaign had raised more than $5 million in the first quarter of the year. Mr. Booker’s total is among the smallest fund-raising figures to be voluntarily disclosed so far by a Democratic candidate, though it is still expected to outpace others; nearly a dozen candidates have yet to announce their first-quarter numbers. Six candidates have released their totals: Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont said he raised $18.2 million; Senator Kamala Harris of California raised more than $12 million; former Representative Beto O’Rourke raised $9.4 million; and Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Ind., raised $7 million. Mr. Booker outpaced only the political newcomer Andrew Yang, who said he raised $1.7 million. In addition to the money he raised, Mr. Booker has $4.1 million in his Senate campaign account that he is eligible to transfer to a presidential campaign. [Here’s a look at “baby bonds,” a signature proposal of Mr. Booker’s campaign.] Mr. Booker declined to disclose how many people had contributed to his campaign or the number of contributions he received. While Mr. Booker has long been a talented fund-raiser, he entered the 2020 race with far fewer small donors than some of his leading competitors. “Money is important, but it is definitely not going to be the barometer on which people make their decision on who is going to be the next president of the United States,” Mr. Booker said on Sunday, after a town hall event in Londonderry, N.H. “And I’m happy that we have the resources we need to be in this race.” In a sign of the size of advantage that Mr. Sanders and Mr. O’Rourke had entering the race, they each raised about $6 million in their first 24 hours as candidates — more than Mr. Booker did in his first two months, even as he traveled the country to headline fund-raisers. Mr. Booker’s campaign did say that 82 percent of those who gave since he entered the race in February were new contributors. He also provided the size of the average online donation, $34, but not an overall average. The full fund-raising reports are due on April 15, where candidates cannot selectively pick statistics to make their campaigns appear more formidable. Nick Corasaniti contributed reporting from Londonderry, N.H. Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — The Latest on first-quarter fundraising totals posted by Democratic presidential candidates (all times local): 1 a.m. Democratic presidential candidates raised about $75 million during the first quarter of the 2020 election, a lackluster sum spread out across more than a dozen campaigns that signals a drawn-out battle likely lies ahead. Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders led the field by raising $18 million while California Sen. Kamala Harris came in second with $12 million. Former Texas Rep. Beto O'Rourke came in third with $9.3 million, followed by South Bend, Indiana, Mayor Pete Buttigieg, who capitalized on a flurry of publicity to raise $7 million. The rest of the field of more than a dozen candidates raised $6 million or less apiece. Democratic candidates not only lag behind President Donald Trump, who raised $30 million, but took in less than the party did during the same period in the 2008 election. ___ 6:40 p.m. Democratic presidential hopefuls collectively raised over $70 million during the first fundraising quarter of the 2020 election cycle, significantly less than they did the last time the party had a wide open primary. For example, Democratic candidates in the 2008 election raised about $81 million during the first quarter. The lackluster fundraising by a crowded field of more than a dozen contenders is a sign that a drawn-out primary battle lies ahead. The money troubles come as many donors sit on the sidelines to see how the contest unfolds. Democrats' fundraising haul also pales in comparison to the $30 million President Donald Trump alone raised during the first quarter. ___ 11:55 a.m. The crowded field of 2020 Democratic presidential candidates is showing early signs of money trouble as donors sit on the sidelines to see how the contest unfolds, signaling a drawn-out primary battle lies ahead. The Democratic campaign comes into greater focus Monday as declared White House hopefuls report their first quarter fundraising totals. Early glimpses provided by nine of the more than a dozen declared candidates show they are raising less money than in previous cycles. Totals released by those campaigns show Democrats collectively raised about $66 million since January. That's less than the $81 million Democrats raised during the same period in 2007, the last time the party had a wide open primary. It pales in comparison to the $30 million President Donald Trump raised during the first quarter.

Supported by By The Associated Press WASHINGTON — The Latest on first-quarter fundraising totals posted by Democratic presidential candidates (all times local): 1 a.m. Democratic presidential candidates raised about $75 million during the first quarter of the 2020 election, a lackluster sum spread out across more than a dozen campaigns that signals a drawn-out battle likely lies ahead. Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders led the field by raising $18 million while California Sen. Kamala Harris came in second with $12 million. Former Texas Rep. Beto O'Rourke came in third with $9.3 million, followed by South Bend, Indiana, Mayor Pete Buttigieg, who capitalized on a flurry of publicity to raise $7 million. The rest of the field of more than a dozen candidates raised $6 million or less apiece. Democratic candidates not only lag behind President Donald Trump, who raised $30 million, but took in less than the party did during the same period in the 2008 election. ___ 6:40 p.m. Democratic presidential hopefuls collectively raised over $70 million during the first fundraising quarter of the 2020 election cycle, significantly less than they did the last time the party had a wide open primary. For example, Democratic candidates in the 2008 election raised about $81 million during the first quarter. The lackluster fundraising by a crowded field of more than a dozen contenders is a sign that a drawn-out primary battle lies ahead. The money troubles come as many donors sit on the sidelines to see how the contest unfolds. Democrats' fundraising haul also pales in comparison to the $30 million President Donald Trump alone raised during the first quarter. ___ 11:55 a.m. The crowded field of 2020 Democratic presidential candidates is showing early signs of money trouble as donors sit on the sidelines to see how the contest unfolds, signaling a drawn-out primary battle lies ahead. The Democratic campaign comes into greater focus Monday as declared White House hopefuls report their first quarter fundraising totals. Early glimpses provided by nine of the more than a dozen declared candidates show they are raising less money than in previous cycles. Totals released by those campaigns show Democrats collectively raised about $66 million since January. That's less than the $81 million Democrats raised during the same period in 2007, the last time the party had a wide open primary. It pales in comparison to the $30 million President Donald Trump raised during the first quarter.Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — U.S. Senator Elizabeth Warren's presidential campaign raised $6 million in the first quarter of 2019, lagging behind Democratic rivals after swearing off expensive fundraising events, her campaign said on Wednesday. Warren, who had a full three months to fundraise, trails Senators Bernie Sanders, who raised $18 million in six weeks, and Kamala Harris, who raised $12 million in about two months. Warren's campaign in an email sent on Wednesday afternoon to supporters acknowledged that she is behind other well-known Democrats, but argued she enjoys grassroots support.  "We don't have to match other candidates dollar for dollar, but we do need a strong enough grassroots base to be able to keep Elizabeth’s voice front and center in this race," Roger Lau, Warren's campaign manager, said in the email to supporters. The Massachusetts senator announced in February that she would no longer attend expensive fundraising events like dinners and receptions, which may have contributed to her being outraised by some of her rivals. Candidates traditionally use fundraisers to collect large donation checks.  Her campaign said the average donation was $28.  Candidates are required by law to track and report all campaign donations. Donations collected between Jan. 1 and March 31 must be disclosed by April 15. Candidates are limited to collecting $2,800 from a single donor during the primary process.  The April fundraising deadline is one of the first big tests for the more than 15 Democrats vying for their party's nomination to challenge Republican President Donald Trump in the 2020 election. Also out-pacing Warren was Beto O’Rourke, the former U.S congressman from Texas who raised $9.4 million in the first 18 days, his campaign said.  Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Indiana, who recently saw a bump in opinion polls but is still considered a long-shot, announced last week that he had raised $7 million during the first quarter.  Warren raised more than two other members of the Senate vying for the nomination. Amy Klobuchar and Cory Booker each raised about $5 million. Fundraising is an early way to prove to donors and potential supporters that a candidate is viable.  Grassroots fundraising is also one of the qualifying criteria for the Democratic primary debates. Candidates can qualify if they have 65,000 unique donors, along with a minimum of 200 donors per state in at least 20 states. Warren's campaign said her donations came from 135,000 individuals.   (Reporting by Ginger Gibson; Editing by Bill Berkrot)

Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — U.S. Senator Elizabeth Warren's presidential campaign raised $6 million in the first quarter of 2019, lagging behind Democratic rivals after swearing off expensive fundraising events, her campaign said on Wednesday. Warren, who had a full three months to fundraise, trails Senators Bernie Sanders, who raised $18 million in six weeks, and Kamala Harris, who raised $12 million in about two months. Warren's campaign in an email sent on Wednesday afternoon to supporters acknowledged that she is behind other well-known Democrats, but argued she enjoys grassroots support.  "We don't have to match other candidates dollar for dollar, but we do need a strong enough grassroots base to be able to keep Elizabeth’s voice front and center in this race," Roger Lau, Warren's campaign manager, said in the email to supporters. The Massachusetts senator announced in February that she would no longer attend expensive fundraising events like dinners and receptions, which may have contributed to her being outraised by some of her rivals. Candidates traditionally use fundraisers to collect large donation checks.  Her campaign said the average donation was $28.  Candidates are required by law to track and report all campaign donations. Donations collected between Jan. 1 and March 31 must be disclosed by April 15. Candidates are limited to collecting $2,800 from a single donor during the primary process.  The April fundraising deadline is one of the first big tests for the more than 15 Democrats vying for their party's nomination to challenge Republican President Donald Trump in the 2020 election. Also out-pacing Warren was Beto O’Rourke, the former U.S congressman from Texas who raised $9.4 million in the first 18 days, his campaign said.  Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Indiana, who recently saw a bump in opinion polls but is still considered a long-shot, announced last week that he had raised $7 million during the first quarter.  Warren raised more than two other members of the Senate vying for the nomination. Amy Klobuchar and Cory Booker each raised about $5 million. Fundraising is an early way to prove to donors and potential supporters that a candidate is viable.  Grassroots fundraising is also one of the qualifying criteria for the Democratic primary debates. Candidates can qualify if they have 65,000 unique donors, along with a minimum of 200 donors per state in at least 20 states. Warren's campaign said her donations came from 135,000 individuals.   (Reporting by Ginger Gibson; Editing by Bill Berkrot)Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Eric Swalwell said on Monday he would seek the Democratic nomination for president, joining a crowded field seeking to take on Republican Donald Trump in the 2020 election. Swalwell, a third-term congressman from a California district south of San Francisco, made the announcement during a taping of CBS's "The Late Show with Stephen Colbert," which airs later on Monday. The program tweeted a clip of Swalwell saying he was running for president. Swalwell said tackling student debt and gun violence were among the reasons he jumped into the Democratic primary race. "None of that is going to change until we get a leader who is willing to go big on the issues we take on, be bold in the solutions we offer, and do good in the way that we govern. I'm ready to solve these problems. I'm running for president," Swalwell said. Swalwell, 38, is now among the youngest candidates vying for the 2020 Democratic nomination, along with Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Indiana, and Representative Tulsi Gabbard from Hawaii, both of whom are 37. Thirty-five is the minimum age to serve as U.S. president. Swalwell cited his work on the House Intelligence Committee and his founding of Future Forum, a group of more than 25 Democratic lawmakers that visits universities and community colleges to discuss issues important to millennial voters like student loan debt and climate change, among the reasons he would be a qualified White House candidate. In his first House campaign, Swalwell defeated a Democratic incumbent who had been in office since 1973, seven years before Swalwell was born. Since joining Congress, Swalwell has advocated for raising the cap on the portion of salary that is subject to the Social Security payroll tax. He has also proposed a "mobile Congress" that would allow lawmakers to cast votes remotely from their districts. Swalwell grew up in Iowa and California. He attended Campbell University in North Carolina on a soccer scholarship for two years before transferring to the University of Maryland, where he earned his bachelor's and law degrees. Other House lawmakers in the Democratic race include Representative Tim Ryan of Ohio, who announced his bid last week. Former Representative Beto O'Rourke from Texas is also a contender. U.S. senators vying for the Democratic presidential nomination include Kamala Harris of California, Bernie Sanders of Vermont, Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, Cory Booker of New Jersey, Kirsten Gillibrand of New York and Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota.  (Reporting by Amanda Becker, Makini Brice and Eric Beech; Editing by David Alexander)

Supported by By Reuters WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Eric Swalwell said on Monday he would seek the Democratic nomination for president, joining a crowded field seeking to take on Republican Donald Trump in the 2020 election. Swalwell, a third-term congressman from a California district south of San Francisco, made the announcement during a taping of CBS's "The Late Show with Stephen Colbert," which airs later on Monday. The program tweeted a clip of Swalwell saying he was running for president. Swalwell said tackling student debt and gun violence were among the reasons he jumped into the Democratic primary race. "None of that is going to change until we get a leader who is willing to go big on the issues we take on, be bold in the solutions we offer, and do good in the way that we govern. I'm ready to solve these problems. I'm running for president," Swalwell said. Swalwell, 38, is now among the youngest candidates vying for the 2020 Democratic nomination, along with Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Indiana, and Representative Tulsi Gabbard from Hawaii, both of whom are 37. Thirty-five is the minimum age to serve as U.S. president. Swalwell cited his work on the House Intelligence Committee and his founding of Future Forum, a group of more than 25 Democratic lawmakers that visits universities and community colleges to discuss issues important to millennial voters like student loan debt and climate change, among the reasons he would be a qualified White House candidate. In his first House campaign, Swalwell defeated a Democratic incumbent who had been in office since 1973, seven years before Swalwell was born. Since joining Congress, Swalwell has advocated for raising the cap on the portion of salary that is subject to the Social Security payroll tax. He has also proposed a "mobile Congress" that would allow lawmakers to cast votes remotely from their districts. Swalwell grew up in Iowa and California. He attended Campbell University in North Carolina on a soccer scholarship for two years before transferring to the University of Maryland, where he earned his bachelor's and law degrees. Other House lawmakers in the Democratic race include Representative Tim Ryan of Ohio, who announced his bid last week. Former Representative Beto O'Rourke from Texas is also a contender. U.S. senators vying for the Democratic presidential nomination include Kamala Harris of California, Bernie Sanders of Vermont, Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, Cory Booker of New Jersey, Kirsten Gillibrand of New York and Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota.  (Reporting by Amanda Becker, Makini Brice and Eric Beech; Editing by David Alexander)Supported by By Thomas Kaplan and Shane Goldmacher WASHINGTON — Senator Kirsten Gillibrand’s presidential campaign raised $3 million in the first quarter of the year, a spokeswoman said on Sunday, a disappointing sum that ranked her last among the six senators currently running for president. Ms. Gillibrand, New York’s Democratic junior senator, has made running as a woman a central theme of her candidacy, and nearly two-thirds of the campaign’s donors were women, said the spokeswoman, Meredith Kelly. Ms. Kelly did not disclose how many donors the campaign had, but she said that 92 percent of contributions were under $200. Given her modest haul so far, Ms. Gillibrand will likely need to rely heavily upon the roughly $10 million in campaign funds she had left over after her Senate re-election bid last year. Only a few 2020 candidates had such a large cash stockpile to supplement their presidential fund-raising. Ms. Gillibrand transferred $9.6 million from her Senate account to her presidential campaign, and the campaign ended the quarter with $10.2 million in cash on hand, Ms. Kelly said. In a memo on Sunday, Ms. Gillibrand’s campaign suggested that her fund-raising had been hampered by a continuing backlash to her decision in 2017 to call for the resignation of a fellow Democratic senator, Al Franken of Minnesota, over sexual harassment allegations. “There’s no question that the first quarter was adversely impacted by certain establishment donors — and many online — who continue to punish Kirsten for standing up for her values and for women,” the memo, which was obtained by The New York Times, said. Monday is the deadline for candidates to report their first-quarter fund-raising to the Federal Election Commission, and the announcement by Ms. Gillibrand’s campaign came after many of her rivals had already revealed their fund-raising totals. Ms. Gillibrand’s total for the first quarter ranks, at best, eighth among 2020 Democrats. Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont leads the candidates with $18.2 million raised in the quarter, followed by Senator Kamala Harris of California with $12 million, former Representative Beto O’Rourke of Texas with $9.4 million and Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Ind., with more than $7 million, according to figures announced by the campaigns. Ms. Gillibrand also trails the other senators in the race who are not toward the top of the Democratic field in fund-raising. Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts raised more than $6 million, Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota raised more than $5.2 million and Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey raised more than $5 million, their campaigns have said. Ms. Gillibrand’s total, collected over a period of two and a half months, is roughly half of what Mr. Sanders and Mr. O’Rourke each raised in the first 24 hours of their presidential bids, according to their campaigns. Thomas Kaplan reported from Washington, and Shane Goldmacher from New York. Follow Thomas Kaplan and Shane Goldmacher on Twitter: @thomaskaplan and @ShaneGoldmacher.  

Supported by By Thomas Kaplan and Shane Goldmacher WASHINGTON — Senator Kirsten Gillibrand’s presidential campaign raised $3 million in the first quarter of the year, a spokeswoman said on Sunday, a disappointing sum that ranked her last among the six senators currently running for president. Ms. Gillibrand, New York’s Democratic junior senator, has made running as a woman a central theme of her candidacy, and nearly two-thirds of the campaign’s donors were women, said the spokeswoman, Meredith Kelly. Ms. Kelly did not disclose how many donors the campaign had, but she said that 92 percent of contributions were under $200. Given her modest haul so far, Ms. Gillibrand will likely need to rely heavily upon the roughly $10 million in campaign funds she had left over after her Senate re-election bid last year. Only a few 2020 candidates had such a large cash stockpile to supplement their presidential fund-raising. Ms. Gillibrand transferred $9.6 million from her Senate account to her presidential campaign, and the campaign ended the quarter with $10.2 million in cash on hand, Ms. Kelly said. In a memo on Sunday, Ms. Gillibrand’s campaign suggested that her fund-raising had been hampered by a continuing backlash to her decision in 2017 to call for the resignation of a fellow Democratic senator, Al Franken of Minnesota, over sexual harassment allegations. “There’s no question that the first quarter was adversely impacted by certain establishment donors — and many online — who continue to punish Kirsten for standing up for her values and for women,” the memo, which was obtained by The New York Times, said. Monday is the deadline for candidates to report their first-quarter fund-raising to the Federal Election Commission, and the announcement by Ms. Gillibrand’s campaign came after many of her rivals had already revealed their fund-raising totals. Ms. Gillibrand’s total for the first quarter ranks, at best, eighth among 2020 Democrats. Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont leads the candidates with $18.2 million raised in the quarter, followed by Senator Kamala Harris of California with $12 million, former Representative Beto O’Rourke of Texas with $9.4 million and Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Ind., with more than $7 million, according to figures announced by the campaigns. Ms. Gillibrand also trails the other senators in the race who are not toward the top of the Democratic field in fund-raising. Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts raised more than $6 million, Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota raised more than $5.2 million and Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey raised more than $5 million, their campaigns have said. Ms. Gillibrand’s total, collected over a period of two and a half months, is roughly half of what Mr. Sanders and Mr. O’Rourke each raised in the first 24 hours of their presidential bids, according to their campaigns. Thomas Kaplan reported from Washington, and Shane Goldmacher from New York. Follow Thomas Kaplan and Shane Goldmacher on Twitter: @thomaskaplan and @ShaneGoldmacher.  Supported by Good Friday morning. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today. _____________________ • The Federal Reserve has halted rate increases. Tax cuts and tariffs have taken hold. Attempts to rewrite the global rules of trade are underway. President Trump got what he wanted on the economy — but it may not last, and the president must now prove the naysayers wrong about the future. • The first House Intelligence Committee hearing since the special counsel completed his report began with Republicans demanding the resignation of Adam B. Schiff, the committee’s chairman. It only went downhill from there. • Speaking of the special counsel’s report: It was more than 300 pages long, the Justice Department acknowledged on Thursday, raising more questions about Attorney General William P. Barr’s four-page summary. • The Supreme Court declined to block a federal ban on bump stocks — the attachments that turn semiautomatic guns to fully automatic — after an appeal from gun owners. • Senators remain at an impasse over how much disaster relief should be given to Puerto Rico, leaving billions of dollars in aid for recovery efforts across the country in limbo ahead of a vote on Monday. • The Department of Housing and Urban Development sued Facebook, arguing that the company violated the federal Fair Housing Act by limiting who sees ads based on characteristics like race, religion and national origin. • Mr. Trump criticized Mexico, El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras on Thursday for accepting aid from the United States but doing “nothing” in return. The statement came a day after his Homeland Security secretary struck an agreement with those same countries to strengthen security at the border. • Pete Buttigieg may have a challenging last name and an unconventional résumé. But he’s drawing big crowds and has jumped to third place in a poll of Iowa voters. • Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota unveiled her first policy plan: spending a trillion dollars in federal funds to upgrade the country’s infrastructure. • There are few more important groups of Democratic primary voters than black women in the South, and they’ll have more weight than ever this year. Kamala Harris and Beto O’Rourke have different plans to capture their attention. • The Trump administration is forcing a Chinese company to sell its stake in the gay dating app Grindr over national security concerns. It’s the first case where the United States asserted that foreign control of a social media app could have national security implications. • In a case that exposed the government’s embarrassing failure to secure its secrets, a 54-year-old former National Security Agency contractor pleaded guilty to taking secret documents home in a deal likely to put him in prison for nine years. _____________________ Today’s On Politics briefing was compiled by Isabella Grullón Paz in New York. Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.

Supported by Good Friday morning. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today. _____________________ • The Federal Reserve has halted rate increases. Tax cuts and tariffs have taken hold. Attempts to rewrite the global rules of trade are underway. President Trump got what he wanted on the economy — but it may not last, and the president must now prove the naysayers wrong about the future. • The first House Intelligence Committee hearing since the special counsel completed his report began with Republicans demanding the resignation of Adam B. Schiff, the committee’s chairman. It only went downhill from there. • Speaking of the special counsel’s report: It was more than 300 pages long, the Justice Department acknowledged on Thursday, raising more questions about Attorney General William P. Barr’s four-page summary. • The Supreme Court declined to block a federal ban on bump stocks — the attachments that turn semiautomatic guns to fully automatic — after an appeal from gun owners. • Senators remain at an impasse over how much disaster relief should be given to Puerto Rico, leaving billions of dollars in aid for recovery efforts across the country in limbo ahead of a vote on Monday. • The Department of Housing and Urban Development sued Facebook, arguing that the company violated the federal Fair Housing Act by limiting who sees ads based on characteristics like race, religion and national origin. • Mr. Trump criticized Mexico, El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras on Thursday for accepting aid from the United States but doing “nothing” in return. The statement came a day after his Homeland Security secretary struck an agreement with those same countries to strengthen security at the border. • Pete Buttigieg may have a challenging last name and an unconventional résumé. But he’s drawing big crowds and has jumped to third place in a poll of Iowa voters. • Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota unveiled her first policy plan: spending a trillion dollars in federal funds to upgrade the country’s infrastructure. • There are few more important groups of Democratic primary voters than black women in the South, and they’ll have more weight than ever this year. Kamala Harris and Beto O’Rourke have different plans to capture their attention. • The Trump administration is forcing a Chinese company to sell its stake in the gay dating app Grindr over national security concerns. It’s the first case where the United States asserted that foreign control of a social media app could have national security implications. • In a case that exposed the government’s embarrassing failure to secure its secrets, a 54-year-old former National Security Agency contractor pleaded guilty to taking secret documents home in a deal likely to put him in prison for nine years. _____________________ Today’s On Politics briefing was compiled by Isabella Grullón Paz in New York. Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.Supported by By The Associated Press NEW YORK — Sen. Amy Klobuchar agreed on Wednesday to become the second Democratic presidential candidate to hold a town hall meeting on Fox News Channel, and others are soon to follow. Sen. Bernie Sanders was the first to venture onto Fox this week. His Monday town hall reached 2.55 million viewers, the biggest audience of any such event in the 2020 campaign cycle, despite not being aired in the prime time hours when most people are available. One of Fox News' most loyal viewers, President Donald Trump, indicated on Twitter that he wasn't happy seeing Sanders on his screen. Fox says it's looking forward to hosting Klobuchar's next town hall. Meanwhile, Pete Buttigieg's campaign confirmed that it is in talks with Fox about a town hall. Jenn Fiore, an aide to Julian Castro, said that campaign is in the process of scheduling one. Sen. Cory Booker also said he's considering one. During an appearance in Fredericksburg, Virginia, on Wednesday, Beto O'Rourke said that while he disagrees with the practices of Fox News, he will appear on the network. He said he wasn't sure whether it would be on a town hall or some other program. "I don't write anybody off in this country for their choice of cable programming," O'Rourke said. The Democrats have had to weigh possibly angering a liberal base that holds Fox News in contempt versus reaching a large audience, many of whom wouldn't be likely to see them in action elsewhere. Before the newfound interest, Fox News faced the prospect of watching the Democratic nomination process from the sidelines. The Democratic National Committee announced in February, and reaffirmed this week, that it would not hold any of its upcoming candidate debates on the network. On Twitter, Trump has seemed like a spurned man. He tweeted Tuesday that it seemed "very strange" to see Sanders on Fox. Trump, who rarely complains about Fox, also said that many of his supporters couldn't get into the Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, event that was "stuffed" with Sanders fans. Fox has said it reached out to various political and local groups in the Bethlehem area to help fill the audience for the Sanders town hall. Besides the president, Fox News also has to wonder how the large number of his fans in its audience will take to the Democratic visits. The online activists Lynnette Hardaway and Rochelle Richardson, who often appear as commentators on Fox under the name Diamond and Silk, tweeted that it was "sickening to see Bernie Sanders on a Fox News town hall disparaging our president." Fox did receive praise for its handling of the Sanders town hall from some unlikely sources, including panelists on MSNBC's "Morning Joe," which has been relentless in its criticism of Trump. The Klobuchar town hall will be held May 8 in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The hour-long event will have a similar blueprint to Sanders' session: Bret Baier and Martha MacCallum will be the anchors, and it will start at 6:30 p.m. Eastern time. ____ Associated Press writers Alexandra Jaffe in Des Moines, Iowa, and Will Weissert in Fredericksburg, Virginia, contributed to this report.

Supported by By The Associated Press NEW YORK — Sen. Amy Klobuchar agreed on Wednesday to become the second Democratic presidential candidate to hold a town hall meeting on Fox News Channel, and others are soon to follow. Sen. Bernie Sanders was the first to venture onto Fox this week. His Monday town hall reached 2.55 million viewers, the biggest audience of any such event in the 2020 campaign cycle, despite not being aired in the prime time hours when most people are available. One of Fox News' most loyal viewers, President Donald Trump, indicated on Twitter that he wasn't happy seeing Sanders on his screen. Fox says it's looking forward to hosting Klobuchar's next town hall. Meanwhile, Pete Buttigieg's campaign confirmed that it is in talks with Fox about a town hall. Jenn Fiore, an aide to Julian Castro, said that campaign is in the process of scheduling one. Sen. Cory Booker also said he's considering one. During an appearance in Fredericksburg, Virginia, on Wednesday, Beto O'Rourke said that while he disagrees with the practices of Fox News, he will appear on the network. He said he wasn't sure whether it would be on a town hall or some other program. "I don't write anybody off in this country for their choice of cable programming," O'Rourke said. The Democrats have had to weigh possibly angering a liberal base that holds Fox News in contempt versus reaching a large audience, many of whom wouldn't be likely to see them in action elsewhere. Before the newfound interest, Fox News faced the prospect of watching the Democratic nomination process from the sidelines. The Democratic National Committee announced in February, and reaffirmed this week, that it would not hold any of its upcoming candidate debates on the network. On Twitter, Trump has seemed like a spurned man. He tweeted Tuesday that it seemed "very strange" to see Sanders on Fox. Trump, who rarely complains about Fox, also said that many of his supporters couldn't get into the Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, event that was "stuffed" with Sanders fans. Fox has said it reached out to various political and local groups in the Bethlehem area to help fill the audience for the Sanders town hall. Besides the president, Fox News also has to wonder how the large number of his fans in its audience will take to the Democratic visits. The online activists Lynnette Hardaway and Rochelle Richardson, who often appear as commentators on Fox under the name Diamond and Silk, tweeted that it was "sickening to see Bernie Sanders on a Fox News town hall disparaging our president." Fox did receive praise for its handling of the Sanders town hall from some unlikely sources, including panelists on MSNBC's "Morning Joe," which has been relentless in its criticism of Trump. The Klobuchar town hall will be held May 8 in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The hour-long event will have a similar blueprint to Sanders' session: Bret Baier and Martha MacCallum will be the anchors, and it will start at 6:30 p.m. Eastern time. ____ Associated Press writers Alexandra Jaffe in Des Moines, Iowa, and Will Weissert in Fredericksburg, Virginia, contributed to this report.Supported by Good Tuesday morning. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today. _____________________ • President Trump’s aggressive and unpredictable style has brought other countries to the negotiating table. But his approach is causing concern among business groups and foreign officials, with many wondering if it will undermine the United States’ traditional role in setting global trade rules, hampering economic growth in the process. • The Center for American Progress, founded by top Clinton aides and traditionally a stronghold for the Democratic Party, is facing a series of missteps that are putting the organization at odds with progressive leftists and leaving its role in the 2020 presidential race in flux. • During the 2016 campaign, Mr. Trump targeted Muslims as a supposed threat against the United States. With his recent attack on Representative Ilhan Omar of Minnesota, he has resurrected the same theme for his re-election bid. • Oil purchases by China and India are undermining American sanctions on Iran and Venezuela, but halting them could be costly. As a deadline approaches to decide if China and India should receive waivers to buy Iranian oil, the United States must choose between oil markets and diplomacy. • Attorney General William Barr will release a redacted version of the special counsel’s report on Thursday to both Congress and the public, the first step in what promises to be a protracted fight with Democratic lawmakers over how much of the document they are allowed to see. • Next week, the Supreme Court will consider whether the Trump administration may add a question about citizenship to the 2020 census. The consequences will be vast if the question is added, particularly a possible decrease in participation. • The Internal Revenue Service is facing an April 23 deadline to hand over Mr. Trump’s tax returns to House Democrats. But the president’s personal lawyer claims that the move would turn the I.R.S. into a political weapon. • The two presidential candidates who entered 2019 with the largest bases of supporters — Mr. Trump and Senator Bernie Sanders — led the 2020 field in fund-raising in the first quarter of the year. • Mr. Sanders has disclosed 10 years of tax returns, revealing that after his presidential bid, his income topped $1 million in 2016 and 2017, and put him within the top 1 percent of taxpayers. • At a town-hall-style event hosted by Fox News, Mr. Sanders rejected the idea that his newfound millionaire status was a testament to capitalism and the “American dream.” • Pete Buttigieg kicked off his 2020 campaign with a speech on what kind of president he hoped to be. Read the full text, annotated with our observations. • Senator Elizabeth Warren has unveiled a public lands proposal, pushing the environment into the 2020 election spotlight and setting the pace on policy among Democratic presidential candidates. _____________________ Today’s On Politics briefing was compiled by Margaret Kramer in New York. Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.

Supported by Good Tuesday morning. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today. _____________________ • President Trump’s aggressive and unpredictable style has brought other countries to the negotiating table. But his approach is causing concern among business groups and foreign officials, with many wondering if it will undermine the United States’ traditional role in setting global trade rules, hampering economic growth in the process. • The Center for American Progress, founded by top Clinton aides and traditionally a stronghold for the Democratic Party, is facing a series of missteps that are putting the organization at odds with progressive leftists and leaving its role in the 2020 presidential race in flux. • During the 2016 campaign, Mr. Trump targeted Muslims as a supposed threat against the United States. With his recent attack on Representative Ilhan Omar of Minnesota, he has resurrected the same theme for his re-election bid. • Oil purchases by China and India are undermining American sanctions on Iran and Venezuela, but halting them could be costly. As a deadline approaches to decide if China and India should receive waivers to buy Iranian oil, the United States must choose between oil markets and diplomacy. • Attorney General William Barr will release a redacted version of the special counsel’s report on Thursday to both Congress and the public, the first step in what promises to be a protracted fight with Democratic lawmakers over how much of the document they are allowed to see. • Next week, the Supreme Court will consider whether the Trump administration may add a question about citizenship to the 2020 census. The consequences will be vast if the question is added, particularly a possible decrease in participation. • The Internal Revenue Service is facing an April 23 deadline to hand over Mr. Trump’s tax returns to House Democrats. But the president’s personal lawyer claims that the move would turn the I.R.S. into a political weapon. • The two presidential candidates who entered 2019 with the largest bases of supporters — Mr. Trump and Senator Bernie Sanders — led the 2020 field in fund-raising in the first quarter of the year. • Mr. Sanders has disclosed 10 years of tax returns, revealing that after his presidential bid, his income topped $1 million in 2016 and 2017, and put him within the top 1 percent of taxpayers. • At a town-hall-style event hosted by Fox News, Mr. Sanders rejected the idea that his newfound millionaire status was a testament to capitalism and the “American dream.” • Pete Buttigieg kicked off his 2020 campaign with a speech on what kind of president he hoped to be. Read the full text, annotated with our observations. • Senator Elizabeth Warren has unveiled a public lands proposal, pushing the environment into the 2020 election spotlight and setting the pace on policy among Democratic presidential candidates. _____________________ Today’s On Politics briefing was compiled by Margaret Kramer in New York. Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.Supported by By Melina Delkic and Marcus Payadue (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)  Good evening. Here’s the latest. 1. A portrait of the White House’s culture of dishonesty emerged from the special counsel’s 448-page report that was released Thursday. At one juncture after another, President Trump made his troubles worse, giving in to anger and grievance and lashing out in ways that turned advisers into witnesses against him. Above, the president on Thursday. Our reporters spoke with Americans across the country, many of whom agree on one thing: They are disgusted with the country’s leaders and the breakdown of functional government. What’s next? Robert Mueller, the special counsel, has been asked to testify before the House Judiciary Committee by May 23. Read our profile of the mysterious figure behind the investigation, including his weekly Friday-night ritual of dining at a dimly lit, mostly empty restaurant near his home. He usually ordered white wine and scallops. _____ 2. In other Washington news: House Democrats issued a subpoena for the unredacted report and all of its underlying evidence, escalating a fight with the attorney general over what material Congress is entitled to see. Above, Representative Jerrold Nadler, the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee. Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary,  defended her statement that “countless” F.B.I. employees had lost faith in James Comey, the F.B.I. director fired by Mr. Trump. She told investigators for the special counsel last summer that it was a “slip of the tongue.” _____ 3. The architect who oversaw the design of the Notre-Dame cathedral’s fire safety system acknowledged that officials had miscalculated how quickly fire could spread through the cathedral. Benjamin Mouton, the architect, told The Times he was “stunned” by the speed. Fire safety experts said he should have known better. The fire alarms in the attic of Notre Dame did not immediately notify fire dispatchers. Instead, a guard at the cathedral first had to climb a steep set of stairs to the attic — a trip that would take a “fit” person six minutes to complete, Mr. Mouton said. Even a flawless response would have a built-in delay of about 20 minutes from the moment the alarm sounded until firefighters could arrive. _____ 4. In other international news: A journalist in Northern Ireland, Lyra McKee, above, was killed while covering a night of violent unrest in Londonderry. Police blamed militants opposed to British rule there, and said they were treating it as a terrorist episode. Less than 1 percent of England’s population — including aristocrats, royals and wealthy investors — owns about half of the land, according to an upcoming book. We also looked at the gaps in international law regarding cruise ships. A recent reported sexual assault case aboard a Mediterranean cruise ship highlighted that legal ambiguity when a Spanish judge released the detained suspect, saying Spain had no jurisdiction. _____ 5. Mayor Pete Buttigieg of South Bend, Ind., a rising star in the 2020 Democratic field, above, fired his city’s first black police chief in 2012. In the years that followed, the move unleashed a blizzard of claims, counterclaims and lawsuits. Why? There were allegations that the police chief, Darryl Boykins, had improperly taped phone calls of senior white officers who were said to have used racist language, including about him. The F.B.I. was investigating Mr. Boykins for it. Some are now scrutinizing Mr. Buttigieg’s commitment to black voters. He has said he can’t release the tapes because of federal and state wiretapping laws and an ongoing lawsuit. In other 2020 news, Senator Elizabeth Warren called for the House of Representatives to begin impeachment proceedings against President Trump. _____ 6. A right-wing militia in southern New Mexico, above, is stopping families and detaining them at gunpoint before handing them over to Border Patrol agents. The act is raising tension over the tactics of armed vigilantes along the border between the U.S. and Mexico. Human rights groups compared it to kidnapping, and the state’s attorney general said the group should “not attempt to exercise authority reserved for law enforcement.” In a video uploaded by the militia group, a group of migrants can be seen kneeling on the ground and embracing one another. _____ 7. A video of a black Columbia University student being pinned down by security officers is becoming a flashpoint for racism on campus. Alexander McNab, the student, above, said he had grown tired of being asked to show identification when other students weren’t. After he refused, he was forcibly pinned down by public safety officers. “What I realized,” he said, “is every time I show my I.D. when I’m asked, the conversation about this remains silent.” _____ 8. There are 311 female ice hockey players in India, which has only five indoor rinks and a sports culture dominated by cricket and field hockey. We talked to the national women’s ice hockey team of India, above, which relies on outside organizations and crowdsourcing for equipment and funding. The players dream of playing in the Olympics, even though it is a long way off. “Even our families are like, ‘What are you doing? Get a job,’” said Diskit Angmo, a 22-year-old player. “Sometimes I get frustrated, sometimes I’m like, ‘What the hell?’ But then the passion comes up.” _____ 9. The Bauhaus school, which is celebrating its 100th anniversary, changed everything from furniture to graphic design. But the Bauhaus’s biggest legacy is in architecture. That legacy extends around the globe because the Nazis forced its closure in 1933, scattering Bauhaus teachers, students and aesthetics. We looked at where the school’s legacy stood in Argentina, Nigeria, Israel, Australia, Iraq, the United States and India. Above, Obafemi Awolowo University in Nigeria, built by an architect who studied at the school. To further inspire you, we asked a few of our favorite artists to select the five minutes of music that will make you fall in love with classical piano. Take a listen. _____ 10. Finally, baby fever. Prince Harry and Meghan Markle, pictured above in March, are already bucking some of the centuries-old traditions around the royal baby. We looked at 100 years of photos from our archive that featured royal baby traditions. We also looked at the economy around the child, who is already inspiring wagers, luxury cookie tins and diamond-encrusted jars of diaper rash cream. And we covered the rise of those doing stand-up comedy while pregnant. Have a sweet weekend. _____ Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern. And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here. What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.

Supported by By Melina Delkic and Marcus Payadue (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)  Good evening. Here’s the latest. 1. A portrait of the White House’s culture of dishonesty emerged from the special counsel’s 448-page report that was released Thursday. At one juncture after another, President Trump made his troubles worse, giving in to anger and grievance and lashing out in ways that turned advisers into witnesses against him. Above, the president on Thursday. Our reporters spoke with Americans across the country, many of whom agree on one thing: They are disgusted with the country’s leaders and the breakdown of functional government. What’s next? Robert Mueller, the special counsel, has been asked to testify before the House Judiciary Committee by May 23. Read our profile of the mysterious figure behind the investigation, including his weekly Friday-night ritual of dining at a dimly lit, mostly empty restaurant near his home. He usually ordered white wine and scallops. _____ 2. In other Washington news: House Democrats issued a subpoena for the unredacted report and all of its underlying evidence, escalating a fight with the attorney general over what material Congress is entitled to see. Above, Representative Jerrold Nadler, the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee. Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary,  defended her statement that “countless” F.B.I. employees had lost faith in James Comey, the F.B.I. director fired by Mr. Trump. She told investigators for the special counsel last summer that it was a “slip of the tongue.” _____ 3. The architect who oversaw the design of the Notre-Dame cathedral’s fire safety system acknowledged that officials had miscalculated how quickly fire could spread through the cathedral. Benjamin Mouton, the architect, told The Times he was “stunned” by the speed. Fire safety experts said he should have known better. The fire alarms in the attic of Notre Dame did not immediately notify fire dispatchers. Instead, a guard at the cathedral first had to climb a steep set of stairs to the attic — a trip that would take a “fit” person six minutes to complete, Mr. Mouton said. Even a flawless response would have a built-in delay of about 20 minutes from the moment the alarm sounded until firefighters could arrive. _____ 4. In other international news: A journalist in Northern Ireland, Lyra McKee, above, was killed while covering a night of violent unrest in Londonderry. Police blamed militants opposed to British rule there, and said they were treating it as a terrorist episode. Less than 1 percent of England’s population — including aristocrats, royals and wealthy investors — owns about half of the land, according to an upcoming book. We also looked at the gaps in international law regarding cruise ships. A recent reported sexual assault case aboard a Mediterranean cruise ship highlighted that legal ambiguity when a Spanish judge released the detained suspect, saying Spain had no jurisdiction. _____ 5. Mayor Pete Buttigieg of South Bend, Ind., a rising star in the 2020 Democratic field, above, fired his city’s first black police chief in 2012. In the years that followed, the move unleashed a blizzard of claims, counterclaims and lawsuits. Why? There were allegations that the police chief, Darryl Boykins, had improperly taped phone calls of senior white officers who were said to have used racist language, including about him. The F.B.I. was investigating Mr. Boykins for it. Some are now scrutinizing Mr. Buttigieg’s commitment to black voters. He has said he can’t release the tapes because of federal and state wiretapping laws and an ongoing lawsuit. In other 2020 news, Senator Elizabeth Warren called for the House of Representatives to begin impeachment proceedings against President Trump. _____ 6. A right-wing militia in southern New Mexico, above, is stopping families and detaining them at gunpoint before handing them over to Border Patrol agents. The act is raising tension over the tactics of armed vigilantes along the border between the U.S. and Mexico. Human rights groups compared it to kidnapping, and the state’s attorney general said the group should “not attempt to exercise authority reserved for law enforcement.” In a video uploaded by the militia group, a group of migrants can be seen kneeling on the ground and embracing one another. _____ 7. A video of a black Columbia University student being pinned down by security officers is becoming a flashpoint for racism on campus. Alexander McNab, the student, above, said he had grown tired of being asked to show identification when other students weren’t. After he refused, he was forcibly pinned down by public safety officers. “What I realized,” he said, “is every time I show my I.D. when I’m asked, the conversation about this remains silent.” _____ 8. There are 311 female ice hockey players in India, which has only five indoor rinks and a sports culture dominated by cricket and field hockey. We talked to the national women’s ice hockey team of India, above, which relies on outside organizations and crowdsourcing for equipment and funding. The players dream of playing in the Olympics, even though it is a long way off. “Even our families are like, ‘What are you doing? Get a job,’” said Diskit Angmo, a 22-year-old player. “Sometimes I get frustrated, sometimes I’m like, ‘What the hell?’ But then the passion comes up.” _____ 9. The Bauhaus school, which is celebrating its 100th anniversary, changed everything from furniture to graphic design. But the Bauhaus’s biggest legacy is in architecture. That legacy extends around the globe because the Nazis forced its closure in 1933, scattering Bauhaus teachers, students and aesthetics. We looked at where the school’s legacy stood in Argentina, Nigeria, Israel, Australia, Iraq, the United States and India. Above, Obafemi Awolowo University in Nigeria, built by an architect who studied at the school. To further inspire you, we asked a few of our favorite artists to select the five minutes of music that will make you fall in love with classical piano. Take a listen. _____ 10. Finally, baby fever. Prince Harry and Meghan Markle, pictured above in March, are already bucking some of the centuries-old traditions around the royal baby. We looked at 100 years of photos from our archive that featured royal baby traditions. We also looked at the economy around the child, who is already inspiring wagers, luxury cookie tins and diamond-encrusted jars of diaper rash cream. And we covered the rise of those doing stand-up comedy while pregnant. Have a sweet weekend. _____ Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern. And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here. What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.Supported by On Politics With Lisa Lerer By Lisa Lerer Hi. Welcome to On Politics, your guide to the day in national politics. I’m Lisa Lerer, your host. [Get On Politics delivered to your inbox.] President Trump isn’t known for following the traditional political playbook. So, it was slightly surprising to see him spending Tax Day talking about … well … taxes. But while Mr. Trump’s words may have stayed on message, his political sights were aimed elsewhere: Representative Ilhan Omar, one of the first Muslim women elected to Congress. That Mr. Trump held his tax event less than 20 miles outside Ms. Omar’s district in Minnesota, a state that narrowly went for Hillary Clinton in 2016, was no accident. Nor were his recent attacks on Ms. Omar, a former state representative who has spent a little more than 27 months in any kind of elected office.  Mr. Trump’s appearance Monday in Minnesota, an early salvo in his re-election campaign, highlights a fundamental question he faces as we head into the 2020 race: Will his base be enough this time? Rallying conservatives used to revolve around a three-word slogan — “God, guns and gays” — which served as a shorthand for the type of cultural issues that sent voters streaming to the polls. Mr. Trump has taken that culture war mantra and supercharged it: “God, guns and gays” has become “immigration, identity and Islamophobia.” Mr. Trump has a long history of incendiary comments against Muslims. (This 2017 timeline from The Washington Post details nearly a decade of his statements.) He opened his campaign calling Mexican immigrants “rapists” and, since then, has repeatedly cast immigrants as criminals and drug dealers. And from sexual harassment to N.F.L. protests, he has intensified hot-button issues of race and gender by throwing fiery comments into our national debates. Some of these stances can be attributed to the president’s personal beliefs and temperament. But there’s also a calculated political strategy at play. It’s worth taking a look at some numbers from the 2016 exit polls. When Pennsylvania voters were asked whether minorities are favored in the United States, 31 percent of the electorate — or around 1.9 million voters — agreed. Of those, 1.6 million supported Mr. Trump. Pennsylvania, as many of you may remember, went for Mr. Trump by less than 45,000 votes. We don’t know how many of those 1.6 million voters flipped to Mr. Trump. What we know is the belief that white people are under attack — which exit polls showed was shared by Trump supporters in Wisconsin and Michigan — has helped animate his support. That brings us back to Ms. Omar, a woman at the intersection of all three elements of the new culture war. A refugee from Somalia, she’s a hijab-wearing Muslim and is closely identified with the Democratic Party’s left wing. Her comments last month before the Council on American-Islamic Relations led Mr. Trump to post an inflammatory video implying she trivialized the horror of the Sept. 11 terror attacks. She has also divided members of her own party, having made several statements that repeated historically anti-Semitic tropes. Their responses to Mr. Trump’s video, cataloged here by my colleague Astead Herndon, ranged from fierce to more milquetoast. Regardless of the complicated politics surrounding Ms. Omar, though, the freshman congresswoman has a decent shot at re-election. Her Minneapolis district hasn’t voted for a Republican in nearly six decades, and her profile will make it fairly easy for her to raise the kind of money that scares off primary challenges. The bigger political unknown is whether this benefits Mr. Trump quite as much as he may expect. [Sign up here to get On Politics in your inbox.] ____________________ Drop us a line! We want to hear from our readers. Have a question? We’ll try to answer it. Have a comment? We’re all ears. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com. ____________________ “Having money’s not everything; not having it is.” — Kanye West Monday is the day we’ve been waiting for: Federal Election Commission campaign finance reports are due. The public will finally get to see the full picture of something that’s been leaking in bits and pieces — how much each candidate raised during the first three months of the already-crowded 2020 race. Typically, happy campaigns file early. That’s why we received Mayor Pete Buttigieg’s information early this morning and President Trump’s last night. These reports include all kinds of data beyond just how much each candidate raised. We can see what they spent on, how many people they’ve hired and how much is left in the bank. It’s a fascinating peek into each campaign that gives an early sense of their operations. Money isn’t everything, as Mr. West points out. Hillary Clinton raised nearly double what Mr. Trump did in 2016. But in politics, it certainly does help. Here’s what we know so far: • The top fund-raisers in the first quarter of the year were Mr. Trump, whose campaign raised $30.3 million, and Senator Bernie Sanders, who raised $18.2 million. • Mr. Buttigieg raised $7.1 million in the quarter, and spent modestly, ending the period with $6.4 million in cash on hand. • Some lesser-known candidates face a steep challenge: Gov. Jay Inslee of Washington raised $2.25 million in the quarter; former Gov. John Hickenlooper of Colorado raised just over $2 million; and Julián Castro, the former housing secretary, raised $1.1 million. The New York Times will be up through the night reporting on the filings as they come in. You can follow along here. ____________________ • While climate change affects everywhere, some areas in America will be less affected than others. That’s the argument they’re making in Duluth, Minn., in a science-backed bid to spur the city’s growth. • As a “Game of Thrones” tourist in Northern Ireland, you can see how the magic of a fantasy realm has eclipsed the history of the actual place. • The Times won two Pulitzer Prizes, including one for our 18-month investigation into President Trump’s history of tax dodging. You can see all the winners here. ____________________ This is heartbreaking. _____________________ Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox. Thanks for reading. Politics is more than what goes on inside the White House. On Politics brings you the people, issues and ideas reshaping our world. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.

Supported by On Politics With Lisa Lerer By Lisa Lerer Hi. Welcome to On Politics, your guide to the day in national politics. I’m Lisa Lerer, your host. [Get On Politics delivered to your inbox.] President Trump isn’t known for following the traditional political playbook. So, it was slightly surprising to see him spending Tax Day talking about … well … taxes. But while Mr. Trump’s words may have stayed on message, his political sights were aimed elsewhere: Representative Ilhan Omar, one of the first Muslim women elected to Congress. That Mr. Trump held his tax event less than 20 miles outside Ms. Omar’s district in Minnesota, a state that narrowly went for Hillary Clinton in 2016, was no accident. Nor were his recent attacks on Ms. Omar, a former state representative who has spent a little more than 27 months in any kind of elected office.  Mr. Trump’s appearance Monday in Minnesota, an early salvo in his re-election campaign, highlights a fundamental question he faces as we head into the 2020 race: Will his base be enough this time? Rallying conservatives used to revolve around a three-word slogan — “God, guns and gays” — which served as a shorthand for the type of cultural issues that sent voters streaming to the polls. Mr. Trump has taken that culture war mantra and supercharged it: “God, guns and gays” has become “immigration, identity and Islamophobia.” Mr. Trump has a long history of incendiary comments against Muslims. (This 2017 timeline from The Washington Post details nearly a decade of his statements.) He opened his campaign calling Mexican immigrants “rapists” and, since then, has repeatedly cast immigrants as criminals and drug dealers. And from sexual harassment to N.F.L. protests, he has intensified hot-button issues of race and gender by throwing fiery comments into our national debates. Some of these stances can be attributed to the president’s personal beliefs and temperament. But there’s also a calculated political strategy at play. It’s worth taking a look at some numbers from the 2016 exit polls. When Pennsylvania voters were asked whether minorities are favored in the United States, 31 percent of the electorate — or around 1.9 million voters — agreed. Of those, 1.6 million supported Mr. Trump. Pennsylvania, as many of you may remember, went for Mr. Trump by less than 45,000 votes. We don’t know how many of those 1.6 million voters flipped to Mr. Trump. What we know is the belief that white people are under attack — which exit polls showed was shared by Trump supporters in Wisconsin and Michigan — has helped animate his support. That brings us back to Ms. Omar, a woman at the intersection of all three elements of the new culture war. A refugee from Somalia, she’s a hijab-wearing Muslim and is closely identified with the Democratic Party’s left wing. Her comments last month before the Council on American-Islamic Relations led Mr. Trump to post an inflammatory video implying she trivialized the horror of the Sept. 11 terror attacks. She has also divided members of her own party, having made several statements that repeated historically anti-Semitic tropes. Their responses to Mr. Trump’s video, cataloged here by my colleague Astead Herndon, ranged from fierce to more milquetoast. Regardless of the complicated politics surrounding Ms. Omar, though, the freshman congresswoman has a decent shot at re-election. Her Minneapolis district hasn’t voted for a Republican in nearly six decades, and her profile will make it fairly easy for her to raise the kind of money that scares off primary challenges. The bigger political unknown is whether this benefits Mr. Trump quite as much as he may expect. [Sign up here to get On Politics in your inbox.] ____________________ Drop us a line! We want to hear from our readers. Have a question? We’ll try to answer it. Have a comment? We’re all ears. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com. ____________________ “Having money’s not everything; not having it is.” — Kanye West Monday is the day we’ve been waiting for: Federal Election Commission campaign finance reports are due. The public will finally get to see the full picture of something that’s been leaking in bits and pieces — how much each candidate raised during the first three months of the already-crowded 2020 race. Typically, happy campaigns file early. That’s why we received Mayor Pete Buttigieg’s information early this morning and President Trump’s last night. These reports include all kinds of data beyond just how much each candidate raised. We can see what they spent on, how many people they’ve hired and how much is left in the bank. It’s a fascinating peek into each campaign that gives an early sense of their operations. Money isn’t everything, as Mr. West points out. Hillary Clinton raised nearly double what Mr. Trump did in 2016. But in politics, it certainly does help. Here’s what we know so far: • The top fund-raisers in the first quarter of the year were Mr. Trump, whose campaign raised $30.3 million, and Senator Bernie Sanders, who raised $18.2 million. • Mr. Buttigieg raised $7.1 million in the quarter, and spent modestly, ending the period with $6.4 million in cash on hand. • Some lesser-known candidates face a steep challenge: Gov. Jay Inslee of Washington raised $2.25 million in the quarter; former Gov. John Hickenlooper of Colorado raised just over $2 million; and Julián Castro, the former housing secretary, raised $1.1 million. The New York Times will be up through the night reporting on the filings as they come in. You can follow along here. ____________________ • While climate change affects everywhere, some areas in America will be less affected than others. That’s the argument they’re making in Duluth, Minn., in a science-backed bid to spur the city’s growth. • As a “Game of Thrones” tourist in Northern Ireland, you can see how the magic of a fantasy realm has eclipsed the history of the actual place. • The Times won two Pulitzer Prizes, including one for our 18-month investigation into President Trump’s history of tax dodging. You can see all the winners here. ____________________ This is heartbreaking. _____________________ Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox. Thanks for reading. Politics is more than what goes on inside the White House. On Politics brings you the people, issues and ideas reshaping our world. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.Supported by By Reuters NEWARK, N.J. — U.S. Senator Cory Booker held the first major rally of his presidential campaign on Saturday in the city that launched his political career, saying America "can't wait" any longer to address the country's deep divisions and urgent problems. The rally took place in Newark, New Jersey, Booker's adopted hometown, where he built a national profile as mayor from 2006 to 2013 before winning a Senate seat. The event, which kicked off a two-week "Justice for All" multistate campaign tour, comes as Booker, 49, remains wedged in the middle of a crowded pack of Democratic hopefuls. Booker's 30-minute speech relied on some of the same themes of unity and compassion that he has touted throughout his campaign, arguing that defeating U.S. President Donald Trump in 2020 will require an inclusive approach to combat the Republican chief executive's often no-holds-barred brand of politics. "We have to decide whether we will choose division and blame - or if we will do the hard work of conquering fear with faith, apathy with action, and hatred with love," Booker said. "The president wants a race to the gutter and to fight us in the gutter. To win, we have to fight from higher ground in order to bring this country to higher ground." Booker also laid out a specific liberal policy vision, even as he warned that Democratic voters should favor pragmatism over ideological purity. He vowed to pursue Medicare-for-all, legalize marijuana, end mass incarceration and create "baby bonds" - government-backed savings accounts designed to close the racial wealth gap. The high-profile rally marked a shift for the Booker campaign, which thus far has emphasized more intimate events in key early voting states to introduce him to voters while building up staff on the ground. Booker has centered much of his campaign on his record in Newark, an economically troubled city that has nevertheless seen a revival during and after his tenure. But he has yet to see his campaign have the same sort of bounce that rivals such as Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Indiana, and U.S. Senator Kamala Harris of California have enjoyed. Booker has stubbornly remained around sixth or seventh in opinion polls among the 18 Democrats who have entered the race. Campaign aides this week dismissed concerns about those numbers. "You've got to organize and got to get hot at the end," Booker's campaign manager, Addisu Demissie, told reporters on Thursday. "We're not building this campaign to win polls in April 2019. This is a long race and there are going to be a lot of ups and downs." Booker sought to connect his call to action on Saturday with the civil rights movement, noting that the date of the rally, April 13, was the same day that Martin Luther King Jr began writing his famous "Letter from Birmingham Jail" while sitting in an Alabama cell in 1963. "He spoke to the possibility of what we can achieve when we realize our own power and refuse to wait," Booker said. "America, we know our history - it is a perpetual testimony to impatient, demanding, unrelenting people who in every generation with love stood up for justice."  (Reporting by Joseph Ax; Editing by Frank McGurty, Bill Berkrot and Jonathan Oatis)

Supported by By Reuters NEWARK, N.J. — U.S. Senator Cory Booker held the first major rally of his presidential campaign on Saturday in the city that launched his political career, saying America "can't wait" any longer to address the country's deep divisions and urgent problems. The rally took place in Newark, New Jersey, Booker's adopted hometown, where he built a national profile as mayor from 2006 to 2013 before winning a Senate seat. The event, which kicked off a two-week "Justice for All" multistate campaign tour, comes as Booker, 49, remains wedged in the middle of a crowded pack of Democratic hopefuls. Booker's 30-minute speech relied on some of the same themes of unity and compassion that he has touted throughout his campaign, arguing that defeating U.S. President Donald Trump in 2020 will require an inclusive approach to combat the Republican chief executive's often no-holds-barred brand of politics. "We have to decide whether we will choose division and blame - or if we will do the hard work of conquering fear with faith, apathy with action, and hatred with love," Booker said. "The president wants a race to the gutter and to fight us in the gutter. To win, we have to fight from higher ground in order to bring this country to higher ground." Booker also laid out a specific liberal policy vision, even as he warned that Democratic voters should favor pragmatism over ideological purity. He vowed to pursue Medicare-for-all, legalize marijuana, end mass incarceration and create "baby bonds" - government-backed savings accounts designed to close the racial wealth gap. The high-profile rally marked a shift for the Booker campaign, which thus far has emphasized more intimate events in key early voting states to introduce him to voters while building up staff on the ground. Booker has centered much of his campaign on his record in Newark, an economically troubled city that has nevertheless seen a revival during and after his tenure. But he has yet to see his campaign have the same sort of bounce that rivals such as Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Indiana, and U.S. Senator Kamala Harris of California have enjoyed. Booker has stubbornly remained around sixth or seventh in opinion polls among the 18 Democrats who have entered the race. Campaign aides this week dismissed concerns about those numbers. "You've got to organize and got to get hot at the end," Booker's campaign manager, Addisu Demissie, told reporters on Thursday. "We're not building this campaign to win polls in April 2019. This is a long race and there are going to be a lot of ups and downs." Booker sought to connect his call to action on Saturday with the civil rights movement, noting that the date of the rally, April 13, was the same day that Martin Luther King Jr began writing his famous "Letter from Birmingham Jail" while sitting in an Alabama cell in 1963. "He spoke to the possibility of what we can achieve when we realize our own power and refuse to wait," Booker said. "America, we know our history - it is a perpetual testimony to impatient, demanding, unrelenting people who in every generation with love stood up for justice."  (Reporting by Joseph Ax; Editing by Frank McGurty, Bill Berkrot and Jonathan Oatis)Supported by By The New York Times The New York Times asked all 18 declared Democratic presidential candidates for their views on a number of policy options related to climate change. [Read the article here.] The candidates unanimously supported recommitting to the Paris Agreement, restoring President Barack Obama’s environmental regulations and increasing funding for clean-energy research. But their responses diverged on five other potential policies: increasing the United States’ emissions reduction targets under the Paris Agreement; setting a national renewable energy standard; putting a price on carbon; enacting new regulations beyond Mr. Obama’s; and expanding the use of nuclear energy. Below are the questions we asked and how the candidates responded: some verbally and others in writing; some directly and others through their campaign staff. Aside from a few corrected typos and minor punctuation changes for clarity, these are the full, unedited answers we received. “As president, I will immediately move to rejoin the Paris Agreement and to increase our emission reduction targets to align with the scientific consensus for the necessary speed and scale at which we must decarbonize in order to keep global warming below 1.5 degrees.” “Yes.” “If elected, my first action as president will be to recommit the United States into the Paris Agreement. Our nation must also make up for lost time from this administration’s actions and lead the international community to take vital next steps to combat climate change. The United States produces approximately 15 percent of global greenhouse gas emissions, meaning we must seriously address this issue at home and be an active leader in supporting sustainable and clean energy solutions around the globe.” “I would re-enter the Paris Agreement and make the U.S. a global leader in climate policy and new energy technology. With a carbon tax and an investment in negative emissions technology, we can reduce emissions by 40 percent by 2030 and can be at net-zero carbon by 2050.” Ms. Gabbard’s campaign responded with a 2017 statement: “President Trump’s decision to withdraw from the Paris Agreement, making us just one of three countries in the world not to participate, is short-sighted and irresponsible. Without global action to drastically curb carbon pollution, climate change threatens the safety and security of the planet, especially in places like Hawaii where we are already experiencing its devastating effects. The United States should be leading by example, leveraging innovation through science and technology, investing in clean energy, creating renewable energy jobs that cannot be outsourced, growing the economy, enhancing U.S. energy independence, and lowering energy costs for families and businesses, while reducing carbon emissions. We must continue to persevere and do our part to support efforts in the private sector and at all levels of government to combat climate change and protect our environment.” “As president, she would rejoin the Paris Agreement. She believes that the United States must lead the international community to set more ambitious targets to achieve net-zero carbon emissions.” “Yes, she wants to return the U.S. to the Paris deal.” “Yes.” “Yes. President Trump’s attempt to leave the Paris Agreement was one of the most shameful decisions of a shameful presidency. America can and should be a leader in the global fight against climate change. As president, I will recommit to the Paris accord and work on Day 1 to undo Donald Trump’s attacks on international climate progress. “We are ready: I am proud to say that within hours of Trump’s announcement that he intended to pull the U.S. out of the agreement, I co-founded the U.S. Climate Alliance — a bipartisan coalition of states that are committed to upholding America’s contributions to that pact. This alliance now consists of 22 states and Puerto Rico that together comprise over half of America’s population and its economy. “In addition to keeping the U.S. in the Paris Agreement, it is clear that greater global ambition is necessary to prevent warming from reaching unacceptable levels, and that the U.S. must help catalyze more ambitious national targets and actions to accelerate the pace of emissions reductions throughout the world.” Her campaign didn’t answer this question, but Ms. Klobuchar said at a CNN town hall-style event: “I will, as first day as the president, sign us back into the international climate change agreement. That is on Day 1.” “Yes. Climate change is not a hoax. It affects the quality of the air we breathe and the water we drink. As president, my administration will make it a priority to lead the world and take bold, direct climate action that will rival the New Deal in scope, rise to the scale of this challenge, and apply the urgency required to get the job done in 10 years. We need bold ideas that will meet the scale of the climate change crisis.” “Yes. We must reassert our international leadership on this issue before it’s too late. We need to build on the Paris climate agreement to achieve even bolder action on climate. Going back to 2015 is not enough. There’s a discount, economically and politically, on anything that’s decades down the road. So let’s not waste time in getting moving fast in the right direction again.” “Of course, although I don’t think the Paris Agreement goes nearly far enough. I don’t like when people say, ‘Oh, we’re going to rejoin Paris,’ and Paris is like the gold standard, because that’s not anywhere close to what we need to do, and we’re learning more every day about just how far behind those goals are. And that’s why I think a national effort around innovation is really important.” Mr. Sanders’s campaign confirmed that he would keep the United States in the Paris Agreement and increase emission reduction targets, but did not provide an on-the-record quote. “As president, I would keep the United States in the Paris Agreement; this is a global crisis, and we must work with the world to address it. We can aim for more ambitious targets in 2020.” “I believe we need to return to the Paris climate accord, and then we need to build on it. We need to do far more to reduce global emissions, but we can only do that when we’re leading from the front.” “Yes.” “Absolutely. America needs to rejoin the rest of the world in formally recognizing the threat posed by climate change and work with all nations to combat this existential crisis. The Paris Agreement doesn’t go far enough to mitigate climate change, and the U.S. should be a part of the conversation on what targets are necessary and how we can get to them. “It’s important to note that only through something like the Paris Agreement can we effectively tackle this problem. The U.S. accounts for only ~15% of global emissions, so any solution requires other countries to make similar changes. “We also need to recognize that our realistic targets probably aren’t enough to prevent some of the worst effects of climate change from happening. We’re already seeing them in the wildfires on our West Coast and floods in the Midwest, among other places. Outside of re-entering the Paris Agreement and curbing emissions, we need to heavily fund research into geoengineering projects such as carbon capture in order to undo some of the damage we’ve already done. The U.S. should be a leader in developing this technology.” “A federal price on carbon should be one part of a comprehensive response by the federal government to the threat of climate change. The proceeds should be paid out as a dividend in a progressive way that ensures that our climate policies are also reducing inequality and not burdening everyday families.” Mr. Buttigieg’s campaign shared his response to a similar question at a CNN event: “We’re going to have to contemplate a carbon tax. And, by the way, there are ways to do it that most Americans would be better off fiscally, because we could return it right back to the American people, but in so doing would help capture the true cost of things that are happening right now, because it’s in your and my lifetime that that cost is going to be paid one way or the other.” On Tuesday, at a rally in Iowa, he said definitively, “We’re going to have to have a carbon tax.” “The United States needs a federally mandated price on carbon to spur private-sector investments in renewables and carbon-free energy sources. The revenue created should go towards investments in renewable energy and related technologies, including in battery technology, which would lower the carbon profile of our economy. The revenue should also be directed towards addressing the burdens many communities will bear on the impacts of climate change and from the policies that need to address climate change. “Pricing carbon is necessary but not sufficient. We need bold policies that incentivize sustainable and renewable energy and change the behavior of certain industries. Pricing carbon is an important first step in that effort.” “Yes, I was a lead co-sponsor of a carbon tax bill in the Congress and have made a revenue-neutral carbon tax a centerpiece of my campaign. My plan would be to tax carbon beginning at a rate of $15 per metric ton of CO2 (or equivalent) and increasing $10 each year, and return 100 percent to the taxpayers with an option to invest the dividend into a tax-advantaged savings account like a 529 or retirement account.” “My OFF Fossil Fuels Act (H.R. 3671) would take the fossil-fuel tax credits that are repealed and create the OFF Fossil Fuels Fund, which would be used to fund the programs and activities listed in the Act, including low-income weatherization and retrofit assistance, electric vehicle rebate program for consumers, extension of tax credits for wind and solar energy, and environmental justice provisions for a clean energy future.” Ms. Gillibrand’s campaign provided an excerpt from her campaign launch speech: “Addressing a global challenge of this urgency will take massive effort and transformative vision, which is exactly why we should do it. Let’s invest in our crumbling infrastructure, create sustainable green jobs, and protect clean air and clean water as a universal human right. And I’d go further than others who support this plan. I’d also put a price on carbon to use market forces to steer companies away from fossil fuels and towards clean and renewable energy.” Ms. Harris’s campaign did not answer this question. Mr. Hickenlooper’s campaign did not answer this question. “A carbon price is one way to help hold polluters accountable for the harmful health and environmental impacts they continue to cause in our communities. But in our state efforts involving a carbon tax, we have found the vast amount of carbon savings came from investments, and there are many ways to fund those, including rolling back the Trump tax cuts and ending subsidies for fossil-fuel companies. And while a carbon price need not be the primary mechanism through which large-scale greenhouse gas pollution reductions are achieved, it may be a complementary policy that provides a price signal to help shift investment away from fossil fuels and toward clean energy.” Ms. Klobuchar’s campaign said she was open to a carbon tax but would not support one that increased prices for lower- and middle-income Americans. It did not provide an on-the-record quote. “All options will remain on the table to take action on climate change. I will use the bully pulpit and the veto pen to ensure we do not force our children to live under extreme conditions.” “We should leverage carbon pricing and the market in service of our ability to meet this challenge. There are a number of ways you can support pricing carbon into the market: You can do that through standards, the tax code, research and reinvestment. We need transparent, science-based, science-driven carbon pricing to guide our decisions as a democracy, strengthen our communities, support our workers, and unleash a robust market response to climate change.” “I’m open to it. I haven’t made a decision on it.” Mr. Sanders’s campaign did not answer this question. “I’m open to exploring the idea of a federal carbon tax. We need to get to a carbon-neutral status, and this could help.” Ms. Warren’s campaign did not answer this question. “I feel a federal carbon tax is important and is only one tool that we will need to address this imminent threat to our communities, country and environment. The challenge, of course, is how to implement such a tool without irreparably damaging the economy. Many scholars think that a tax should be about $49 or $50 per ton of CO2. More aggressive proponents think the range should be almost 10 times that amount. I believe the answer lies somewhere in the middle. “Any federal carbon tax should be spread across a broad sector as to not cause the effect to be carried by the consumer at the gas pump or electric meter. Natural gas production that produces methane, which is even worse than CO2 environmentally, should carry some of the burden. The agriculture sector that produces large amounts of methane should carry some of the burden. Once the potential revenue from these sectors are considered, a reasonable cost per ton carbon tax could be calculated, not more than $60 per ton. “Funds should be used to retire inefficient equipment, to incentivize zero-carbon-producing technologies and to spur a green economy.” “I’m in favor of a carbon fee and dividend system, taxing carbon at $40 per ton and increasing over time. This money would go in part to fund the Freedom Dividend (50%), and in part to fund research and investment into renewable energy, sustainable agriculture, infrastructure improvements and similar areas (50%).” “The Trump E.P.A. is taking actions to gut the Clean Power Plan, to weaken methane limits and to reverse vehicle emissions standards. All of these actions will make climate change worse. As president, I will restore these policies as part of a comprehensive approach to address climate change.” “Yes.” “This administration has repeatedly disregarded the serious threats that climate change poses — not only to our environment, but also to our long-term national security. I will reverse these shameful Trump administration policies.” “I support vehicle emissions standards and methane limits and other measures as a backstop. Over all, the most important thing we need to do is implement a carbon tax. Based on economic/climate modeling, a carbon tax would be more effective at reducing greenhouse gas emissions than regulations. This would harness the power of the free market but have regulations as a backstop.” “Yes, I would restore Obama-era climate change regulations that the Trump administration has reversed. In addition, I would take on the fossil-fuel industry by ending the $26 billion per year the American people are currently paying in subsidies and invest that in our green [energy] economy to get us to 100 percent renewable energy by 2035, as outlined in the OFF Fossil Fuels Act.” “She believes that clean air is a right, and would reverse the Trump administration’s rollback of the Obama administration’s clean air regulations.” Ms. Harris’s campaign said she wanted to “restore the Clean Power Plan and fully implement the Clean Car Standards.” “Yes.” “Yes, one of the first important steps that must be taken by the next American president is to reinstate crucial Obama-era federal climate policies, and strengthen them. This includes greenhouse gas pollution requirements in the electricity sector, vehicle emissions and appliance efficiency standards, rules governing methane and hydrofluorocarbon pollution, and how federal agencies consider the climate impacts of major energy projects in their environmental review processes, to name just a few.” Ms. Klobuchar’s campaign confirmed that she would restore the Clean Power Plan and gas mileage standards, but did not provide an on-the-record quote. “I started a climate-conscious construction business that built the greenest school in the Southeast United States. I know firsthand that we can create and protect jobs while also protecting our environment. The Obama administration understood the urgency to address this crisis for the future. My administration will make climate change a priority and not only restore Obama-era environmental policies like the Clean Power Plan, but work to take aggressive action that rivals the New Deal in scope. It seems that the Trump administration’s environmental policies are for industry lobbyists and special interests instead of tackling the hard choices we need to make now to protect the environment for future generations.” Mr. O’Rourke’s campaign said: “Yes. We would restore certain climate regulations. For example, the current administration’s proposed rollback of vehicle emissions standards is deeply problematic, both on the science and the economics, its impact on the environment and on public health.” “Yes.” Mr. Sanders’s campaign said he would restore Obama-era regulations but did not provide an on-the-record quote. “President Obama was on the right track toward making our country more climate responsible with regulations like the Clean Power Plan, methane limits and vehicle emissions standards. I would restore all of the Obama-era regulations that the Trump administration has reversed.” “I have strongly opposed the Trump administration’s efforts to roll back the Clean Power Plan and other Obama-era methane limits and vehicle emission standards. As president, I would reverse these rollbacks.” “Yes, I would. There are no Obama climate regulations that I would not restore, and I would go farther than Obama.” “We should absolutely reimplement the Clean Power Plan and continue to develop our regulations of power plants, on not just carbon but also other pollutants such as mercury. Additionally, I will direct the EPA to include CO2 in its review of standards, and specifically with respect to oil refineries. “The methane limits rolled back by the Trump administration should also be reimplemented to promote the recapture of methane. We should also be doing more to control the methane released into the atmosphere due to agriculture through better land/crop and livestock management, and by investing in biogas recovery. “The emissions standards largely codify into national law the requirements of California, which our car manufacturers design around anyway. That said, I’d continue to push for more aggressive emissions reduction while also pursuing other options for reducing emissions, such as public transportation programs. “The E.P.A. should continue to study the long-term costs of these pollutants so that we can better assess the social and economic impact of these regulations.” “As president, I will both work with Congress to pass comprehensive climate legislation and, when appropriate, use executive powers to address the existential threat posed by global warming.” Mr. Buttigieg’s campaign did not answer this question. “Addressing the existential crisis of climate change requires bold and aggressive action. President Obama put forward important policies that were a major step forward for our country and the world. For example, at HUD [the Department of Housing and Urban Development, which Mr. Castro used to lead], we worked on efforts to lower energy consumption and increase renewable energy usage in HUD assisted housing. But we cannot afford to stop there. We need renewable energy and performance standards, resilient infrastructure with stricter codes for sustainability, and we need incentives for research and investment in cutting-edge technologies.” “I would implement a carbon tax and primarily use market forces, rather than regulations, as the way to change behavior.” “I have long been an advocate of aggressive climate change legislation to curb greenhouse gas emissions. My OFF Fossil Fuels Act includes details on how to achieve 100 percent renewable energy goals by 2035, including: Renewable energy mandate, zero-emission vehicle mandate, electrification of transit, electric vehicle rebate program for consumers. Moratorium on new major fossil-fuel projects, banning fracking, ending fossil-fuel subsidies, low-income weatherization and retrofit assistance. Extension of tax credits for wind and solar energy. Ban on crude oil and LNG [liquefied natural gas] exports. Environmental justice provisions for a clean energy future. Establishes the Center for Workforce Development within the Department of Labor and the Equitable Transition Fund within the Department of the Treasury to identify the employment potential of the energy efficiency and renewable energy industry and the skills and training needed for workers in those fields to support career transition period.” “Yes, she would support additional regulations to achieve deeper cuts in emissions across the economy, including in the transportation sector.” Ms. Harris’s campaign did not answer this question. “Yes.” “Yes. The next president must make clear that defeating climate change is our nation’s highest priority, and that it will require a full national mobilization, including active involvement from every federal agency. The next administration must work with Congress to advance ambitious legislation similar to the Green New Deal that sets America on a path to net-zero greenhouse gas pollution and that invests in good jobs, infrastructure and innovation to build a more just and inclusive American clean energy future. But it will also be incumbent on the next administration to explore use of existing regulatory authorities — including under the federal Clean Air Act — to help drive major greenhouse gas pollution reductions.” Ms. Klobuchar’s campaign did not answer this question. “Combating greenhouse gas emissions is paramount to protecting the quality of the air we breathe, which impacts our health and the health of our loved ones. We must utilize technology to spur clean manufacturing, zero-emission transportation and modernizing the agricultural industry. All options will remain on the table to take action on climate change, and I will roll out a plan to specifically address this challenge at scale. The optimal route would be to usher in a full-scale approach that prepares our country for the threat of climate change, but the regulatory route must also be used to drive change, as needed.” Mr. O’Rourke’s campaign said: “Yes. For example, we would be immediately considering new steps to curb super-pollutants and methane emissions.” “Part of this is, how do we sit down as a business industry, research, environmental, public health people, and say: ‘O.K., what do we need to do here to get to where we need to be? Where do we need to be, and how do we get there, and how do we get there as fast as possible, and how do we all work together to get there?’ And so saying, ‘Hey, we’re going to put these regulations on now’ — I think it’s dangerous for us to say Democrats want to put on all these regulations, and then the Republican Congress is going to put on riders to not fund whatever you’re doing. Because we’ve been watching this happen. So how do you actually sit down with everybody and put together an agenda that we can all move forward on, and if administrations change or the House flips or the Senate flips, this is the agenda that we’ve all agreed upon? That is critically important, because this back-and-forth stuff, Obama puts it on, Trump lifts it off, riders on bills to defund things on the Appropriations Committee — it’s sand in the gears.” Mr. Sanders’s campaign said he would go beyond Obama-era regulations, but did not elaborate or provide an on-the-record quote. “I would restore all of the Obama-era regulations that the Trump administration has reversed. Once those are restored, we can continue to gauge their efficacy to decide how and where to go further.” “I oppose subsidies for fossil fuel companies and have spoken out repeatedly against the influence that Big Oil and carbon-based industries wield in Washington. My Climate Risk Disclosure Act would require companies to disclose their greenhouse gas emissions and price their exposure to climate risk into their valuations, raising public awareness of how dependent companies are on fossil fuels and using market forces to speed the transition to clean energy.” “The Obama regulations are too incremental to turn things around in ways that are necessary. I am a supporter of Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez’s Green New Deal, which seeks to meet 100 percent of the power demand in the United States through clean, renewable and zero-emission energy sources within the next 10 years. “I would end all subsidies for dirty energy and transfer them to subsidies for clean energy. I would prevent coal companies from using misleading marketing terms like ‘clean coal,’ and look for ways to move coal jobs to clean jobs, while closing coal plants and opening clean energy plants. I would start a phase-out of production of fossil-fuel-related vehicles. I would require zero-deforestation supply chains — that’s one of the more effective ways to help encourage healthy practices in other countries. And I would take a serious look at large agribusinesses, who are not only destroying the careers and lives of small, rural and family farmers, but doing damage to the planet in potentially irreversible ways. Multiple scholars have concluded that huge agribusinesses are the leading producer of methane gas and nitrous oxide (two of the most dangerous greenhouse gases) and are the No. 1 cause of ocean dead zones, water pollution, deforestation and habitat destruction. Compelling research suggests that even if we eliminated all fossil fuel use, we will exceed our 565 gigatons CO2e limit by 2030, simply from huge agribusinesses. There is no way to create policy around climate change without exploring ways to better regulate the waste produced by these massive companies, as well. In particular, we need to break up CAFOs (Concentrated Animal Feeding Operations), considering that even a relatively ‘small’ CAFO, with 2,500 animals, produces as much urine and feces and deadly runoff as a city of 411,000 humans.” “I think the regulations in place under Obama focused on the correct areas where we need to improve, but we need to be more aggressive with both the targets and timeframes. While I wouldn’t necessarily adapt all of California’s goals, I think their ambition reflects the seriousness of the situation and the scope of what we need to do in order to survive this existential threat.” “I support a national renewable energy standard.” Mr. Buttigieg’s campaign did not answer this question. “Yes. Lowering carbon emissions will require a national renewable energy standard that gradually increases until we achieve our emissions target by 2050.” “I support a carbon tax because it puts the exact right incentives in place to reduce emissions in the most efficient way possible. Under a carbon tax, it would become much more profitable to develop and implement renewables. We also need to invest in negative emissions technologies. I have called for ending fossil fuel subsidies and investing $5 billion a year in negative emissions technologies.” “We must achieve 100 percent clean and renewable energy by 2035. The international climate science body (I.P.C.C.) has made it clear that drastic and immediate action is necessary to avoid catastrophic climate impacts that will have enormous economic, public health, environmental and national security implications. My OFF Fossil Fuels Act is the most aggressive climate change legislation ever introduced in Congress and lays out a clear plan to transition away from fossil-fuel sources of energy to 100 percent renewable energy economy by 2035, and 80 percent by 2027.” “She supports a national renewable energy standard to achieve net-zero carbon emissions.” “She is for a national goal for renewable energy.” “Yes.” “Yes. We must achieve 100 percent clean power throughout the U.S. electricity sector as soon as possible. Congress should look to state successes as a model. In 2006, I helped lead the effort to pass Washington State’s first renewable energy standard, which has helped accelerate the growth of a wind energy industry that employs thousands of workers and that has attracted over $6 billion in investment. This year I have proposed a 100 percent clean energy bill in my state, which is currently moving towards passage in my state legislature.” Ms. Klobuchar’s campaign cited a speech she gave on the Senate floor in 2007, in which she said: “It is time to pass an aggressive renewable electricity standard, one requiring that all electricity providers would have to generate or purchase 25 percent of their electricity from renewable sources by the year 2025. Twenty-two states throughout the country have already demonstrated the value of establishing renewable electricity standards.” “Yes –– we are rich in renewable energies from solar to wind to geothermal to hydropower. We must incentivize power companies to source power from renewable sources, and current standards do not go far enough. We have just 10 years to act, and we must scale up current RES goals from 20 percent to 50 percent by 2025, with the goal of eliminating this danger entirely. We have the technology to make clean energy affordable and accessible to everyone. Investing in the newest technology and upgrading our power systems will create jobs, put more money in people’s pockets and make the United States a leader in combating climate change.” Mr. O’Rourke’s campaign did not answer this question. “I’m open and leaning to support, depending on the details.” Mr. Sanders’s campaign reiterated his support for the Green New Deal, which calls for 100 percent renewable energy, but did not provide an on-the-record quote. “California has been a world leader with its renewable energy standard, and we should come together to determine and apply a standard for the nation.” “I am an original cosponsor of the Green New Deal resolution, which commits the United States to meet 100 percent of our power demand through clean, renewable and zero-emission energy sources.” “I support the Green New Deal, which seeks to meet 100 percent of the power demand in the United States through clean, renewable and zero-emission energy sources within the next 10 years.” “I do support a national renewable energy standard, working backwards from emission standards. We need to lower emissions by a minimum of 45 percent by 2030 and aim for a complete transition to renewable, carbon-neutral energy sources by 2050 or earlier.” “In order to accelerate the development of technologies that can help us quickly decarbonize, I believe we should at least double federal funding for clean energy research. One research area in particular that we should fund is battery storage, which has a critical role to play as we continue to add exponentially more wind and solar power.” “Yes.” “Yes. I support expanding federal funding for clean-energy research through our public and private universities and through government institutions. We must expand the Advanced Research Projects Agency for Energy (ARPA-E), including through funding from priced carbon.” “Yes, I have called for a fivefold increase in clean-energy research and am the only candidate calling for a massive new investment in negative emissions technology. We won’t be able to get all the way to net-zero carbon without negative emissions technology taking greenhouse gases out of the atmosphere.” “My OFF Fossil Fuels Act states that we must invest in early-stage proof-of-concept technologies, and basic scientific research at the Department of Energy’s Office of Science through the 17 U.S. National Laboratories will be needed to discover the scientific properties needed to produce proof-of-concept or prototype technologies. The U.S. National Laboratories are centers of basic scientific research already working on technology programs such as grid modernization and security, battery storage, solar and wind technology efficiency, efficient transmission and distribution technologies, and hard- and software control systems for the grid. Focus on investing in early-stage breakthrough energy technologies. Funding these technologies could lead to innovations that could dramatically change how energy is generated, stored and distributed.” From the Gillibrand campaign: “She strongly supports increasing our federal investment in research to develop and deploy renewable energy technologies like wind, solar, geothermal and biofuels as rapidly as possible.” Ms. Harris’s campaign said that as president, she would “invest in clean energy research and infrastructure.” “Yes. Next-generation clean energy technologies; public-private partnerships.” “Yes, we must dramatically increase federal investment for research and development into clean energy technologies and climate solutions. Fortunately, today we already have so many of the technologies we need to defeat climate change — we simply have to put them to work. When I co-authored a book on clean energy a dozen years ago, this was not the case. And it is thanks in large part to the major down payment that we made into our clean energy future, as part of the 2009 Recovery Act, and because of the leadership of states in driving a domestic market for clean energy technologies. During my time as governor of Washington State, we’ve established a Clean Energy Research Institute at the University of Washington which is right now exploring breakthroughs in solar energy and battery storage technologies. The federal government has a critical role in play in catalyzing new clean-tech innovations, and in helping bring them to market. Increased federal R&D investment must be part of a successful climate agenda — and it must be focused on a range of technologies, from next-generation renewables and energy storage, to the capture and removal from the air of greenhouse gas pollution. “This unprecedented public investment we will make will unleash even greater private sector investment, giving the right price signals to entrepreneurs and small businesses to succeed in this new clean energy economy. We can and will create millions of new jobs in an economy run on clean energy. There are so many more jobs in fighting climate change than denying it.” Ms. Klobuchar’s campaign referred to her infrastructure plan, which calls for “sweeping legislation that invests in green infrastructure, modernizes our aging energy infrastructure so that it is secure and efficient, strengthens bioenergy capabilities, puts incentives in place to overhaul our building codes, and invests in energy efficiency retrofits and rural renewable energy development.” “Yes, we must invest in clean-energy research so that we stay current on all innovative technology to reach our goals to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The Trump administration’s latest budget cuts the Department of Energy’s Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy funds from $2.3 billion to $343 million. That is deplorable. I believe that the budget is a moral document that shows our priorities, that shows what we care about. We must invest in research that makes clean-energy more affordable and accessible to the American people. As your president, I will.” “We would invest in more research through our national labs, universities and incubators and in the scientists, engineers and entrepreneurs, the women and men who will do the work day in and day out. Not only must we emit less greenhouse gases, we must plant things that absorb greenhouse gases, and give our farmers a better harvest, and invest in the technologies to allow us to claim some that are in the air now. We must invent and improve our grid’s ability to save, store and then sell electricity from turbines and panels throughout the day — no matter where the sun is, at a given time, or whether the wind is blowing. We can build with steel and cement that’s better for our air; ship and haul cargo to far-away places with less or different fuel; reconfigure the last mile of energy and transportation in how it functions.” “Yes, of course. And included in that, we need to be, again, comprehensive on how we bring venture capital to those ideas. If we’re spending lots of federal money on research, I don’t want the company to end up in China. “Part of this broader plan is, yeah, you want to spend a bunch of money on innovation, but you also want to figure out how to get those companies on a track to deepen their ties in the United States.” Mr. Sanders’s campaign said he planned to release a climate change platform that would include extensive investments, but did not provide an on-the-record quote. “I do support increasing federal funding for clean-energy research. We should be investing in many areas, from energy storage technology, to more efficient solar and wind, to the National Ignition Facility at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory — in my House district — which is probing the frontiers of fusion energy.” Ms. Warren’s campaign did not answer this question, but she wrote on Facebook, “We need to invest in clean energy.” “I support treating the situation like the existential emergency that it is, meaning the United States will commit to all funding necessary to transition to a clean economy. I’m particularly interested in finding new forms of energy storage. There is a great deal of creative thinking in this arena, and part and parcel of creating new sources of renewable energy is finding inventive ways of keeping this energy so that it can be used when needed. Furthermore, for both environmental reasons and security reasons, we need to find ways to protect the electrical grid so that it can withstand natural and unnatural disasters.” “We’ve been subsidizing the oil industry for generations; it’s time we do the same for zero-emission energy sources. Upgrading our systems to use a higher percentage of solar, wind, hydro and geothermal energy should be a top priority. I think it’s important to invest heavily in all potential energy sources so we can allow American companies to innovate in this space. “Our realistic targets probably aren’t enough to prevent some of the worst effects of climate change from happening. We’re already seeing them in the wildfires on our West Coast and floods in the Midwest, among other places. Outside of reentering the Paris Agreement and curbing emissions, we need to heavily fund research into geoengineering projects such as carbon capture in order to undo some of the damage we’ve already done. The U.S. should be a leader in developing this technology.” “Nuclear energy should be part of the decarbonization toolbox. Currently in the U.S., nuclear energy provides 60 percent of all carbon-free electricity. Next-generation advanced nuclear reactors currently being developed have the potential to play an important role in helping us decarbonize at the speed and scale that scientists are telling us is necessary to avoid the worst impacts from climate change.” Mr. Buttigieg’s campaign did not answer this question. “Nuclear power has a number of challenges that have not yet been solved. For example, we still need to find a long-term solution for the safe disposal of nuclear waste. I support greater investment into technologies and techniques to address these issues. Approximately 20 percent of our nation’s energy comes from nuclear power. We should work towards reducing our reliance on nuclear power with investments in renewable energy.” “Nuclear energy should be part of our portfolio, and I believe we need to support new development of advanced nuclear technology, but not at the expense of developing renewables.” “No. No. No. Concerns over nuclear waste, and investments should go into renewable energy infrastructure and creating new jobs in a truly green energy economy.” Ms. Gillibrand’s campaign did not answer this question. Ms. Harris’s campaign did not answer this question. “Yes, but there has to be a stronger effort to solve the problem of disposal of high-level radioactive waste.” “We must move to a carbon-free power sector, so I would not take any zero-emission sources of power generation off the table. But my focus would be first and foremost on investing in the expansion of renewables, efficiency, smart grid and energy storage technologies. We should continue to explore next-generation advanced nuclear technologies. But safety is of paramount importance, as is a stable long-term plan for dealing with waste. And new nuclear plants have also proven to be very costly, so we must not allow utilities and corporate project-developers to stick ratepayers with any expensive cost overruns associated with such projects.” Ms. Klobuchar’s campaign said she supported nuclear development but did not provide an on-the-record quote. “As president, I will work to make the United States a global leader in renewable energy. While nuclear energy may seem like an option, in many ways it falls short of the type of energy we need to truly address climate change. I would not support the construction of new nuclear plants and would rally the American people to invest in truly renewable [energy].” Mr. O’Rourke’s campaign did not answer this question. “It is a tougher area, but I do think nuclear power needs to be part of the future for us. I do. And there’s these new ways of doing nuclear, which again will take research and development, but nuclear needs to be there.” Mr. Sanders’s campaign said he opposed nuclear development but did not provide an on-the-record quote. “I don’t support nuclear energy in its current form, though I do favor more research into fusion energy. We need to look forward, not back.” Ms. Warren’s campaign did not answer this question. “I’m opposed to nuclear power, as it provides risks and wastes that are dangerous and life-threatening. That said, nuclear power currently is responsible for about 20 percent of U.S. electricity and 50 percent of its carbon-free electricity. We may not be able to replace this carbon-free production in time if we close these plants too soon. According to Vox’s David Roberts, using some nuclear energy, or ‘at least as much of it as possible, seems like an obvious and urgent priority for anyone who values decarbonization.’ “We are not the only country that is starting to realize that shutting down nuclear plants should not be done prematurely. Germany initially set out to close all of its nuclear reactors by 2022, but as a result, they are now likely to miss their emissions reduction targets. And France is now considering options to extend the life of many of its older nuclear power plants. “Nuclear energy is not ideal, by any stretch. But it is still head and shoulders above coal and natural gas, and until we have solar, hydro and wind plants up and running to pick up the slack, we need to keep certain options open.” “Yes. Nuclear energy has been shown to be very environmentally friendly and cheap. Any realistic plan to decarbonize needs to include nuclear power. Most people think of Homer Simpson when they think of nuclear power, but the truth is that we have much safer nuclear technology that doesn’t result in unmanageable nuclear waste or a significant threat of meltdown. These thorium-based nuclear plants use an abundant natural element that could provide hundreds of years of power to the United States with little environmental impact.”

Supported by By The New York Times The New York Times asked all 18 declared Democratic presidential candidates for their views on a number of policy options related to climate change. [Read the article here.] The candidates unanimously supported recommitting to the Paris Agreement, restoring President Barack Obama’s environmental regulations and increasing funding for clean-energy research. But their responses diverged on five other potential policies: increasing the United States’ emissions reduction targets under the Paris Agreement; setting a national renewable energy standard; putting a price on carbon; enacting new regulations beyond Mr. Obama’s; and expanding the use of nuclear energy. Below are the questions we asked and how the candidates responded: some verbally and others in writing; some directly and others through their campaign staff. Aside from a few corrected typos and minor punctuation changes for clarity, these are the full, unedited answers we received. “As president, I will immediately move to rejoin the Paris Agreement and to increase our emission reduction targets to align with the scientific consensus for the necessary speed and scale at which we must decarbonize in order to keep global warming below 1.5 degrees.” “Yes.” “If elected, my first action as president will be to recommit the United States into the Paris Agreement. Our nation must also make up for lost time from this administration’s actions and lead the international community to take vital next steps to combat climate change. The United States produces approximately 15 percent of global greenhouse gas emissions, meaning we must seriously address this issue at home and be an active leader in supporting sustainable and clean energy solutions around the globe.” “I would re-enter the Paris Agreement and make the U.S. a global leader in climate policy and new energy technology. With a carbon tax and an investment in negative emissions technology, we can reduce emissions by 40 percent by 2030 and can be at net-zero carbon by 2050.” Ms. Gabbard’s campaign responded with a 2017 statement: “President Trump’s decision to withdraw from the Paris Agreement, making us just one of three countries in the world not to participate, is short-sighted and irresponsible. Without global action to drastically curb carbon pollution, climate change threatens the safety and security of the planet, especially in places like Hawaii where we are already experiencing its devastating effects. The United States should be leading by example, leveraging innovation through science and technology, investing in clean energy, creating renewable energy jobs that cannot be outsourced, growing the economy, enhancing U.S. energy independence, and lowering energy costs for families and businesses, while reducing carbon emissions. We must continue to persevere and do our part to support efforts in the private sector and at all levels of government to combat climate change and protect our environment.” “As president, she would rejoin the Paris Agreement. She believes that the United States must lead the international community to set more ambitious targets to achieve net-zero carbon emissions.” “Yes, she wants to return the U.S. to the Paris deal.” “Yes.” “Yes. President Trump’s attempt to leave the Paris Agreement was one of the most shameful decisions of a shameful presidency. America can and should be a leader in the global fight against climate change. As president, I will recommit to the Paris accord and work on Day 1 to undo Donald Trump’s attacks on international climate progress. “We are ready: I am proud to say that within hours of Trump’s announcement that he intended to pull the U.S. out of the agreement, I co-founded the U.S. Climate Alliance — a bipartisan coalition of states that are committed to upholding America’s contributions to that pact. This alliance now consists of 22 states and Puerto Rico that together comprise over half of America’s population and its economy. “In addition to keeping the U.S. in the Paris Agreement, it is clear that greater global ambition is necessary to prevent warming from reaching unacceptable levels, and that the U.S. must help catalyze more ambitious national targets and actions to accelerate the pace of emissions reductions throughout the world.” Her campaign didn’t answer this question, but Ms. Klobuchar said at a CNN town hall-style event: “I will, as first day as the president, sign us back into the international climate change agreement. That is on Day 1.” “Yes. Climate change is not a hoax. It affects the quality of the air we breathe and the water we drink. As president, my administration will make it a priority to lead the world and take bold, direct climate action that will rival the New Deal in scope, rise to the scale of this challenge, and apply the urgency required to get the job done in 10 years. We need bold ideas that will meet the scale of the climate change crisis.” “Yes. We must reassert our international leadership on this issue before it’s too late. We need to build on the Paris climate agreement to achieve even bolder action on climate. Going back to 2015 is not enough. There’s a discount, economically and politically, on anything that’s decades down the road. So let’s not waste time in getting moving fast in the right direction again.” “Of course, although I don’t think the Paris Agreement goes nearly far enough. I don’t like when people say, ‘Oh, we’re going to rejoin Paris,’ and Paris is like the gold standard, because that’s not anywhere close to what we need to do, and we’re learning more every day about just how far behind those goals are. And that’s why I think a national effort around innovation is really important.” Mr. Sanders’s campaign confirmed that he would keep the United States in the Paris Agreement and increase emission reduction targets, but did not provide an on-the-record quote. “As president, I would keep the United States in the Paris Agreement; this is a global crisis, and we must work with the world to address it. We can aim for more ambitious targets in 2020.” “I believe we need to return to the Paris climate accord, and then we need to build on it. We need to do far more to reduce global emissions, but we can only do that when we’re leading from the front.” “Yes.” “Absolutely. America needs to rejoin the rest of the world in formally recognizing the threat posed by climate change and work with all nations to combat this existential crisis. The Paris Agreement doesn’t go far enough to mitigate climate change, and the U.S. should be a part of the conversation on what targets are necessary and how we can get to them. “It’s important to note that only through something like the Paris Agreement can we effectively tackle this problem. The U.S. accounts for only ~15% of global emissions, so any solution requires other countries to make similar changes. “We also need to recognize that our realistic targets probably aren’t enough to prevent some of the worst effects of climate change from happening. We’re already seeing them in the wildfires on our West Coast and floods in the Midwest, among other places. Outside of re-entering the Paris Agreement and curbing emissions, we need to heavily fund research into geoengineering projects such as carbon capture in order to undo some of the damage we’ve already done. The U.S. should be a leader in developing this technology.” “A federal price on carbon should be one part of a comprehensive response by the federal government to the threat of climate change. The proceeds should be paid out as a dividend in a progressive way that ensures that our climate policies are also reducing inequality and not burdening everyday families.” Mr. Buttigieg’s campaign shared his response to a similar question at a CNN event: “We’re going to have to contemplate a carbon tax. And, by the way, there are ways to do it that most Americans would be better off fiscally, because we could return it right back to the American people, but in so doing would help capture the true cost of things that are happening right now, because it’s in your and my lifetime that that cost is going to be paid one way or the other.” On Tuesday, at a rally in Iowa, he said definitively, “We’re going to have to have a carbon tax.” “The United States needs a federally mandated price on carbon to spur private-sector investments in renewables and carbon-free energy sources. The revenue created should go towards investments in renewable energy and related technologies, including in battery technology, which would lower the carbon profile of our economy. The revenue should also be directed towards addressing the burdens many communities will bear on the impacts of climate change and from the policies that need to address climate change. “Pricing carbon is necessary but not sufficient. We need bold policies that incentivize sustainable and renewable energy and change the behavior of certain industries. Pricing carbon is an important first step in that effort.” “Yes, I was a lead co-sponsor of a carbon tax bill in the Congress and have made a revenue-neutral carbon tax a centerpiece of my campaign. My plan would be to tax carbon beginning at a rate of $15 per metric ton of CO2 (or equivalent) and increasing $10 each year, and return 100 percent to the taxpayers with an option to invest the dividend into a tax-advantaged savings account like a 529 or retirement account.” “My OFF Fossil Fuels Act (H.R. 3671) would take the fossil-fuel tax credits that are repealed and create the OFF Fossil Fuels Fund, which would be used to fund the programs and activities listed in the Act, including low-income weatherization and retrofit assistance, electric vehicle rebate program for consumers, extension of tax credits for wind and solar energy, and environmental justice provisions for a clean energy future.” Ms. Gillibrand’s campaign provided an excerpt from her campaign launch speech: “Addressing a global challenge of this urgency will take massive effort and transformative vision, which is exactly why we should do it. Let’s invest in our crumbling infrastructure, create sustainable green jobs, and protect clean air and clean water as a universal human right. And I’d go further than others who support this plan. I’d also put a price on carbon to use market forces to steer companies away from fossil fuels and towards clean and renewable energy.” Ms. Harris’s campaign did not answer this question. Mr. Hickenlooper’s campaign did not answer this question. “A carbon price is one way to help hold polluters accountable for the harmful health and environmental impacts they continue to cause in our communities. But in our state efforts involving a carbon tax, we have found the vast amount of carbon savings came from investments, and there are many ways to fund those, including rolling back the Trump tax cuts and ending subsidies for fossil-fuel companies. And while a carbon price need not be the primary mechanism through which large-scale greenhouse gas pollution reductions are achieved, it may be a complementary policy that provides a price signal to help shift investment away from fossil fuels and toward clean energy.” Ms. Klobuchar’s campaign said she was open to a carbon tax but would not support one that increased prices for lower- and middle-income Americans. It did not provide an on-the-record quote. “All options will remain on the table to take action on climate change. I will use the bully pulpit and the veto pen to ensure we do not force our children to live under extreme conditions.” “We should leverage carbon pricing and the market in service of our ability to meet this challenge. There are a number of ways you can support pricing carbon into the market: You can do that through standards, the tax code, research and reinvestment. We need transparent, science-based, science-driven carbon pricing to guide our decisions as a democracy, strengthen our communities, support our workers, and unleash a robust market response to climate change.” “I’m open to it. I haven’t made a decision on it.” Mr. Sanders’s campaign did not answer this question. “I’m open to exploring the idea of a federal carbon tax. We need to get to a carbon-neutral status, and this could help.” Ms. Warren’s campaign did not answer this question. “I feel a federal carbon tax is important and is only one tool that we will need to address this imminent threat to our communities, country and environment. The challenge, of course, is how to implement such a tool without irreparably damaging the economy. Many scholars think that a tax should be about $49 or $50 per ton of CO2. More aggressive proponents think the range should be almost 10 times that amount. I believe the answer lies somewhere in the middle. “Any federal carbon tax should be spread across a broad sector as to not cause the effect to be carried by the consumer at the gas pump or electric meter. Natural gas production that produces methane, which is even worse than CO2 environmentally, should carry some of the burden. The agriculture sector that produces large amounts of methane should carry some of the burden. Once the potential revenue from these sectors are considered, a reasonable cost per ton carbon tax could be calculated, not more than $60 per ton. “Funds should be used to retire inefficient equipment, to incentivize zero-carbon-producing technologies and to spur a green economy.” “I’m in favor of a carbon fee and dividend system, taxing carbon at $40 per ton and increasing over time. This money would go in part to fund the Freedom Dividend (50%), and in part to fund research and investment into renewable energy, sustainable agriculture, infrastructure improvements and similar areas (50%).” “The Trump E.P.A. is taking actions to gut the Clean Power Plan, to weaken methane limits and to reverse vehicle emissions standards. All of these actions will make climate change worse. As president, I will restore these policies as part of a comprehensive approach to address climate change.” “Yes.” “This administration has repeatedly disregarded the serious threats that climate change poses — not only to our environment, but also to our long-term national security. I will reverse these shameful Trump administration policies.” “I support vehicle emissions standards and methane limits and other measures as a backstop. Over all, the most important thing we need to do is implement a carbon tax. Based on economic/climate modeling, a carbon tax would be more effective at reducing greenhouse gas emissions than regulations. This would harness the power of the free market but have regulations as a backstop.” “Yes, I would restore Obama-era climate change regulations that the Trump administration has reversed. In addition, I would take on the fossil-fuel industry by ending the $26 billion per year the American people are currently paying in subsidies and invest that in our green [energy] economy to get us to 100 percent renewable energy by 2035, as outlined in the OFF Fossil Fuels Act.” “She believes that clean air is a right, and would reverse the Trump administration’s rollback of the Obama administration’s clean air regulations.” Ms. Harris’s campaign said she wanted to “restore the Clean Power Plan and fully implement the Clean Car Standards.” “Yes.” “Yes, one of the first important steps that must be taken by the next American president is to reinstate crucial Obama-era federal climate policies, and strengthen them. This includes greenhouse gas pollution requirements in the electricity sector, vehicle emissions and appliance efficiency standards, rules governing methane and hydrofluorocarbon pollution, and how federal agencies consider the climate impacts of major energy projects in their environmental review processes, to name just a few.” Ms. Klobuchar’s campaign confirmed that she would restore the Clean Power Plan and gas mileage standards, but did not provide an on-the-record quote. “I started a climate-conscious construction business that built the greenest school in the Southeast United States. I know firsthand that we can create and protect jobs while also protecting our environment. The Obama administration understood the urgency to address this crisis for the future. My administration will make climate change a priority and not only restore Obama-era environmental policies like the Clean Power Plan, but work to take aggressive action that rivals the New Deal in scope. It seems that the Trump administration’s environmental policies are for industry lobbyists and special interests instead of tackling the hard choices we need to make now to protect the environment for future generations.” Mr. O’Rourke’s campaign said: “Yes. We would restore certain climate regulations. For example, the current administration’s proposed rollback of vehicle emissions standards is deeply problematic, both on the science and the economics, its impact on the environment and on public health.” “Yes.” Mr. Sanders’s campaign said he would restore Obama-era regulations but did not provide an on-the-record quote. “President Obama was on the right track toward making our country more climate responsible with regulations like the Clean Power Plan, methane limits and vehicle emissions standards. I would restore all of the Obama-era regulations that the Trump administration has reversed.” “I have strongly opposed the Trump administration’s efforts to roll back the Clean Power Plan and other Obama-era methane limits and vehicle emission standards. As president, I would reverse these rollbacks.” “Yes, I would. There are no Obama climate regulations that I would not restore, and I would go farther than Obama.” “We should absolutely reimplement the Clean Power Plan and continue to develop our regulations of power plants, on not just carbon but also other pollutants such as mercury. Additionally, I will direct the EPA to include CO2 in its review of standards, and specifically with respect to oil refineries. “The methane limits rolled back by the Trump administration should also be reimplemented to promote the recapture of methane. We should also be doing more to control the methane released into the atmosphere due to agriculture through better land/crop and livestock management, and by investing in biogas recovery. “The emissions standards largely codify into national law the requirements of California, which our car manufacturers design around anyway. That said, I’d continue to push for more aggressive emissions reduction while also pursuing other options for reducing emissions, such as public transportation programs. “The E.P.A. should continue to study the long-term costs of these pollutants so that we can better assess the social and economic impact of these regulations.” “As president, I will both work with Congress to pass comprehensive climate legislation and, when appropriate, use executive powers to address the existential threat posed by global warming.” Mr. Buttigieg’s campaign did not answer this question. “Addressing the existential crisis of climate change requires bold and aggressive action. President Obama put forward important policies that were a major step forward for our country and the world. For example, at HUD [the Department of Housing and Urban Development, which Mr. Castro used to lead], we worked on efforts to lower energy consumption and increase renewable energy usage in HUD assisted housing. But we cannot afford to stop there. We need renewable energy and performance standards, resilient infrastructure with stricter codes for sustainability, and we need incentives for research and investment in cutting-edge technologies.” “I would implement a carbon tax and primarily use market forces, rather than regulations, as the way to change behavior.” “I have long been an advocate of aggressive climate change legislation to curb greenhouse gas emissions. My OFF Fossil Fuels Act includes details on how to achieve 100 percent renewable energy goals by 2035, including: Renewable energy mandate, zero-emission vehicle mandate, electrification of transit, electric vehicle rebate program for consumers. Moratorium on new major fossil-fuel projects, banning fracking, ending fossil-fuel subsidies, low-income weatherization and retrofit assistance. Extension of tax credits for wind and solar energy. Ban on crude oil and LNG [liquefied natural gas] exports. Environmental justice provisions for a clean energy future. Establishes the Center for Workforce Development within the Department of Labor and the Equitable Transition Fund within the Department of the Treasury to identify the employment potential of the energy efficiency and renewable energy industry and the skills and training needed for workers in those fields to support career transition period.” “Yes, she would support additional regulations to achieve deeper cuts in emissions across the economy, including in the transportation sector.” Ms. Harris’s campaign did not answer this question. “Yes.” “Yes. The next president must make clear that defeating climate change is our nation’s highest priority, and that it will require a full national mobilization, including active involvement from every federal agency. The next administration must work with Congress to advance ambitious legislation similar to the Green New Deal that sets America on a path to net-zero greenhouse gas pollution and that invests in good jobs, infrastructure and innovation to build a more just and inclusive American clean energy future. But it will also be incumbent on the next administration to explore use of existing regulatory authorities — including under the federal Clean Air Act — to help drive major greenhouse gas pollution reductions.” Ms. Klobuchar’s campaign did not answer this question. “Combating greenhouse gas emissions is paramount to protecting the quality of the air we breathe, which impacts our health and the health of our loved ones. We must utilize technology to spur clean manufacturing, zero-emission transportation and modernizing the agricultural industry. All options will remain on the table to take action on climate change, and I will roll out a plan to specifically address this challenge at scale. The optimal route would be to usher in a full-scale approach that prepares our country for the threat of climate change, but the regulatory route must also be used to drive change, as needed.” Mr. O’Rourke’s campaign said: “Yes. For example, we would be immediately considering new steps to curb super-pollutants and methane emissions.” “Part of this is, how do we sit down as a business industry, research, environmental, public health people, and say: ‘O.K., what do we need to do here to get to where we need to be? Where do we need to be, and how do we get there, and how do we get there as fast as possible, and how do we all work together to get there?’ And so saying, ‘Hey, we’re going to put these regulations on now’ — I think it’s dangerous for us to say Democrats want to put on all these regulations, and then the Republican Congress is going to put on riders to not fund whatever you’re doing. Because we’ve been watching this happen. So how do you actually sit down with everybody and put together an agenda that we can all move forward on, and if administrations change or the House flips or the Senate flips, this is the agenda that we’ve all agreed upon? That is critically important, because this back-and-forth stuff, Obama puts it on, Trump lifts it off, riders on bills to defund things on the Appropriations Committee — it’s sand in the gears.” Mr. Sanders’s campaign said he would go beyond Obama-era regulations, but did not elaborate or provide an on-the-record quote. “I would restore all of the Obama-era regulations that the Trump administration has reversed. Once those are restored, we can continue to gauge their efficacy to decide how and where to go further.” “I oppose subsidies for fossil fuel companies and have spoken out repeatedly against the influence that Big Oil and carbon-based industries wield in Washington. My Climate Risk Disclosure Act would require companies to disclose their greenhouse gas emissions and price their exposure to climate risk into their valuations, raising public awareness of how dependent companies are on fossil fuels and using market forces to speed the transition to clean energy.” “The Obama regulations are too incremental to turn things around in ways that are necessary. I am a supporter of Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez’s Green New Deal, which seeks to meet 100 percent of the power demand in the United States through clean, renewable and zero-emission energy sources within the next 10 years. “I would end all subsidies for dirty energy and transfer them to subsidies for clean energy. I would prevent coal companies from using misleading marketing terms like ‘clean coal,’ and look for ways to move coal jobs to clean jobs, while closing coal plants and opening clean energy plants. I would start a phase-out of production of fossil-fuel-related vehicles. I would require zero-deforestation supply chains — that’s one of the more effective ways to help encourage healthy practices in other countries. And I would take a serious look at large agribusinesses, who are not only destroying the careers and lives of small, rural and family farmers, but doing damage to the planet in potentially irreversible ways. Multiple scholars have concluded that huge agribusinesses are the leading producer of methane gas and nitrous oxide (two of the most dangerous greenhouse gases) and are the No. 1 cause of ocean dead zones, water pollution, deforestation and habitat destruction. Compelling research suggests that even if we eliminated all fossil fuel use, we will exceed our 565 gigatons CO2e limit by 2030, simply from huge agribusinesses. There is no way to create policy around climate change without exploring ways to better regulate the waste produced by these massive companies, as well. In particular, we need to break up CAFOs (Concentrated Animal Feeding Operations), considering that even a relatively ‘small’ CAFO, with 2,500 animals, produces as much urine and feces and deadly runoff as a city of 411,000 humans.” “I think the regulations in place under Obama focused on the correct areas where we need to improve, but we need to be more aggressive with both the targets and timeframes. While I wouldn’t necessarily adapt all of California’s goals, I think their ambition reflects the seriousness of the situation and the scope of what we need to do in order to survive this existential threat.” “I support a national renewable energy standard.” Mr. Buttigieg’s campaign did not answer this question. “Yes. Lowering carbon emissions will require a national renewable energy standard that gradually increases until we achieve our emissions target by 2050.” “I support a carbon tax because it puts the exact right incentives in place to reduce emissions in the most efficient way possible. Under a carbon tax, it would become much more profitable to develop and implement renewables. We also need to invest in negative emissions technologies. I have called for ending fossil fuel subsidies and investing $5 billion a year in negative emissions technologies.” “We must achieve 100 percent clean and renewable energy by 2035. The international climate science body (I.P.C.C.) has made it clear that drastic and immediate action is necessary to avoid catastrophic climate impacts that will have enormous economic, public health, environmental and national security implications. My OFF Fossil Fuels Act is the most aggressive climate change legislation ever introduced in Congress and lays out a clear plan to transition away from fossil-fuel sources of energy to 100 percent renewable energy economy by 2035, and 80 percent by 2027.” “She supports a national renewable energy standard to achieve net-zero carbon emissions.” “She is for a national goal for renewable energy.” “Yes.” “Yes. We must achieve 100 percent clean power throughout the U.S. electricity sector as soon as possible. Congress should look to state successes as a model. In 2006, I helped lead the effort to pass Washington State’s first renewable energy standard, which has helped accelerate the growth of a wind energy industry that employs thousands of workers and that has attracted over $6 billion in investment. This year I have proposed a 100 percent clean energy bill in my state, which is currently moving towards passage in my state legislature.” Ms. Klobuchar’s campaign cited a speech she gave on the Senate floor in 2007, in which she said: “It is time to pass an aggressive renewable electricity standard, one requiring that all electricity providers would have to generate or purchase 25 percent of their electricity from renewable sources by the year 2025. Twenty-two states throughout the country have already demonstrated the value of establishing renewable electricity standards.” “Yes –– we are rich in renewable energies from solar to wind to geothermal to hydropower. We must incentivize power companies to source power from renewable sources, and current standards do not go far enough. We have just 10 years to act, and we must scale up current RES goals from 20 percent to 50 percent by 2025, with the goal of eliminating this danger entirely. We have the technology to make clean energy affordable and accessible to everyone. Investing in the newest technology and upgrading our power systems will create jobs, put more money in people’s pockets and make the United States a leader in combating climate change.” Mr. O’Rourke’s campaign did not answer this question. “I’m open and leaning to support, depending on the details.” Mr. Sanders’s campaign reiterated his support for the Green New Deal, which calls for 100 percent renewable energy, but did not provide an on-the-record quote. “California has been a world leader with its renewable energy standard, and we should come together to determine and apply a standard for the nation.” “I am an original cosponsor of the Green New Deal resolution, which commits the United States to meet 100 percent of our power demand through clean, renewable and zero-emission energy sources.” “I support the Green New Deal, which seeks to meet 100 percent of the power demand in the United States through clean, renewable and zero-emission energy sources within the next 10 years.” “I do support a national renewable energy standard, working backwards from emission standards. We need to lower emissions by a minimum of 45 percent by 2030 and aim for a complete transition to renewable, carbon-neutral energy sources by 2050 or earlier.” “In order to accelerate the development of technologies that can help us quickly decarbonize, I believe we should at least double federal funding for clean energy research. One research area in particular that we should fund is battery storage, which has a critical role to play as we continue to add exponentially more wind and solar power.” “Yes.” “Yes. I support expanding federal funding for clean-energy research through our public and private universities and through government institutions. We must expand the Advanced Research Projects Agency for Energy (ARPA-E), including through funding from priced carbon.” “Yes, I have called for a fivefold increase in clean-energy research and am the only candidate calling for a massive new investment in negative emissions technology. We won’t be able to get all the way to net-zero carbon without negative emissions technology taking greenhouse gases out of the atmosphere.” “My OFF Fossil Fuels Act states that we must invest in early-stage proof-of-concept technologies, and basic scientific research at the Department of Energy’s Office of Science through the 17 U.S. National Laboratories will be needed to discover the scientific properties needed to produce proof-of-concept or prototype technologies. The U.S. National Laboratories are centers of basic scientific research already working on technology programs such as grid modernization and security, battery storage, solar and wind technology efficiency, efficient transmission and distribution technologies, and hard- and software control systems for the grid. Focus on investing in early-stage breakthrough energy technologies. Funding these technologies could lead to innovations that could dramatically change how energy is generated, stored and distributed.” From the Gillibrand campaign: “She strongly supports increasing our federal investment in research to develop and deploy renewable energy technologies like wind, solar, geothermal and biofuels as rapidly as possible.” Ms. Harris’s campaign said that as president, she would “invest in clean energy research and infrastructure.” “Yes. Next-generation clean energy technologies; public-private partnerships.” “Yes, we must dramatically increase federal investment for research and development into clean energy technologies and climate solutions. Fortunately, today we already have so many of the technologies we need to defeat climate change — we simply have to put them to work. When I co-authored a book on clean energy a dozen years ago, this was not the case. And it is thanks in large part to the major down payment that we made into our clean energy future, as part of the 2009 Recovery Act, and because of the leadership of states in driving a domestic market for clean energy technologies. During my time as governor of Washington State, we’ve established a Clean Energy Research Institute at the University of Washington which is right now exploring breakthroughs in solar energy and battery storage technologies. The federal government has a critical role in play in catalyzing new clean-tech innovations, and in helping bring them to market. Increased federal R&D investment must be part of a successful climate agenda — and it must be focused on a range of technologies, from next-generation renewables and energy storage, to the capture and removal from the air of greenhouse gas pollution. “This unprecedented public investment we will make will unleash even greater private sector investment, giving the right price signals to entrepreneurs and small businesses to succeed in this new clean energy economy. We can and will create millions of new jobs in an economy run on clean energy. There are so many more jobs in fighting climate change than denying it.” Ms. Klobuchar’s campaign referred to her infrastructure plan, which calls for “sweeping legislation that invests in green infrastructure, modernizes our aging energy infrastructure so that it is secure and efficient, strengthens bioenergy capabilities, puts incentives in place to overhaul our building codes, and invests in energy efficiency retrofits and rural renewable energy development.” “Yes, we must invest in clean-energy research so that we stay current on all innovative technology to reach our goals to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The Trump administration’s latest budget cuts the Department of Energy’s Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy funds from $2.3 billion to $343 million. That is deplorable. I believe that the budget is a moral document that shows our priorities, that shows what we care about. We must invest in research that makes clean-energy more affordable and accessible to the American people. As your president, I will.” “We would invest in more research through our national labs, universities and incubators and in the scientists, engineers and entrepreneurs, the women and men who will do the work day in and day out. Not only must we emit less greenhouse gases, we must plant things that absorb greenhouse gases, and give our farmers a better harvest, and invest in the technologies to allow us to claim some that are in the air now. We must invent and improve our grid’s ability to save, store and then sell electricity from turbines and panels throughout the day — no matter where the sun is, at a given time, or whether the wind is blowing. We can build with steel and cement that’s better for our air; ship and haul cargo to far-away places with less or different fuel; reconfigure the last mile of energy and transportation in how it functions.” “Yes, of course. And included in that, we need to be, again, comprehensive on how we bring venture capital to those ideas. If we’re spending lots of federal money on research, I don’t want the company to end up in China. “Part of this broader plan is, yeah, you want to spend a bunch of money on innovation, but you also want to figure out how to get those companies on a track to deepen their ties in the United States.” Mr. Sanders’s campaign said he planned to release a climate change platform that would include extensive investments, but did not provide an on-the-record quote. “I do support increasing federal funding for clean-energy research. We should be investing in many areas, from energy storage technology, to more efficient solar and wind, to the National Ignition Facility at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory — in my House district — which is probing the frontiers of fusion energy.” Ms. Warren’s campaign did not answer this question, but she wrote on Facebook, “We need to invest in clean energy.” “I support treating the situation like the existential emergency that it is, meaning the United States will commit to all funding necessary to transition to a clean economy. I’m particularly interested in finding new forms of energy storage. There is a great deal of creative thinking in this arena, and part and parcel of creating new sources of renewable energy is finding inventive ways of keeping this energy so that it can be used when needed. Furthermore, for both environmental reasons and security reasons, we need to find ways to protect the electrical grid so that it can withstand natural and unnatural disasters.” “We’ve been subsidizing the oil industry for generations; it’s time we do the same for zero-emission energy sources. Upgrading our systems to use a higher percentage of solar, wind, hydro and geothermal energy should be a top priority. I think it’s important to invest heavily in all potential energy sources so we can allow American companies to innovate in this space. “Our realistic targets probably aren’t enough to prevent some of the worst effects of climate change from happening. We’re already seeing them in the wildfires on our West Coast and floods in the Midwest, among other places. Outside of reentering the Paris Agreement and curbing emissions, we need to heavily fund research into geoengineering projects such as carbon capture in order to undo some of the damage we’ve already done. The U.S. should be a leader in developing this technology.” “Nuclear energy should be part of the decarbonization toolbox. Currently in the U.S., nuclear energy provides 60 percent of all carbon-free electricity. Next-generation advanced nuclear reactors currently being developed have the potential to play an important role in helping us decarbonize at the speed and scale that scientists are telling us is necessary to avoid the worst impacts from climate change.” Mr. Buttigieg’s campaign did not answer this question. “Nuclear power has a number of challenges that have not yet been solved. For example, we still need to find a long-term solution for the safe disposal of nuclear waste. I support greater investment into technologies and techniques to address these issues. Approximately 20 percent of our nation’s energy comes from nuclear power. We should work towards reducing our reliance on nuclear power with investments in renewable energy.” “Nuclear energy should be part of our portfolio, and I believe we need to support new development of advanced nuclear technology, but not at the expense of developing renewables.” “No. No. No. Concerns over nuclear waste, and investments should go into renewable energy infrastructure and creating new jobs in a truly green energy economy.” Ms. Gillibrand’s campaign did not answer this question. Ms. Harris’s campaign did not answer this question. “Yes, but there has to be a stronger effort to solve the problem of disposal of high-level radioactive waste.” “We must move to a carbon-free power sector, so I would not take any zero-emission sources of power generation off the table. But my focus would be first and foremost on investing in the expansion of renewables, efficiency, smart grid and energy storage technologies. We should continue to explore next-generation advanced nuclear technologies. But safety is of paramount importance, as is a stable long-term plan for dealing with waste. And new nuclear plants have also proven to be very costly, so we must not allow utilities and corporate project-developers to stick ratepayers with any expensive cost overruns associated with such projects.” Ms. Klobuchar’s campaign said she supported nuclear development but did not provide an on-the-record quote. “As president, I will work to make the United States a global leader in renewable energy. While nuclear energy may seem like an option, in many ways it falls short of the type of energy we need to truly address climate change. I would not support the construction of new nuclear plants and would rally the American people to invest in truly renewable [energy].” Mr. O’Rourke’s campaign did not answer this question. “It is a tougher area, but I do think nuclear power needs to be part of the future for us. I do. And there’s these new ways of doing nuclear, which again will take research and development, but nuclear needs to be there.” Mr. Sanders’s campaign said he opposed nuclear development but did not provide an on-the-record quote. “I don’t support nuclear energy in its current form, though I do favor more research into fusion energy. We need to look forward, not back.” Ms. Warren’s campaign did not answer this question. “I’m opposed to nuclear power, as it provides risks and wastes that are dangerous and life-threatening. That said, nuclear power currently is responsible for about 20 percent of U.S. electricity and 50 percent of its carbon-free electricity. We may not be able to replace this carbon-free production in time if we close these plants too soon. According to Vox’s David Roberts, using some nuclear energy, or ‘at least as much of it as possible, seems like an obvious and urgent priority for anyone who values decarbonization.’ “We are not the only country that is starting to realize that shutting down nuclear plants should not be done prematurely. Germany initially set out to close all of its nuclear reactors by 2022, but as a result, they are now likely to miss their emissions reduction targets. And France is now considering options to extend the life of many of its older nuclear power plants. “Nuclear energy is not ideal, by any stretch. But it is still head and shoulders above coal and natural gas, and until we have solar, hydro and wind plants up and running to pick up the slack, we need to keep certain options open.” “Yes. Nuclear energy has been shown to be very environmentally friendly and cheap. Any realistic plan to decarbonize needs to include nuclear power. Most people think of Homer Simpson when they think of nuclear power, but the truth is that we have much safer nuclear technology that doesn’t result in unmanageable nuclear waste or a significant threat of meltdown. These thorium-based nuclear plants use an abundant natural element that could provide hundreds of years of power to the United States with little environmental impact.”Supported by Good Thursday morning. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today. _____________________ • Attorney General William P. Barr said on Wednesday that he would scrutinize the F.B.I.’s Russia investigation, asserting that American intelligence agencies had spied on the Trump campaign. His remarks are certain to please President Trump, who has alleged that his campaign was targeted out of political malice. •  Mr. Barr also said that after releasing a partly blacked-out copy of the special counsel’s report, he would work to share some of the more sensitive redacted information with Congress. • As a married gay man and a Scripture-quoting Christian, the Democratic presidential candidate Pete Buttigieg has challenged the religious right on its own turf, confronting evangelicals over gay rights and questioning the moral authority of those who have stayed silent on Mr. Trump’s conduct. • In an appearance in San Antonio, Mr. Trump laid out what is likely to be a key issue in his re-election campaign, saying migrants pouring across the border with Mexico were dying in great numbers while gang members from Central America threatened American ranchers. And he made clear that he would try to put the blame on Democrats. • For years, both political parties have tried — and failed — to overhaul the nation’s immigration laws, mindful that someday the government would reach a breaking point. That moment has arrived. • Senator Bernie Sanders reintroduced his Medicare for All Act on Wednesday, the latest example of how he has used his Senate standing to bolster his presidential platform. • How much would a plan like Mr. Sanders’s cost? The Times asked a handful of economists and think tanks with a variety of perspectives to estimate total American health care expenditures in 2019 under such a system. • Federal Reserve officials were worried about slowing economic growth abroad when they decided to pause interest rate increases and cut economic growth forecasts for 2019, according to minutes from the March meeting released on Wednesday. • The Treasury Department said it would not immediately comply with a congressional request to hand over President Trump’s tax returns, setting up a protracted legal battle. • Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts raised more than $6 million in the first quarter of the year. That fell short of what several other Democratic presidential candidates received, but she had a strong finish. • Mr. Pence urged the United Nations to revoke the credentials of Venezuela’s ambassador to the world body, portraying him as a loyalist to  a government that has allowed crime, violence and starvation to rise. • Secretary of State Mike Pompeo left open the possibility of entering a conflict with Iran without first seeking explicit congressional approval, telling senators “there is no doubt there is a connection” between Al Qaeda and Iran. _____________________ Today’s On Politics briefing was compiled by Isabella Grullón Paz in New York. Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.

Supported by Good Thursday morning. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today. _____________________ • Attorney General William P. Barr said on Wednesday that he would scrutinize the F.B.I.’s Russia investigation, asserting that American intelligence agencies had spied on the Trump campaign. His remarks are certain to please President Trump, who has alleged that his campaign was targeted out of political malice. •  Mr. Barr also said that after releasing a partly blacked-out copy of the special counsel’s report, he would work to share some of the more sensitive redacted information with Congress. • As a married gay man and a Scripture-quoting Christian, the Democratic presidential candidate Pete Buttigieg has challenged the religious right on its own turf, confronting evangelicals over gay rights and questioning the moral authority of those who have stayed silent on Mr. Trump’s conduct. • In an appearance in San Antonio, Mr. Trump laid out what is likely to be a key issue in his re-election campaign, saying migrants pouring across the border with Mexico were dying in great numbers while gang members from Central America threatened American ranchers. And he made clear that he would try to put the blame on Democrats. • For years, both political parties have tried — and failed — to overhaul the nation’s immigration laws, mindful that someday the government would reach a breaking point. That moment has arrived. • Senator Bernie Sanders reintroduced his Medicare for All Act on Wednesday, the latest example of how he has used his Senate standing to bolster his presidential platform. • How much would a plan like Mr. Sanders’s cost? The Times asked a handful of economists and think tanks with a variety of perspectives to estimate total American health care expenditures in 2019 under such a system. • Federal Reserve officials were worried about slowing economic growth abroad when they decided to pause interest rate increases and cut economic growth forecasts for 2019, according to minutes from the March meeting released on Wednesday. • The Treasury Department said it would not immediately comply with a congressional request to hand over President Trump’s tax returns, setting up a protracted legal battle. • Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts raised more than $6 million in the first quarter of the year. That fell short of what several other Democratic presidential candidates received, but she had a strong finish. • Mr. Pence urged the United Nations to revoke the credentials of Venezuela’s ambassador to the world body, portraying him as a loyalist to  a government that has allowed crime, violence and starvation to rise. • Secretary of State Mike Pompeo left open the possibility of entering a conflict with Iran without first seeking explicit congressional approval, telling senators “there is no doubt there is a connection” between Al Qaeda and Iran. _____________________ Today’s On Politics briefing was compiled by Isabella Grullón Paz in New York. Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.Supported by By The Associated Press BURLINGTON, Iowa — They became notable presidential candidates in Iowa after narrow losses that nonetheless put them on the national political stage. They're competing for some of the same young voters. And this weekend, they've been driving around this first-in-the-nation caucus state reintroducing themselves to voters as others in the 2020 Democratic field dispersed to New Hampshire, South Carolina and Nevada. It's been Bernie versus Beto all weekend in Iowa, with both hopefuls reintroducing themselves as the man with a plan to deny President Donald Trump a second term. Sanders swept back into the state as the early front runner after raising $18 million in 41 days during the first quarter of the year, the most of any candidate. O'Rourke raised $9.4 million in 18 days. In dueling rallies, town halls and house parties, they spoke most of improving health care and affording college tuition. Other hopefuls fanned out to political hot spots elsewhere, with much the same mission: Gauging early strength in a crowded field and raising enough money to secure a coveted spot in the presidential debates that begin in June. Republican leaders have relished the jockeying among Democrats. "I'd be happy with any of 'em, to be honest," the president said of the Democratic derby. Here's a roundup of the crowded Democratic campaign. ___ Iowa Democrats know Sanders, the Vermont senator who lost the state — and the Democratic presidential nomination — to Hillary Clinton in 2016. At two town halls in counties he won during that caucus fight, Sanders' questioners asked most about making health care more affordable. Over and over, people told Sanders grim stories about medical bills putting them deeply in debt. He empathized, at one point putting an arm around a young woman who had begun weeping as she spoke. Sanders told his audience that he supports "Medicare for All" and a single-payer health care system. But he didn't get into specifics. Shannon Abel, a 28-year-old coordinator at a nonprofit organization in Muscatine, Iowa, said she still liked what she heard from Sanders. Then again, she had only begun seriously paying attention to politics after nearly a year of being ill and seeing the medical bills — with an $80 co-pay — put her family deeply in debt. Of Sanders, Abel said, "He knows what it's like to not have money." ___ O'Rourke is calling for a range of educational changes to alleviate college debt, including providing free community college and allowing students to potentially eliminate or refinance their debt through public service. "The cost of higher education, and not just tuition . is out of reach for so many of our fellow Americans," O'Rourke told a crowd gathered for a campaign house party in Polk City, Iowa. He said the tens of thousands in debt that students carry when they graduate "is a weight that literally sinks them into the ground." To solve the problem, he offered a number of proposals to help students "stop digging the hole" and stop taking on debt when they go for a college degree: Making community college free, allowing students to earn an associate degree while they're in high school so they're "ready to earn a living wage on day one," increase access to union apprenticeships. For those already saddled with student loan debt, O'Rourke said he'd like to "re-up the public service student debt forgiveness program" — a federal program that currently accepts only a fraction of applicants and is eliminated altogether in President Donald Trump's latest budget proposal. If students are willing to work in in-demand jobs at places like the Department of Veterans Affairs, or "willing to teach school or be in a support role in a community that needs your talent and human capital, I want to wipe clean your student loan debt. At a minimum I want to refinance what you have at a much lower rate." ___ Sanders says he wants to make college free and pay for it by getting rid of tax havens and lowering taxes for the richest Americans. That's been received with some skepticism among budget and deficit hawks. But to Trevor Meyers, 19, it sounds right. Meyers, like Sanders, is a democratic socialist. The Muscatine County resident attends a nearby college and lives at home with his family, which owns a farm. A sibling, he said, is five figures in debt from college. "How is anybody in our society going to get started in life?" he wondered. He liked Sanders, but said he's going to check out one of O'Rourke's events too. ___ Democrats running for president will have to do more than campaign on an anti-Trump message if they want to take back the White House in 2020, Sen. Elizabeth Warren said on Saturday. "If your message is 'not-Trump,' it's not going to work," the Democratic presidential hopeful told about 500 supporters who packed a high school gymnasium in Reno, Nevada. "Our job is to talk about our vision." Warren, D-Mass., blasted Trump's economic and environmental policies and touted her plan to invest $500 billion over the next 10 years to build, preserve and rehabilitate affordable housing for low-income families. She said she would pay for it by returning the estate tax thresholds to where they were during President George W. Bush's administration and imposing a new "wealth" tax on the nation's 17,000 wealthiest families. "Washington is working for the ultra-super-duper rich, and until we change that we are going to stay on this path. This is our moment," she told the cheering crowd. Warren was making her second campaign stop this year in the early caucus state, which on Feb. 22 follows only New Hampshire and Iowa in the nominating process. She spoke for about 30 minutes, took questions from the audience and posed for photographs for another half hour. More than half the crowd lined up to take selfies with her. ____ South Bend, Indiana, Mayor Pete Buttigieg headed to New Hampshire after his campaign announced he'd raised more than $7 million this year. Hundreds of voters interested in the mayor attended his two events in the state; some were turned away because the venues were at capacity. The mayor gave short speeches at both his Friday and Saturday events and did not take town hall style questions from the two crowds. Speaking at Gibson's Bookstore in Concord on Saturday morning, the 37-year-old Buttigieg said he understands people's difficulty in avoiding the spectacle of politics these days. "As hard as it is to take our eye off what we see on cable, because grotesque things have the quality of drawing your eye, and we can't take our eye off that show, but the show's not what matters," he said. "What matters is our everyday life." He later told voters, "We've got to change the channel, and that's what we're about." ___ A Native American woman dressed in the traditional garb of her Lakota Tribe came to Elizabeth Warren's rally in Reno but she said she wasn't there to protest the Massachusetts senator's claims of American Indian heritage. Joann Spotted Bear is among hundreds of people gathering at a Reno high school Saturday for Warren's second trip to the early caucus state of Nevada this year as she seeks the Democratic presidential nomination. Spotted Bear interrupted a rally for another presidential hopeful, California Sen. Kamala Harris, earlier this week at Washoe County Democratic headquarters in Reno. She said at the time she wanted to bring attention to the genocide of Native Americans during the 19th century and the U.S. violation of tribal treaties. On Saturday, she was wearing a leather wrap with a feather in her hair and carrying an American flag. She told The Associated Press before Warren's speech she doesn't have any problems with any of the Democrats running for president. ___ Associated Press writers Alexandra Jaffe in Polk City, Iowa, and Scott Sonner in Reno, Nevada, contributed to this report. ___

Supported by By The Associated Press BURLINGTON, Iowa — They became notable presidential candidates in Iowa after narrow losses that nonetheless put them on the national political stage. They're competing for some of the same young voters. And this weekend, they've been driving around this first-in-the-nation caucus state reintroducing themselves to voters as others in the 2020 Democratic field dispersed to New Hampshire, South Carolina and Nevada. It's been Bernie versus Beto all weekend in Iowa, with both hopefuls reintroducing themselves as the man with a plan to deny President Donald Trump a second term. Sanders swept back into the state as the early front runner after raising $18 million in 41 days during the first quarter of the year, the most of any candidate. O'Rourke raised $9.4 million in 18 days. In dueling rallies, town halls and house parties, they spoke most of improving health care and affording college tuition. Other hopefuls fanned out to political hot spots elsewhere, with much the same mission: Gauging early strength in a crowded field and raising enough money to secure a coveted spot in the presidential debates that begin in June. Republican leaders have relished the jockeying among Democrats. "I'd be happy with any of 'em, to be honest," the president said of the Democratic derby. Here's a roundup of the crowded Democratic campaign. ___ Iowa Democrats know Sanders, the Vermont senator who lost the state — and the Democratic presidential nomination — to Hillary Clinton in 2016. At two town halls in counties he won during that caucus fight, Sanders' questioners asked most about making health care more affordable. Over and over, people told Sanders grim stories about medical bills putting them deeply in debt. He empathized, at one point putting an arm around a young woman who had begun weeping as she spoke. Sanders told his audience that he supports "Medicare for All" and a single-payer health care system. But he didn't get into specifics. Shannon Abel, a 28-year-old coordinator at a nonprofit organization in Muscatine, Iowa, said she still liked what she heard from Sanders. Then again, she had only begun seriously paying attention to politics after nearly a year of being ill and seeing the medical bills — with an $80 co-pay — put her family deeply in debt. Of Sanders, Abel said, "He knows what it's like to not have money." ___ O'Rourke is calling for a range of educational changes to alleviate college debt, including providing free community college and allowing students to potentially eliminate or refinance their debt through public service. "The cost of higher education, and not just tuition . is out of reach for so many of our fellow Americans," O'Rourke told a crowd gathered for a campaign house party in Polk City, Iowa. He said the tens of thousands in debt that students carry when they graduate "is a weight that literally sinks them into the ground." To solve the problem, he offered a number of proposals to help students "stop digging the hole" and stop taking on debt when they go for a college degree: Making community college free, allowing students to earn an associate degree while they're in high school so they're "ready to earn a living wage on day one," increase access to union apprenticeships. For those already saddled with student loan debt, O'Rourke said he'd like to "re-up the public service student debt forgiveness program" — a federal program that currently accepts only a fraction of applicants and is eliminated altogether in President Donald Trump's latest budget proposal. If students are willing to work in in-demand jobs at places like the Department of Veterans Affairs, or "willing to teach school or be in a support role in a community that needs your talent and human capital, I want to wipe clean your student loan debt. At a minimum I want to refinance what you have at a much lower rate." ___ Sanders says he wants to make college free and pay for it by getting rid of tax havens and lowering taxes for the richest Americans. That's been received with some skepticism among budget and deficit hawks. But to Trevor Meyers, 19, it sounds right. Meyers, like Sanders, is a democratic socialist. The Muscatine County resident attends a nearby college and lives at home with his family, which owns a farm. A sibling, he said, is five figures in debt from college. "How is anybody in our society going to get started in life?" he wondered. He liked Sanders, but said he's going to check out one of O'Rourke's events too. ___ Democrats running for president will have to do more than campaign on an anti-Trump message if they want to take back the White House in 2020, Sen. Elizabeth Warren said on Saturday. "If your message is 'not-Trump,' it's not going to work," the Democratic presidential hopeful told about 500 supporters who packed a high school gymnasium in Reno, Nevada. "Our job is to talk about our vision." Warren, D-Mass., blasted Trump's economic and environmental policies and touted her plan to invest $500 billion over the next 10 years to build, preserve and rehabilitate affordable housing for low-income families. She said she would pay for it by returning the estate tax thresholds to where they were during President George W. Bush's administration and imposing a new "wealth" tax on the nation's 17,000 wealthiest families. "Washington is working for the ultra-super-duper rich, and until we change that we are going to stay on this path. This is our moment," she told the cheering crowd. Warren was making her second campaign stop this year in the early caucus state, which on Feb. 22 follows only New Hampshire and Iowa in the nominating process. She spoke for about 30 minutes, took questions from the audience and posed for photographs for another half hour. More than half the crowd lined up to take selfies with her. ____ South Bend, Indiana, Mayor Pete Buttigieg headed to New Hampshire after his campaign announced he'd raised more than $7 million this year. Hundreds of voters interested in the mayor attended his two events in the state; some were turned away because the venues were at capacity. The mayor gave short speeches at both his Friday and Saturday events and did not take town hall style questions from the two crowds. Speaking at Gibson's Bookstore in Concord on Saturday morning, the 37-year-old Buttigieg said he understands people's difficulty in avoiding the spectacle of politics these days. "As hard as it is to take our eye off what we see on cable, because grotesque things have the quality of drawing your eye, and we can't take our eye off that show, but the show's not what matters," he said. "What matters is our everyday life." He later told voters, "We've got to change the channel, and that's what we're about." ___ A Native American woman dressed in the traditional garb of her Lakota Tribe came to Elizabeth Warren's rally in Reno but she said she wasn't there to protest the Massachusetts senator's claims of American Indian heritage. Joann Spotted Bear is among hundreds of people gathering at a Reno high school Saturday for Warren's second trip to the early caucus state of Nevada this year as she seeks the Democratic presidential nomination. Spotted Bear interrupted a rally for another presidential hopeful, California Sen. Kamala Harris, earlier this week at Washoe County Democratic headquarters in Reno. She said at the time she wanted to bring attention to the genocide of Native Americans during the 19th century and the U.S. violation of tribal treaties. On Saturday, she was wearing a leather wrap with a feather in her hair and carrying an American flag. She told The Associated Press before Warren's speech she doesn't have any problems with any of the Democrats running for president. ___ Associated Press writers Alexandra Jaffe in Polk City, Iowa, and Scott Sonner in Reno, Nevada, contributed to this report. ___Supported by California Today By Jill Cowan Good morning. (If you don’t already get California Today by email, here’s the sign-up.) In case you haven’t noticed, the field of Democratic candidates for president next year has gotten a little crowded. According to this handy Times candidate tracker, 16 Democrats have jumped into the race already, and three more, including Joe Biden, are likely to join. That’s a lot of candidates to keep track of — and since California’s presidential primary is now on March 3 instead of in June, the 14 million people eligible to vote in the Democratic primary here have an even louder voice than they’ve had in years. I checked in with Karen Skelton, a Democratic consultant based in Sacramento, to see how she thought things were shaking out so far. “I’m actually mesmerized by the possibilities in front of us,” she said, “because it’s such a big state and we haven’t gone early for so long.” That means, she said, more of the candidates will have to be visible in a geographically vast state — not as simple as taking a quick swing through Iowa or New Hampshire. It’s less likely that the field will have narrowed to just two or three candidates by the time California’s primary rolls around. And in order to be seen, Ms. Skelton said, the candidates will have to spend. “Huge amounts of money,” she said. “Like $10 million here can buy you four states of media elsewhere.” [Read more about Kamala Harris’s small-dollar fund-raising operation.] And candidates who don’t have as much experience campaigning in deep blue but deeply diverse California will need to micro-target groups of Democratic voters. “You’re not just going, ‘I’m on the left,’” she said of the candidates. “You’re like, ‘I’m going for the Asian Pacific Islander vote. I’m going for the rural Latino vote. I’m going for the coastal vote north of Riverside County, south of Santa Monica.’” Of course, Ms. Skelton said, Senator Kamala Harris “has an enormous advantage.” Ms. Harris and Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont have both previously campaigned throughout California, so they have edges in the Golden State, she said. Still, nothing’s a sure bet when the field’s this wide open. [Read more about Ms. Harris’s first major campaign policy: A raise for teachers.] As my colleague Lisa Lerer wrote in today’s On Politics, we’re currently in the throes of a “Buttigieg Boomlet,” referring to Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Ind. And Ms. Skelton said that for Beto O’Rourke, focusing his efforts on his giant, fast-growing home state of Texas could be a smart strategy. A recent Quinnipiac University national poll showed Ms. Harris trailing Joe Biden, Mr. Sanders and Mr. O’Rourke. And at home, Ms. Harris doesn’t exactly have unqualified support. While a new poll from the Public Policy Institute of California found that 54 percent of likely Democratic voters thought Ms. Harris should run for president, her approval rating as a senator was 48 percent among all likely voters, which was the same as the number for Senator Dianne Feinstein. (We often link to sites that limit access for nonsubscribers. We appreciate your reading Times stories, but we’d also encourage you to support local news if you can.) • Calls for Representative Adam Schiff’s head highlight a divide between House Democrats and Republicans that only got wider after Attorney General William P. Barr released his summary of the Mueller report. [The New York Times] • State lawmakers proposed a package of five bills aimed at reforming the college admissions process, including legislation that would make it harder for children of alumni and athletes to get preferential treatment. [The Wall Street Journal] • The Department of Housing and Urban Development sued Facebook on Thursday, accusing the company of housing discrimination in the way it targeted ads. [The New York Times] • A federal jury in San Francisco ordered Monsanto to pay a man more than $80 million in damages after his cancer was found to have been in part caused by the weedkiller Roundup. The verdict was a milestone in a continuing debate, and Monsanto is currently defending itself against thousands of similar claims. [The New York Times] • Pacific Gas & Electric spent at least $84 million, or about $15.55 per electric customer, on lawyers in the year leading up to its bankruptcy filing. [The San Francisco Chronicle] • Lyft is becoming the first ride-hailing app to go public. On Thursday, it priced shares at $72, putting the company’s value at more than $24 billion. Its arrival on the public market marks the beginning of a new era for one-time disrupters. [The New York Times] • But for investors getting in on the action now, is it too late to make gobs of money? Is there any pop left, when today’s start-ups have spent years building massive businesses with private money instead of going public early? [The New York Times] • “We have the tools and language to understand identity in ways our parents never really thought about.” Hear from members of Generation Z in their own words. [The New York Times] • The U.S. census doesn’t have the language or tools for Arabs and Iranians to describe themselves as anything but white. That doesn’t square with their experiences. [The Los Angeles Times] • The Dodgers set an opening day record with eight home runs in a 12-5 victory over the Arizona Diamondbacks. [The Associated Press] • Colds, bruises, heartbreak: For many Latinos, Vicks VapoRub cures them all. Here’s how the little blue jar got onto so many grandmothers’ night stands and into so many mothers’ medicine cabinets. [The Los Angeles Times] One of the fun things about a new season, beyond the sense that you’re hitting a kind of refresh button on your life, is that you also get to hit refresh on your palate. This week, Tejal Rao wrote about how for her, spring means getting back into rhubarb: Every spring, when I spot red stalks of rhubarb at the market, I get ready to bake. The tang, the soft, creamy texture when it’s properly cooked, and the precise shade of hot pink, are all ideal for a big, celebratory spring cake, where rhubarb acts like a counterweight to the sweetness, bringing everything into balance. Alison Roman’s rhubarb-almond cake is my go-to, rich and crisp-edged and so easy to pull together if you’ve got a stand mixer. And this strawberry-rhubarb upside-down cake gets really jammy with fruit. But this year, I’m trying Melissa Clark’s rhubarb poundcake, striped with whole stalks, picking out thin dark stalks, rather than thick ones — they’ll cook faster and tend to be less fibrous. California Today goes live at 6:30 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com. Were you forwarded this email? Sign up for California Today here. Jill Cowan grew up in Orange County, went to school at U.C. Berkeley and has reported all over the state, including the Bay Area, Bakersfield and Los Angeles — but she always wants to see more. Follow along here or on Twitter, @jillcowan. California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.

Supported by California Today By Jill Cowan Good morning. (If you don’t already get California Today by email, here’s the sign-up.) In case you haven’t noticed, the field of Democratic candidates for president next year has gotten a little crowded. According to this handy Times candidate tracker, 16 Democrats have jumped into the race already, and three more, including Joe Biden, are likely to join. That’s a lot of candidates to keep track of — and since California’s presidential primary is now on March 3 instead of in June, the 14 million people eligible to vote in the Democratic primary here have an even louder voice than they’ve had in years. I checked in with Karen Skelton, a Democratic consultant based in Sacramento, to see how she thought things were shaking out so far. “I’m actually mesmerized by the possibilities in front of us,” she said, “because it’s such a big state and we haven’t gone early for so long.” That means, she said, more of the candidates will have to be visible in a geographically vast state — not as simple as taking a quick swing through Iowa or New Hampshire. It’s less likely that the field will have narrowed to just two or three candidates by the time California’s primary rolls around. And in order to be seen, Ms. Skelton said, the candidates will have to spend. “Huge amounts of money,” she said. “Like $10 million here can buy you four states of media elsewhere.” [Read more about Kamala Harris’s small-dollar fund-raising operation.] And candidates who don’t have as much experience campaigning in deep blue but deeply diverse California will need to micro-target groups of Democratic voters. “You’re not just going, ‘I’m on the left,’” she said of the candidates. “You’re like, ‘I’m going for the Asian Pacific Islander vote. I’m going for the rural Latino vote. I’m going for the coastal vote north of Riverside County, south of Santa Monica.’” Of course, Ms. Skelton said, Senator Kamala Harris “has an enormous advantage.” Ms. Harris and Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont have both previously campaigned throughout California, so they have edges in the Golden State, she said. Still, nothing’s a sure bet when the field’s this wide open. [Read more about Ms. Harris’s first major campaign policy: A raise for teachers.] As my colleague Lisa Lerer wrote in today’s On Politics, we’re currently in the throes of a “Buttigieg Boomlet,” referring to Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Ind. And Ms. Skelton said that for Beto O’Rourke, focusing his efforts on his giant, fast-growing home state of Texas could be a smart strategy. A recent Quinnipiac University national poll showed Ms. Harris trailing Joe Biden, Mr. Sanders and Mr. O’Rourke. And at home, Ms. Harris doesn’t exactly have unqualified support. While a new poll from the Public Policy Institute of California found that 54 percent of likely Democratic voters thought Ms. Harris should run for president, her approval rating as a senator was 48 percent among all likely voters, which was the same as the number for Senator Dianne Feinstein. (We often link to sites that limit access for nonsubscribers. We appreciate your reading Times stories, but we’d also encourage you to support local news if you can.) • Calls for Representative Adam Schiff’s head highlight a divide between House Democrats and Republicans that only got wider after Attorney General William P. Barr released his summary of the Mueller report. [The New York Times] • State lawmakers proposed a package of five bills aimed at reforming the college admissions process, including legislation that would make it harder for children of alumni and athletes to get preferential treatment. [The Wall Street Journal] • The Department of Housing and Urban Development sued Facebook on Thursday, accusing the company of housing discrimination in the way it targeted ads. [The New York Times] • A federal jury in San Francisco ordered Monsanto to pay a man more than $80 million in damages after his cancer was found to have been in part caused by the weedkiller Roundup. The verdict was a milestone in a continuing debate, and Monsanto is currently defending itself against thousands of similar claims. [The New York Times] • Pacific Gas & Electric spent at least $84 million, or about $15.55 per electric customer, on lawyers in the year leading up to its bankruptcy filing. [The San Francisco Chronicle] • Lyft is becoming the first ride-hailing app to go public. On Thursday, it priced shares at $72, putting the company’s value at more than $24 billion. Its arrival on the public market marks the beginning of a new era for one-time disrupters. [The New York Times] • But for investors getting in on the action now, is it too late to make gobs of money? Is there any pop left, when today’s start-ups have spent years building massive businesses with private money instead of going public early? [The New York Times] • “We have the tools and language to understand identity in ways our parents never really thought about.” Hear from members of Generation Z in their own words. [The New York Times] • The U.S. census doesn’t have the language or tools for Arabs and Iranians to describe themselves as anything but white. That doesn’t square with their experiences. [The Los Angeles Times] • The Dodgers set an opening day record with eight home runs in a 12-5 victory over the Arizona Diamondbacks. [The Associated Press] • Colds, bruises, heartbreak: For many Latinos, Vicks VapoRub cures them all. Here’s how the little blue jar got onto so many grandmothers’ night stands and into so many mothers’ medicine cabinets. [The Los Angeles Times] One of the fun things about a new season, beyond the sense that you’re hitting a kind of refresh button on your life, is that you also get to hit refresh on your palate. This week, Tejal Rao wrote about how for her, spring means getting back into rhubarb: Every spring, when I spot red stalks of rhubarb at the market, I get ready to bake. The tang, the soft, creamy texture when it’s properly cooked, and the precise shade of hot pink, are all ideal for a big, celebratory spring cake, where rhubarb acts like a counterweight to the sweetness, bringing everything into balance. Alison Roman’s rhubarb-almond cake is my go-to, rich and crisp-edged and so easy to pull together if you’ve got a stand mixer. And this strawberry-rhubarb upside-down cake gets really jammy with fruit. But this year, I’m trying Melissa Clark’s rhubarb poundcake, striped with whole stalks, picking out thin dark stalks, rather than thick ones — they’ll cook faster and tend to be less fibrous. California Today goes live at 6:30 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com. Were you forwarded this email? Sign up for California Today here. Jill Cowan grew up in Orange County, went to school at U.C. Berkeley and has reported all over the state, including the Bay Area, Bakersfield and Los Angeles — but she always wants to see more. Follow along here or on Twitter, @jillcowan. California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.Supported by By Matt Flegenheimer There is no discernible mass groundswell for an Eric Swalwell presidential campaign. The case against: He is a 38-year-old California congressman of little legislative distinction. He would appear to have minimal running room in a deep and accomplished Democratic field expected to grow to 20 or so — large enough to fill two baseball starting lineups, with another contender or two left to heckle from the dugout. The case for: Why not? “We don’t have time for vanity things,” Mr. Swalwell insisted in an interview this past week, the morning after he announced his candidacy on “The Late Show With Stephen Colbert,” pledging to anchor his bid in a call for greater gun control. “We’re doing big things.” That remains to be seen. But at the very least, if recent history is a guide, a run is likely to yield better things, perpetuating the victory-in-defeat incentive structure endemic to modern presidential politics. Today’s primaries tend to produce one nominee but many winners. Beyond the long-shot candidates effectively auditioning for cabinet positions or building a profile (and donor base) for future races, there are prospective books to sell and television contracts to sign, boards to join and paid speeches to paid-speak. Any setback is temporary, any embarrassment surmountable. [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] “There’s just absolutely no downside and only upside,” Antonia Ferrier, a longtime Republican strategist and former senior aide to Senator Mitch McConnell, said of quixotic presidential runs. “It is an industry of self-promotion. What better way to self-promote than run for president?” The Democratic presidential field is more crowded than usual. Here’s how it compares with past cycles. Mike Huckabee, the former Arkansas governor, has leveraged two losing presidential campaigns into an empire of folksy conservative ubiquity across television, radio and print. Ben Carson transitioned from renowned neurosurgeon to national hero of the right during a 2016 run that included an extended midcampaign hiatus to promote his book. His efforts were rewarded with a job in President Trump’s cabinet. Newt Gingrich, the former Republican House speaker, clawed back to national prominence seven years ago despite posing little threat to take the nomination, turning the protagonist of his wife’s children’s book — a fictional elephant named Ellis — into a kind of campaign mascot available for voter consumption. “It gives you a certain stature the rest of your life, kind of like having once been speaker of the House,” Mr. Gingrich said in an interview. “They introduce you, and then they say, ‘... and former presidential candidate!’ It’s not bad.” It is not. And underdog entrants have grown skilled at presenting their campaigns in altruistic terms, suggesting that finding a platform for a worthy cause is a reward tantamount to winning. [Who’s running for president in 2020? Keep up with who’s in and who’s out with our candidate tracker.] Tulsi Gabbard, a Hawaii congresswoman barely registering in most polls, has presented herself as the “peace” candidate opposed to military intervention overseas, though her willingness to visit President Bashar al-Assad of Syria has attracted wide scrutiny. Andrew Yang, a businessman and political newcomer, has found a semi-viral following with a focus on automation and a “universal basic income.” The Rev. Al Sharpton, who sought the Democratic nomination in 2004, said the experience aided his civil rights advocacy and increased his personal clout, expanding his opportunities even though he never approached serious electoral strength. “It opened doors. I was taken more seriously and what I represented was taken more seriously,” Mr. Sharpton said. He recalled hosting “Saturday Night Live” just before the primaries and later securing an invitation to meet with President George W. Bush. “No one in New York, when I was a tracksuit-wearing local activist, would ever dream I would sit down with a Republican president or host ‘Saturday Night Live,’” Mr. Sharpton said. Of course, it was Mr. Trump’s belief in the branding powers of a presidential campaign that pulled him into the 2016 race — and his triumph that has helped inspire successors. But Mr. Trump was already famous when he declared his intentions. And his blistering campaign style revealed a potential complication for those who see only benefits in running: Some of the top-tier contenders in 2016 — like Jeb Bush, appraised as “low energy” on Mr. Trump’s Twitter feed — came away plainly diminished as national figures. (Others, like Rick Perry and Mr. Carson, joined Mr. Trump’s administration.) Severe humiliation seems less likely among these Democrats, without a leading candidate who revels in savaging others in the party. In fact, for those with little to lose but an election, a national campaign appears to have grown only more attractive, even in a primary contest now teeming with 18 candidates. Many politicians look in the mirror and see a president. But at least as many look at the television, see peers with equivalent qualifications succeeding and reason that they should wander onto the set themselves. If Beto O’Rourke, a Senate-race-loser little known before last year, can shoot to the top tier of the Democratic field, what is stopping others? If Pete Buttigieg — a millennial mayor of a barely midsize city who was an also-ran in a 2017 bid to head the Democratic National Committee — can achieve national celebrity, why can’t anyone? “I don’t think anyone who runs for president does it just to boost their careers,” said Steve Israel, the former chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. “At the back of your mind is the constant calculation that you can catch some wave.” Mr. Swalwell, explaining his decision to run, cited Mr. Buttigieg’s success as evidence of his own viability. “We’re seeing generational cases being made here and they’re landing,” Mr. Swalwell said. “It’s completely reaffirmed to me that a generational candidate can connect.” This Democratic cycle does afford uncommon courtesies to nonfavorites. Sensitive to any perception of party meddling from on high, the D.N.C. does not plan to place front-runners and long shots on separate debate stages, opting against the so-called undercard debate format used for low-polling Republicans in 2016. Democrats who reach a minimum (and not especially stringent) threshold for polling or fund-raising will be slotted randomly into one of two debates on consecutive nights; some lesser-known contenders, including Mr. Yang, already seem poised to qualify. Rick Santorum, a Republican presidential candidate in 2012 and 2016 who has since become a political commentator on CNN, noted that his network was inviting Democratic candidates on air for hourlong town hall forums, whether or not they have gained much traction. “There’s just so many more opportunities to break through,” he said. “I don’t know anybody who has a quasi-legitimate shot at running for president who should pass it up.” But Mr. Santorum, a former Pennsylvania senator who won 11 states in 2012 as the primary runner-up to Mitt Romney, cautioned candidates against expecting lasting personal dividends from an unsuccessful run. “I was on the national stage before,” he said, suggesting that his presidential campaigns had little effect on his future prospects. “I did Fox for five years after I left the Senate. I did books. If you’re someone who’s relatively obscure, who’s not had a national profile, I don’t know. You can ask them.” This warning was bipartisan. Lincoln Chafee, the former Rhode Island governor who sought the Democratic nomination in 2016, said his professional life had not appreciably changed since a campaign that was most closely associated with his pitch to convert national measurements to the metric system (and that ended after only four months). He still believes he deserved a longer look. “I was in favor of bringing Snowden home, stopping drone strikes, ending capital punishment,” Mr. Chafee said. “But everyone screamed about metric.” He contends that the instincts that led him into the 2016 contest, despite Hillary Clinton’s overwhelming advantages, were validated by Senator Bernie Sanders’s strong showing. “I always thought there was room for somebody to take off,” Mr. Chafee said. “I was right. It just wasn’t me.”   

Supported by By Matt Flegenheimer There is no discernible mass groundswell for an Eric Swalwell presidential campaign. The case against: He is a 38-year-old California congressman of little legislative distinction. He would appear to have minimal running room in a deep and accomplished Democratic field expected to grow to 20 or so — large enough to fill two baseball starting lineups, with another contender or two left to heckle from the dugout. The case for: Why not? “We don’t have time for vanity things,” Mr. Swalwell insisted in an interview this past week, the morning after he announced his candidacy on “The Late Show With Stephen Colbert,” pledging to anchor his bid in a call for greater gun control. “We’re doing big things.” That remains to be seen. But at the very least, if recent history is a guide, a run is likely to yield better things, perpetuating the victory-in-defeat incentive structure endemic to modern presidential politics. Today’s primaries tend to produce one nominee but many winners. Beyond the long-shot candidates effectively auditioning for cabinet positions or building a profile (and donor base) for future races, there are prospective books to sell and television contracts to sign, boards to join and paid speeches to paid-speak. Any setback is temporary, any embarrassment surmountable. [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] “There’s just absolutely no downside and only upside,” Antonia Ferrier, a longtime Republican strategist and former senior aide to Senator Mitch McConnell, said of quixotic presidential runs. “It is an industry of self-promotion. What better way to self-promote than run for president?” The Democratic presidential field is more crowded than usual. Here’s how it compares with past cycles. Mike Huckabee, the former Arkansas governor, has leveraged two losing presidential campaigns into an empire of folksy conservative ubiquity across television, radio and print. Ben Carson transitioned from renowned neurosurgeon to national hero of the right during a 2016 run that included an extended midcampaign hiatus to promote his book. His efforts were rewarded with a job in President Trump’s cabinet. Newt Gingrich, the former Republican House speaker, clawed back to national prominence seven years ago despite posing little threat to take the nomination, turning the protagonist of his wife’s children’s book — a fictional elephant named Ellis — into a kind of campaign mascot available for voter consumption. “It gives you a certain stature the rest of your life, kind of like having once been speaker of the House,” Mr. Gingrich said in an interview. “They introduce you, and then they say, ‘... and former presidential candidate!’ It’s not bad.” It is not. And underdog entrants have grown skilled at presenting their campaigns in altruistic terms, suggesting that finding a platform for a worthy cause is a reward tantamount to winning. [Who’s running for president in 2020? Keep up with who’s in and who’s out with our candidate tracker.] Tulsi Gabbard, a Hawaii congresswoman barely registering in most polls, has presented herself as the “peace” candidate opposed to military intervention overseas, though her willingness to visit President Bashar al-Assad of Syria has attracted wide scrutiny. Andrew Yang, a businessman and political newcomer, has found a semi-viral following with a focus on automation and a “universal basic income.” The Rev. Al Sharpton, who sought the Democratic nomination in 2004, said the experience aided his civil rights advocacy and increased his personal clout, expanding his opportunities even though he never approached serious electoral strength. “It opened doors. I was taken more seriously and what I represented was taken more seriously,” Mr. Sharpton said. He recalled hosting “Saturday Night Live” just before the primaries and later securing an invitation to meet with President George W. Bush. “No one in New York, when I was a tracksuit-wearing local activist, would ever dream I would sit down with a Republican president or host ‘Saturday Night Live,’” Mr. Sharpton said. Of course, it was Mr. Trump’s belief in the branding powers of a presidential campaign that pulled him into the 2016 race — and his triumph that has helped inspire successors. But Mr. Trump was already famous when he declared his intentions. And his blistering campaign style revealed a potential complication for those who see only benefits in running: Some of the top-tier contenders in 2016 — like Jeb Bush, appraised as “low energy” on Mr. Trump’s Twitter feed — came away plainly diminished as national figures. (Others, like Rick Perry and Mr. Carson, joined Mr. Trump’s administration.) Severe humiliation seems less likely among these Democrats, without a leading candidate who revels in savaging others in the party. In fact, for those with little to lose but an election, a national campaign appears to have grown only more attractive, even in a primary contest now teeming with 18 candidates. Many politicians look in the mirror and see a president. But at least as many look at the television, see peers with equivalent qualifications succeeding and reason that they should wander onto the set themselves. If Beto O’Rourke, a Senate-race-loser little known before last year, can shoot to the top tier of the Democratic field, what is stopping others? If Pete Buttigieg — a millennial mayor of a barely midsize city who was an also-ran in a 2017 bid to head the Democratic National Committee — can achieve national celebrity, why can’t anyone? “I don’t think anyone who runs for president does it just to boost their careers,” said Steve Israel, the former chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. “At the back of your mind is the constant calculation that you can catch some wave.” Mr. Swalwell, explaining his decision to run, cited Mr. Buttigieg’s success as evidence of his own viability. “We’re seeing generational cases being made here and they’re landing,” Mr. Swalwell said. “It’s completely reaffirmed to me that a generational candidate can connect.” This Democratic cycle does afford uncommon courtesies to nonfavorites. Sensitive to any perception of party meddling from on high, the D.N.C. does not plan to place front-runners and long shots on separate debate stages, opting against the so-called undercard debate format used for low-polling Republicans in 2016. Democrats who reach a minimum (and not especially stringent) threshold for polling or fund-raising will be slotted randomly into one of two debates on consecutive nights; some lesser-known contenders, including Mr. Yang, already seem poised to qualify. Rick Santorum, a Republican presidential candidate in 2012 and 2016 who has since become a political commentator on CNN, noted that his network was inviting Democratic candidates on air for hourlong town hall forums, whether or not they have gained much traction. “There’s just so many more opportunities to break through,” he said. “I don’t know anybody who has a quasi-legitimate shot at running for president who should pass it up.” But Mr. Santorum, a former Pennsylvania senator who won 11 states in 2012 as the primary runner-up to Mitt Romney, cautioned candidates against expecting lasting personal dividends from an unsuccessful run. “I was on the national stage before,” he said, suggesting that his presidential campaigns had little effect on his future prospects. “I did Fox for five years after I left the Senate. I did books. If you’re someone who’s relatively obscure, who’s not had a national profile, I don’t know. You can ask them.” This warning was bipartisan. Lincoln Chafee, the former Rhode Island governor who sought the Democratic nomination in 2016, said his professional life had not appreciably changed since a campaign that was most closely associated with his pitch to convert national measurements to the metric system (and that ended after only four months). He still believes he deserved a longer look. “I was in favor of bringing Snowden home, stopping drone strikes, ending capital punishment,” Mr. Chafee said. “But everyone screamed about metric.” He contends that the instincts that led him into the 2016 contest, despite Hillary Clinton’s overwhelming advantages, were validated by Senator Bernie Sanders’s strong showing. “I always thought there was room for somebody to take off,” Mr. Chafee said. “I was right. It just wasn’t me.”   Supported by By Matt Flegenheimer There is no discernible mass groundswell for an Eric Swalwell presidential campaign. The case against: He is a 38-year-old California congressman of little legislative distinction. He would appear to have minimal running room in a deep and accomplished Democratic field expected to grow to 20 or so — large enough to fill two baseball starting lineups, with another contender or two left to heckle from the dugout. The case for: Why not? “We don’t have time for vanity things,” Mr. Swalwell insisted in an interview this past week, the morning after he announced his candidacy on “The Late Show With Stephen Colbert,” pledging to anchor his bid in a call for greater gun control. “We’re doing big things.” That remains to be seen. But at the very least, if recent history is a guide, a run is likely to yield better things, perpetuating the victory-in-defeat incentive structure endemic to modern presidential politics. Today’s primaries tend to produce one nominee but many winners. Beyond the long-shot candidates effectively auditioning for cabinet positions or building a profile (and donor base) for future races, there are prospective books to sell and television contracts to sign, boards to join and paid speeches to paid-speak. Any setback is temporary, any embarrassment surmountable. [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] “There’s just absolutely no downside and only upside,” Antonia Ferrier, a longtime Republican strategist and former senior aide to Senator Mitch McConnell, said of quixotic presidential runs. “It is an industry of self-promotion. What better way to self-promote than run for president?” The Democratic presidential field is more crowded than usual. Here’s how it compares with past cycles. Mike Huckabee, the former Arkansas governor, has leveraged two losing presidential campaigns into an empire of folksy conservative ubiquity across television, radio and print. Ben Carson transitioned from renowned neurosurgeon to national hero of the right during a 2016 run that included an extended midcampaign hiatus to promote his book. His efforts were rewarded with a job in President Trump’s cabinet. Newt Gingrich, the former Republican House speaker, clawed back to national prominence seven years ago despite posing little threat to take the nomination, turning the protagonist of his wife’s children’s book — a fictional elephant named Ellis — into a kind of campaign mascot available for voter consumption. “It gives you a certain stature the rest of your life, kind of like having once been speaker of the House,” Mr. Gingrich said in an interview. “They introduce you, and then they say, ‘... and former presidential candidate!’ It’s not bad.” It is not. And underdog entrants have grown skilled at presenting their campaigns in altruistic terms, suggesting that finding a platform for a worthy cause is a reward tantamount to winning. [Who’s running for president in 2020? Keep up with who’s in and who’s out with our candidate tracker.] Tulsi Gabbard, a Hawaii congresswoman barely registering in most polls, has presented herself as the “peace” candidate opposed to military intervention overseas, though her willingness to visit President Bashar al-Assad of Syria has attracted wide scrutiny. Andrew Yang, a businessman and political newcomer, has found a semi-viral following with a focus on automation and a “universal basic income.” The Rev. Al Sharpton, who sought the Democratic nomination in 2004, said the experience aided his civil rights advocacy and increased his personal clout, expanding his opportunities even though he never approached serious electoral strength. “It opened doors. I was taken more seriously and what I represented was taken more seriously,” Mr. Sharpton said. He recalled hosting “Saturday Night Live” just before the primaries and later securing an invitation to meet with President George W. Bush. “No one in New York, when I was a tracksuit-wearing local activist, would ever dream I would sit down with a Republican president or host ‘Saturday Night Live,’” Mr. Sharpton said. Of course, it was Mr. Trump’s belief in the branding powers of a presidential campaign that pulled him into the 2016 race — and his triumph that has helped inspire successors. But Mr. Trump was already famous when he declared his intentions. And his blistering campaign style revealed a potential complication for those who see only benefits in running: Some of the top-tier contenders in 2016 — like Jeb Bush, appraised as “low energy” on Mr. Trump’s Twitter feed — came away plainly diminished as national figures. (Others, like Rick Perry and Mr. Carson, joined Mr. Trump’s administration.) Severe humiliation seems less likely among these Democrats, without a leading candidate who revels in savaging others in the party. In fact, for those with little to lose but an election, a national campaign appears to have grown only more attractive, even in a primary contest now teeming with 18 candidates. Many politicians look in the mirror and see a president. But at least as many look at the television, see peers with equivalent qualifications succeeding and reason that they should wander onto the set themselves. If Beto O’Rourke, a Senate-race-loser little known before last year, can shoot to the top tier of the Democratic field, what is stopping others? If Pete Buttigieg — a millennial mayor of a barely midsize city who was an also-ran in a 2017 bid to head the Democratic National Committee — can achieve national celebrity, why can’t anyone? “I don’t think anyone who runs for president does it just to boost their careers,” said Steve Israel, the former chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. “At the back of your mind is the constant calculation that you can catch some wave.” Mr. Swalwell, explaining his decision to run, cited Mr. Buttigieg’s success as evidence of his own viability. “We’re seeing generational cases being made here and they’re landing,” Mr. Swalwell said. “It’s completely reaffirmed to me that a generational candidate can connect.” This Democratic cycle does afford uncommon courtesies to nonfavorites. Sensitive to any perception of party meddling from on high, the D.N.C. does not plan to place front-runners and long shots on separate debate stages, opting against the so-called undercard debate format used for low-polling Republicans in 2016. Democrats who reach a minimum (and not especially stringent) threshold for polling or fund-raising will be slotted randomly into one of two debates on consecutive nights; some lesser-known contenders, including Mr. Yang, already seem poised to qualify. Rick Santorum, a Republican presidential candidate in 2012 and 2016 who has since become a political commentator on CNN, noted that his network was inviting Democratic candidates on air for hourlong town hall forums, whether or not they have gained much traction. “There’s just so many more opportunities to break through,” he said. “I don’t know anybody who has a quasi-legitimate shot at running for president who should pass it up.” But Mr. Santorum, a former Pennsylvania senator who won 11 states in 2012 as the primary runner-up to Mitt Romney, cautioned candidates against expecting lasting personal dividends from an unsuccessful run. “I was on the national stage before,” he said, suggesting that his presidential campaigns had little effect on his future prospects. “I did Fox for five years after I left the Senate. I did books. If you’re someone who’s relatively obscure, who’s not had a national profile, I don’t know. You can ask them.” This warning was bipartisan. Lincoln Chafee, the former Rhode Island governor who sought the Democratic nomination in 2016, said his professional life had not appreciably changed since a campaign that was most closely associated with his pitch to convert national measurements to the metric system (and that ended after only four months). He still believes he deserved a longer look. “I was in favor of bringing Snowden home, stopping drone strikes, ending capital punishment,” Mr. Chafee said. “But everyone screamed about metric.” He contends that the instincts that led him into the 2016 contest, despite Hillary Clinton’s overwhelming advantages, were validated by Senator Bernie Sanders’s strong showing. “I always thought there was room for somebody to take off,” Mr. Chafee said. “I was right. It just wasn’t me.”   

Supported by By Matt Flegenheimer There is no discernible mass groundswell for an Eric Swalwell presidential campaign. The case against: He is a 38-year-old California congressman of little legislative distinction. He would appear to have minimal running room in a deep and accomplished Democratic field expected to grow to 20 or so — large enough to fill two baseball starting lineups, with another contender or two left to heckle from the dugout. The case for: Why not? “We don’t have time for vanity things,” Mr. Swalwell insisted in an interview this past week, the morning after he announced his candidacy on “The Late Show With Stephen Colbert,” pledging to anchor his bid in a call for greater gun control. “We’re doing big things.” That remains to be seen. But at the very least, if recent history is a guide, a run is likely to yield better things, perpetuating the victory-in-defeat incentive structure endemic to modern presidential politics. Today’s primaries tend to produce one nominee but many winners. Beyond the long-shot candidates effectively auditioning for cabinet positions or building a profile (and donor base) for future races, there are prospective books to sell and television contracts to sign, boards to join and paid speeches to paid-speak. Any setback is temporary, any embarrassment surmountable. [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] “There’s just absolutely no downside and only upside,” Antonia Ferrier, a longtime Republican strategist and former senior aide to Senator Mitch McConnell, said of quixotic presidential runs. “It is an industry of self-promotion. What better way to self-promote than run for president?” The Democratic presidential field is more crowded than usual. Here’s how it compares with past cycles. Mike Huckabee, the former Arkansas governor, has leveraged two losing presidential campaigns into an empire of folksy conservative ubiquity across television, radio and print. Ben Carson transitioned from renowned neurosurgeon to national hero of the right during a 2016 run that included an extended midcampaign hiatus to promote his book. His efforts were rewarded with a job in President Trump’s cabinet. Newt Gingrich, the former Republican House speaker, clawed back to national prominence seven years ago despite posing little threat to take the nomination, turning the protagonist of his wife’s children’s book — a fictional elephant named Ellis — into a kind of campaign mascot available for voter consumption. “It gives you a certain stature the rest of your life, kind of like having once been speaker of the House,” Mr. Gingrich said in an interview. “They introduce you, and then they say, ‘... and former presidential candidate!’ It’s not bad.” It is not. And underdog entrants have grown skilled at presenting their campaigns in altruistic terms, suggesting that finding a platform for a worthy cause is a reward tantamount to winning. [Who’s running for president in 2020? Keep up with who’s in and who’s out with our candidate tracker.] Tulsi Gabbard, a Hawaii congresswoman barely registering in most polls, has presented herself as the “peace” candidate opposed to military intervention overseas, though her willingness to visit President Bashar al-Assad of Syria has attracted wide scrutiny. Andrew Yang, a businessman and political newcomer, has found a semi-viral following with a focus on automation and a “universal basic income.” The Rev. Al Sharpton, who sought the Democratic nomination in 2004, said the experience aided his civil rights advocacy and increased his personal clout, expanding his opportunities even though he never approached serious electoral strength. “It opened doors. I was taken more seriously and what I represented was taken more seriously,” Mr. Sharpton said. He recalled hosting “Saturday Night Live” just before the primaries and later securing an invitation to meet with President George W. Bush. “No one in New York, when I was a tracksuit-wearing local activist, would ever dream I would sit down with a Republican president or host ‘Saturday Night Live,’” Mr. Sharpton said. Of course, it was Mr. Trump’s belief in the branding powers of a presidential campaign that pulled him into the 2016 race — and his triumph that has helped inspire successors. But Mr. Trump was already famous when he declared his intentions. And his blistering campaign style revealed a potential complication for those who see only benefits in running: Some of the top-tier contenders in 2016 — like Jeb Bush, appraised as “low energy” on Mr. Trump’s Twitter feed — came away plainly diminished as national figures. (Others, like Rick Perry and Mr. Carson, joined Mr. Trump’s administration.) Severe humiliation seems less likely among these Democrats, without a leading candidate who revels in savaging others in the party. In fact, for those with little to lose but an election, a national campaign appears to have grown only more attractive, even in a primary contest now teeming with 18 candidates. Many politicians look in the mirror and see a president. But at least as many look at the television, see peers with equivalent qualifications succeeding and reason that they should wander onto the set themselves. If Beto O’Rourke, a Senate-race-loser little known before last year, can shoot to the top tier of the Democratic field, what is stopping others? If Pete Buttigieg — a millennial mayor of a barely midsize city who was an also-ran in a 2017 bid to head the Democratic National Committee — can achieve national celebrity, why can’t anyone? “I don’t think anyone who runs for president does it just to boost their careers,” said Steve Israel, the former chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. “At the back of your mind is the constant calculation that you can catch some wave.” Mr. Swalwell, explaining his decision to run, cited Mr. Buttigieg’s success as evidence of his own viability. “We’re seeing generational cases being made here and they’re landing,” Mr. Swalwell said. “It’s completely reaffirmed to me that a generational candidate can connect.” This Democratic cycle does afford uncommon courtesies to nonfavorites. Sensitive to any perception of party meddling from on high, the D.N.C. does not plan to place front-runners and long shots on separate debate stages, opting against the so-called undercard debate format used for low-polling Republicans in 2016. Democrats who reach a minimum (and not especially stringent) threshold for polling or fund-raising will be slotted randomly into one of two debates on consecutive nights; some lesser-known contenders, including Mr. Yang, already seem poised to qualify. Rick Santorum, a Republican presidential candidate in 2012 and 2016 who has since become a political commentator on CNN, noted that his network was inviting Democratic candidates on air for hourlong town hall forums, whether or not they have gained much traction. “There’s just so many more opportunities to break through,” he said. “I don’t know anybody who has a quasi-legitimate shot at running for president who should pass it up.” But Mr. Santorum, a former Pennsylvania senator who won 11 states in 2012 as the primary runner-up to Mitt Romney, cautioned candidates against expecting lasting personal dividends from an unsuccessful run. “I was on the national stage before,” he said, suggesting that his presidential campaigns had little effect on his future prospects. “I did Fox for five years after I left the Senate. I did books. If you’re someone who’s relatively obscure, who’s not had a national profile, I don’t know. You can ask them.” This warning was bipartisan. Lincoln Chafee, the former Rhode Island governor who sought the Democratic nomination in 2016, said his professional life had not appreciably changed since a campaign that was most closely associated with his pitch to convert national measurements to the metric system (and that ended after only four months). He still believes he deserved a longer look. “I was in favor of bringing Snowden home, stopping drone strikes, ending capital punishment,” Mr. Chafee said. “But everyone screamed about metric.” He contends that the instincts that led him into the 2016 contest, despite Hillary Clinton’s overwhelming advantages, were validated by Senator Bernie Sanders’s strong showing. “I always thought there was room for somebody to take off,” Mr. Chafee said. “I was right. It just wasn’t me.”   Supported by Good Tuesday morning. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today. _____________________ • A manager in the White House’s Personnel Security Office said senior administration officials granted security clearances to at least 25 people whose applications had been denied by career employees. We don’t know who the people are yet, but we do know the applications were originally rejected for reasons including foreign influence and conflicts of interest. • Hours after a House panel released her deposition, the White House whistle-blower, Tricia Newbold, did something unexpected: She went back to work. • A second woman has accused Joe Biden of touching her in a way that made her feel uncomfortable, intensifying the scrutiny of the former vice president’s physical interactions with women as he prepares for a likely presidential bid. • The National Rifle Association is trying to defeat a provision in the new Violence Against Women Act that could deny firearms to abusive boyfriends. But the N.R.A.’s power on Capitol Hill is increasingly being challenged. • Democrats are not satisfied with the attorney general’s assurances that he will deliver a full, albeit redacted, copy of the special counsel’s report to Congress by mid-April. So they’re preparing to vote to subpoena the full report. • President Trump, famously fixated on the popularity of his brand, may not like how it’s faring by one metric. His “E-score,” which marketers and advertisers use to gauge a public figure’s appeal, is not pretty. • A trade deal with China would probably include a promise from the country to buy billions’ worth of American goods. But executing that pledge would reinforce the Chinese state’s role in the economy, something the Trump administration doesn’t want. • Months after the success of rare bipartisan legislation overhauling the criminal justice system, Mr. Trump is putting the issue front and center. But his budget allocates only $14 million for the law’s programs, a fraction of what the legislation calls for. The White House promised to close the gap. • In a 5-to-4 decision, the Supreme Court ruled that Missouri may execute a prisoner by lethal injection despite a medical condition that he says will result in an excruciating death. • Senator Kamala Harris announced on Monday that her 2020 campaign raised $12 million in the first quarter, which will probably make her one of the best-funded competitors in the Democratic primary. • And Pete Buttigieg said his campaign had raised more than $7 million in that same time frame, a significant sum for a mayor who was little known outside of South Bend, Ind., a few months ago. • A lawsuit has turned Holland Christian High School, the alma mater of Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos, into Exhibit A as Ms. DeVos moves to overhaul the law that governs school sexual assault. • Will Venezuela be the place where Mr. Trump, who has often seemed to tolerate Russian provocations, finally draws a red line? _____________________ Today’s On Politics briefing was compiled by Isabella Grullón Paz in New York. Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.

Supported by Good Tuesday morning. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today. _____________________ • A manager in the White House’s Personnel Security Office said senior administration officials granted security clearances to at least 25 people whose applications had been denied by career employees. We don’t know who the people are yet, but we do know the applications were originally rejected for reasons including foreign influence and conflicts of interest. • Hours after a House panel released her deposition, the White House whistle-blower, Tricia Newbold, did something unexpected: She went back to work. • A second woman has accused Joe Biden of touching her in a way that made her feel uncomfortable, intensifying the scrutiny of the former vice president’s physical interactions with women as he prepares for a likely presidential bid. • The National Rifle Association is trying to defeat a provision in the new Violence Against Women Act that could deny firearms to abusive boyfriends. But the N.R.A.’s power on Capitol Hill is increasingly being challenged. • Democrats are not satisfied with the attorney general’s assurances that he will deliver a full, albeit redacted, copy of the special counsel’s report to Congress by mid-April. So they’re preparing to vote to subpoena the full report. • President Trump, famously fixated on the popularity of his brand, may not like how it’s faring by one metric. His “E-score,” which marketers and advertisers use to gauge a public figure’s appeal, is not pretty. • A trade deal with China would probably include a promise from the country to buy billions’ worth of American goods. But executing that pledge would reinforce the Chinese state’s role in the economy, something the Trump administration doesn’t want. • Months after the success of rare bipartisan legislation overhauling the criminal justice system, Mr. Trump is putting the issue front and center. But his budget allocates only $14 million for the law’s programs, a fraction of what the legislation calls for. The White House promised to close the gap. • In a 5-to-4 decision, the Supreme Court ruled that Missouri may execute a prisoner by lethal injection despite a medical condition that he says will result in an excruciating death. • Senator Kamala Harris announced on Monday that her 2020 campaign raised $12 million in the first quarter, which will probably make her one of the best-funded competitors in the Democratic primary. • And Pete Buttigieg said his campaign had raised more than $7 million in that same time frame, a significant sum for a mayor who was little known outside of South Bend, Ind., a few months ago. • A lawsuit has turned Holland Christian High School, the alma mater of Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos, into Exhibit A as Ms. DeVos moves to overhaul the law that governs school sexual assault. • Will Venezuela be the place where Mr. Trump, who has often seemed to tolerate Russian provocations, finally draws a red line? _____________________ Today’s On Politics briefing was compiled by Isabella Grullón Paz in New York. Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.Supported by Good Thursday morning. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today. _____________________ • President Trump said he would deliver his State of the Union address after the federal government reopens, capping a day of brinkmanship with Speaker Nancy Pelosi. His apparent capitulation came even as House Democrats said they were prepared to give him a substantial sum of money for border security — but not for a wall, and not until he agreed to reopen the government. • Michael Cohen, Mr. Trump’s former lawyer, indefinitely postponed his congressional testimony. His lawyer cited the president’s attacks on Mr. Cohen’s family. • Lawyers representing Paul Manafort strongly denied claims by the special counsel’s prosecutors that Mr. Manafort repeatedly lied to them, stating that the prosecutors had wrongly interpreted honest memory lapses and innocent misstatements. • Three weeks before the midterm elections, former Vice President Joe Biden collected $200,000 to speak to a Republican-leaning audience in Michigan, praising a G.O.P. candidate who narrowly won his election. The episode, which stunned Democrats, underlines Mr. Biden’s vulnerabilities in the fight for his party’s presidential nomination. • Representative Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat from Texas, will resign as chairwoman of the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation after facing fallout from a lawsuit claiming that she fired an aide who said she was sexually assaulted by a supervisor at the foundation. • Pete Buttigieg, the 37-year-old mayor of South Bend, Ind., announced that he was entering the Democratic presidential primary. A long-shot candidate, he may test the appeal of a youthful, Midwestern profile over more traditional qualifications for the presidency. • In the midst of a trade war and government shutdown, America’s corporate leaders are optimistic that 2019 will bring revenue growth, largely based on Mr. Trump’s impending deal with China. But they seem to be increasingly isolated in that view. • Former President Bill Clinton is writing a new book about his life after the presidency, but it’s unknown whether it will address Hillary Clinton’s runs for president or his personal misconduct with women. _____________________ Today’s On Politics briefing was compiled by Margaret Kramer in New York. Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.

Supported by Good Thursday morning. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today. _____________________ • President Trump said he would deliver his State of the Union address after the federal government reopens, capping a day of brinkmanship with Speaker Nancy Pelosi. His apparent capitulation came even as House Democrats said they were prepared to give him a substantial sum of money for border security — but not for a wall, and not until he agreed to reopen the government. • Michael Cohen, Mr. Trump’s former lawyer, indefinitely postponed his congressional testimony. His lawyer cited the president’s attacks on Mr. Cohen’s family. • Lawyers representing Paul Manafort strongly denied claims by the special counsel’s prosecutors that Mr. Manafort repeatedly lied to them, stating that the prosecutors had wrongly interpreted honest memory lapses and innocent misstatements. • Three weeks before the midterm elections, former Vice President Joe Biden collected $200,000 to speak to a Republican-leaning audience in Michigan, praising a G.O.P. candidate who narrowly won his election. The episode, which stunned Democrats, underlines Mr. Biden’s vulnerabilities in the fight for his party’s presidential nomination. • Representative Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat from Texas, will resign as chairwoman of the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation after facing fallout from a lawsuit claiming that she fired an aide who said she was sexually assaulted by a supervisor at the foundation. • Pete Buttigieg, the 37-year-old mayor of South Bend, Ind., announced that he was entering the Democratic presidential primary. A long-shot candidate, he may test the appeal of a youthful, Midwestern profile over more traditional qualifications for the presidency. • In the midst of a trade war and government shutdown, America’s corporate leaders are optimistic that 2019 will bring revenue growth, largely based on Mr. Trump’s impending deal with China. But they seem to be increasingly isolated in that view. • Former President Bill Clinton is writing a new book about his life after the presidency, but it’s unknown whether it will address Hillary Clinton’s runs for president or his personal misconduct with women. _____________________ Today’s On Politics briefing was compiled by Margaret Kramer in New York. Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.Supported by Another 2020 candidate with natural appeal to swing voters opts not to run. By David Leonhardt Opinion Columnist This article is part of David Leonhardt’s newsletter. You can sign up here to receive it each weekday. Sherrod Brown yesterday joined the list of Democrats who are a) well positioned to appeal to swing voters and b) not running for president in 2020. Others on that list include Deval Patrick, Mitch Landrieu and Michael Bloomberg. I’m not shocked by Brown’s decision. He isn’t very well-known nationally, despite his impressive record of winning elections in Ohio. And if he had run, he would have had to contend with discussion of his ugly 1986 divorce, during which his ex-wife accused him of mistreatment (although she now supports him).  Brown’s demurral adds to the importance of the decisions facing Joe Biden and Beto O’Rourke. They remain the last high-profile candidates who are likely to build a presidential campaign at least in part around appealing to swing voters — as well as the roughly half of Democratic voters who identify as moderate or conservative. [Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.] Biden and O’Rourke both appear likely to run. Both also have their flaws. Biden has not been a strong or disciplined candidate during his two previous presidential campaigns, in 1988 and 2008. He also has a long, complicated record in public life. The Washington Post reported yesterday on comments that he made in 1975 expressing skepticism over desegregation and affirmative action. Those positions won’t help him in the 2020 primary. As for O’Rourke, it’s still not clear how good of a candidate he will be when subjected to the intense scrutiny of a presidential race. He has run only one high-profile campaign so far, his 2018 Senate campaign against Ted Cruz. He did impressively well for a Democrat in Texas, but he didn’t win.  There are other candidates and potential candidates who could build a campaign around electability and appeals to swing voters. But if none of them catches fire — candidates like Cory Booker, Amy Klobuchar, John Hickenlooper, Pete Buttigieg and John Delaney — and if both Biden and O’Rourke struggle, the Democratic campaign could have a fascinating dynamic. The party’s more moderate voters could effectively decide which of the more strongly progressive candidates — like Kamala Harris, Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders — will win the nomination. The Manafort sentence Paul Manafort, President Trump’s former campaign chairman, was sentenced yesterday to less than four years in prison, far less than what the sentencing guidelines said his financial crimes deserved.  “For context on Manafort’s 47 months in prison, my client yesterday was offered 36-72 months in prison for stealing $100 worth of quarters from a residential laundry room,” tweeted Scott Hechinger, a public defender in Brooklyn. Hechinger went on to describe several other such examples.  “To be clear: I’m not advocating here or anywhere for worse treatment for all. Just wish my clients received same treatment as the privileged few,” he wrote. If you are not a subscriber to this newsletter, you can subscribe here. You can also join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt • Facebook 

Supported by Another 2020 candidate with natural appeal to swing voters opts not to run. By David Leonhardt Opinion Columnist This article is part of David Leonhardt’s newsletter. You can sign up here to receive it each weekday. Sherrod Brown yesterday joined the list of Democrats who are a) well positioned to appeal to swing voters and b) not running for president in 2020. Others on that list include Deval Patrick, Mitch Landrieu and Michael Bloomberg. I’m not shocked by Brown’s decision. He isn’t very well-known nationally, despite his impressive record of winning elections in Ohio. And if he had run, he would have had to contend with discussion of his ugly 1986 divorce, during which his ex-wife accused him of mistreatment (although she now supports him).  Brown’s demurral adds to the importance of the decisions facing Joe Biden and Beto O’Rourke. They remain the last high-profile candidates who are likely to build a presidential campaign at least in part around appealing to swing voters — as well as the roughly half of Democratic voters who identify as moderate or conservative. [Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.] Biden and O’Rourke both appear likely to run. Both also have their flaws. Biden has not been a strong or disciplined candidate during his two previous presidential campaigns, in 1988 and 2008. He also has a long, complicated record in public life. The Washington Post reported yesterday on comments that he made in 1975 expressing skepticism over desegregation and affirmative action. Those positions won’t help him in the 2020 primary. As for O’Rourke, it’s still not clear how good of a candidate he will be when subjected to the intense scrutiny of a presidential race. He has run only one high-profile campaign so far, his 2018 Senate campaign against Ted Cruz. He did impressively well for a Democrat in Texas, but he didn’t win.  There are other candidates and potential candidates who could build a campaign around electability and appeals to swing voters. But if none of them catches fire — candidates like Cory Booker, Amy Klobuchar, John Hickenlooper, Pete Buttigieg and John Delaney — and if both Biden and O’Rourke struggle, the Democratic campaign could have a fascinating dynamic. The party’s more moderate voters could effectively decide which of the more strongly progressive candidates — like Kamala Harris, Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders — will win the nomination. The Manafort sentence Paul Manafort, President Trump’s former campaign chairman, was sentenced yesterday to less than four years in prison, far less than what the sentencing guidelines said his financial crimes deserved.  “For context on Manafort’s 47 months in prison, my client yesterday was offered 36-72 months in prison for stealing $100 worth of quarters from a residential laundry room,” tweeted Scott Hechinger, a public defender in Brooklyn. Hechinger went on to describe several other such examples.  “To be clear: I’m not advocating here or anywhere for worse treatment for all. Just wish my clients received same treatment as the privileged few,” he wrote. If you are not a subscriber to this newsletter, you can subscribe here. You can also join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt • Facebook Supported by By Matt Flegenheimer and Jonathan Martin Senator Elizabeth Warren, who has worked for months to find traction in a crowded Democratic presidential primary, stepped forward on Friday with a call to arms: President Trump must be impeached. What followed, generally, was conspicuous silence — and not just from her colleagues in Congress. After sidestepping the explosive issue of impeachment for months by citing the inquiry by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, most of the other 17 Democratic presidential candidates have responded to the special counsel’s report with tentative remarks about impeaching Mr. Trump, demands for the unredacted Mueller findings, calls for further hearings or attempts to simply change the subject. Anything, that is, to avoid clearly answering the question of whether lawmakers should remove the president from office. Underpinning the candidates’ calculations are complex sets of short- and long-term incentives. Democratic hopefuls could receive a fund-raising boost by embracing impeachment and energizing liberal donors. But some strategists and lawmakers say that a failed effort would only strengthen Mr. Trump’s re-election chances, allowing him to claim further vindication. And many of the candidates, facing a Democratic electorate appalled by Mr. Trump and eager to see him out of office, are weighing whether to risk alienating some progressives by staying silent or to call for impeachment and create a divide with top Democrats in Washington who oppose it. [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] For now, according to interviews with multiple Democratic campaign officials, most of the candidates feel no pressure to demand Mr. Trump’s impeachment because they simply do not hear a mass clamoring for it on the campaign trail. And in their polling, impeachment is not a top priority for the party’s voters, who say they are more motivated by defeating Mr. Trump in 2020 and seeing their desired policy agenda put in place. The Democratic contenders see the Mueller report mostly as a way to build their fund-raising and supporter lists and, ultimately, as a 448-page blunt instrument best used for thwacking the president in next year’s campaign for his behavior. Indeed, many candidates signaled this weekend that they had no plans to lead a charge for impeachment — Ms. Warren’s campaign hastened to note she would remain focused on her policy platform — and would instead defer to House Democrats. At least two prominent contenders, Mayor Pete Buttigieg of South Bend, Ind., and former Representative Beto O’Rourke of Texas, equivocated on how to proceed even as they acknowledged that they personally believed the president probably should be impeached. “I’m pretty sure he deserves to be,” Mr. Buttigieg said while campaigning in Londonderry, N.H. “But Congress will have to figure procedurally what to do.” “I wouldn’t blame any member of the House for voting for this,” Mr. O’Rourke said during an appearance in Nashua, N.H. He supported impeachment as a Senate candidate last year, but now suggests that the issue would be best resolved by the voters in November 2020. [Who’s in? Who’s out? Keep up with the 2020 field with our candidate tracker.] This measured response is partly a function of timing. Party activists have absorbed accounts of Mr. Trump’s aberrant behavior for nearly four years now, dating to the start of his presidential bid. As a result, Mr. Mueller’s report packed less shock value for Democrats who did not need his imprimatur to believe that Mr. Trump’s actions rise to the level of impeachable as well as criminal offenses. And for progressives who closely follow politics, the presidential race is well underway and the defeat of Mr. Trump is, they hope, just around the corner. Polls show that while a majority of Democrats still favor impeachment, support has waned in recent months as liberals move closer to a plausible end to the Trump presidency without congressional intervention. Many Democratic voters are also as cleareyed as their elected leaders about the Republican Party’s wide-scale deference to Mr. Trump — and the implausibility of congressional Republicans aiding his ouster. The country is far more polarized now than it was when President Richard Nixon resigned rather than face impeachment, and Republican lawmakers today fear the wrath of Mr. Trump and his loyal supporters far more than they do any punishment from a dwindling band of swing voters. A few Republicans did respond to the report with alarm, most notably Senator Mitt Romney of Utah, who said he was “sickened at the extent and pervasiveness of dishonesty and misdirection” by the president and some in his circle. But the nonchalant reaction from the vast majority of Mr. Trump’s party only reinforced to many Democratic activists that impeachment would be fruitless. “It galvanizes Trump supporters,” said Larry Drake, the chairman of the Rockingham County Democrats in New Hampshire, adding that he was quite certain that the president had committed impeachable offenses. “If he’s not convicted in the Senate, he can say, ‘Look, I was right! This was just a witch hunt.’ ” Mr. Drake has encountered fierce dissent from the pro-impeachment side in his own home. “My wife and I have been having a dialogue about this,” he said. “I guess that would be the nice way to put it.” Other Democrats say the party is making the matter more complicated than it needs to be, insisting that an impeachment case makes both civic and political sense. The civic argument: If lawmakers truly believe Mr. Trump deserves impeachment, how can political fears be allowed to override constitutional duties? The political one: The party can do more than one thing at a time. Candidates can campaign on other issues, as Ms. Warren says she will continue doing, while congressional Democrats build on Mr. Mueller’s findings. Besides, supporters of impeachment ask, why is anyone so sure that Mr. Trump would benefit from the public flogging of impeachment hearings during a campaign? “We reinforce his Teflon-ness by buying into this,” said Jennifer Palmieri, a former senior aide to Hillary Clinton and President Barack Obama. “Whether or not he’s Teflon is up to you, as a member of Congress.” Ms. Palmieri said Democrats had learned the wrong lessons from past episodes like the Republican push to impeach President Bill Clinton, which is thought to have hampered Republicans’ midterm performance in 1998 amid voter concerns about investigative overreach. “They look to the past, but you’ve got to look to the moment you’re in. And look at the moment we’re in,” Ms. Palmieri said of fellow Democrats. “It’s a self-fulfilling prophecy. If you stop pursuing what Mueller is putting in front of them, of course voters aren’t going to think it’s important. Voters respond to leadership.” And as Representative Steve Cohen of Tennessee observed, Mr. Trump’s 2020 campaign message will most likely be centered on incendiary attacks on the Democrats’ policy and identity more than on their efforts to hold him accountable. “Trump will have his team stoke on socialism or the ‘ism’ of the day, and impeachment will not be the siren needed to rally the base,” said Mr. Cohen, a Democratic member of the House Judiciary Committee. But Democrats in Washington are perhaps even more divided on the subject than the candidates for president are. While some progressive newcomers, like Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York, have called for impeachment proceedings, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and others in leadership have signaled a strong aversion, often echoed in the rank-and-file. Representative Emanuel Cleaver, Democrat of Missouri, said an impeachment effort would only help Mr. Trump’s cause and fuel his supporters’ feelings of grievance, without especially benefiting Democrats. “If we impeach Donald Trump, he would never be convicted in the Senate,” Mr. Cleaver said, referring to the Republican-held chamber’s role in an impeachment process. “And he would be able to campaign all around the country saying, ‘I’ve been acquitted!’” For some Democratic primary contenders, the demands may be different, reflecting the political realities of trying to establish a foothold in what is currently an 18-person field. In addition to Ms. Warren, former Mayor Julián Castro told CNN on Friday that initiating impeachment proceedings would be “perfectly reasonable.” The willingness of both contenders to support impeachment hearings amounts to a refusal to engage in the political gymnastics of their rivals — but also highlights the urgency they feel about their own campaigns. Mr. Castro has struggled to gain ground and is still working to attract enough individual donors to qualify for the first Democratic debate in June. Ms. Warren has remained in the middle of the pack despite entering the race before any other major candidate and unveiling an array of ambitious policy proposals. Ms. Warren has also sought to distinguish herself by refusing, at least in the primary, to appeal to major donors. This has increased pressure on her to raise money online from small-dollar givers. And in the hours after she announced her support for impeachment, she made the most of it, appearing on Rachel Maddow’s MSNBC show, the preferred programming of Mueller-minded Democrats, and posting a clip of it on her social media accounts. By midday Saturday, Ms. Warren had promoted her new stance on Instagram three times in less than 24 hours, adding a video clip from an appearance in Keene, N.H., earlier that day. “There are some things that are bigger than politics,” she told the crowd there, to cheers. “This is one of them.” But elsewhere on the trail, the Mueller report was little discussed. Campaigning in South Carolina after the document’s release, Senator Bernie Sanders held forth largely on affordable housing and the consequences of gentrification. At last, on Saturday morning, Mr. Sanders posted a video targeting Mr. Trump on Twitter — for breaking promises to manufacturing workers in the industrial Midwest. Matt Flegenheimer reported from New York and Jonathan Martin from Londonderry, N.H. Matt Stevens contributed reporting.   

Supported by By Matt Flegenheimer and Jonathan Martin Senator Elizabeth Warren, who has worked for months to find traction in a crowded Democratic presidential primary, stepped forward on Friday with a call to arms: President Trump must be impeached. What followed, generally, was conspicuous silence — and not just from her colleagues in Congress. After sidestepping the explosive issue of impeachment for months by citing the inquiry by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, most of the other 17 Democratic presidential candidates have responded to the special counsel’s report with tentative remarks about impeaching Mr. Trump, demands for the unredacted Mueller findings, calls for further hearings or attempts to simply change the subject. Anything, that is, to avoid clearly answering the question of whether lawmakers should remove the president from office. Underpinning the candidates’ calculations are complex sets of short- and long-term incentives. Democratic hopefuls could receive a fund-raising boost by embracing impeachment and energizing liberal donors. But some strategists and lawmakers say that a failed effort would only strengthen Mr. Trump’s re-election chances, allowing him to claim further vindication. And many of the candidates, facing a Democratic electorate appalled by Mr. Trump and eager to see him out of office, are weighing whether to risk alienating some progressives by staying silent or to call for impeachment and create a divide with top Democrats in Washington who oppose it. [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] For now, according to interviews with multiple Democratic campaign officials, most of the candidates feel no pressure to demand Mr. Trump’s impeachment because they simply do not hear a mass clamoring for it on the campaign trail. And in their polling, impeachment is not a top priority for the party’s voters, who say they are more motivated by defeating Mr. Trump in 2020 and seeing their desired policy agenda put in place. The Democratic contenders see the Mueller report mostly as a way to build their fund-raising and supporter lists and, ultimately, as a 448-page blunt instrument best used for thwacking the president in next year’s campaign for his behavior. Indeed, many candidates signaled this weekend that they had no plans to lead a charge for impeachment — Ms. Warren’s campaign hastened to note she would remain focused on her policy platform — and would instead defer to House Democrats. At least two prominent contenders, Mayor Pete Buttigieg of South Bend, Ind., and former Representative Beto O’Rourke of Texas, equivocated on how to proceed even as they acknowledged that they personally believed the president probably should be impeached. “I’m pretty sure he deserves to be,” Mr. Buttigieg said while campaigning in Londonderry, N.H. “But Congress will have to figure procedurally what to do.” “I wouldn’t blame any member of the House for voting for this,” Mr. O’Rourke said during an appearance in Nashua, N.H. He supported impeachment as a Senate candidate last year, but now suggests that the issue would be best resolved by the voters in November 2020. [Who’s in? Who’s out? Keep up with the 2020 field with our candidate tracker.] This measured response is partly a function of timing. Party activists have absorbed accounts of Mr. Trump’s aberrant behavior for nearly four years now, dating to the start of his presidential bid. As a result, Mr. Mueller’s report packed less shock value for Democrats who did not need his imprimatur to believe that Mr. Trump’s actions rise to the level of impeachable as well as criminal offenses. And for progressives who closely follow politics, the presidential race is well underway and the defeat of Mr. Trump is, they hope, just around the corner. Polls show that while a majority of Democrats still favor impeachment, support has waned in recent months as liberals move closer to a plausible end to the Trump presidency without congressional intervention. Many Democratic voters are also as cleareyed as their elected leaders about the Republican Party’s wide-scale deference to Mr. Trump — and the implausibility of congressional Republicans aiding his ouster. The country is far more polarized now than it was when President Richard Nixon resigned rather than face impeachment, and Republican lawmakers today fear the wrath of Mr. Trump and his loyal supporters far more than they do any punishment from a dwindling band of swing voters. A few Republicans did respond to the report with alarm, most notably Senator Mitt Romney of Utah, who said he was “sickened at the extent and pervasiveness of dishonesty and misdirection” by the president and some in his circle. But the nonchalant reaction from the vast majority of Mr. Trump’s party only reinforced to many Democratic activists that impeachment would be fruitless. “It galvanizes Trump supporters,” said Larry Drake, the chairman of the Rockingham County Democrats in New Hampshire, adding that he was quite certain that the president had committed impeachable offenses. “If he’s not convicted in the Senate, he can say, ‘Look, I was right! This was just a witch hunt.’ ” Mr. Drake has encountered fierce dissent from the pro-impeachment side in his own home. “My wife and I have been having a dialogue about this,” he said. “I guess that would be the nice way to put it.” Other Democrats say the party is making the matter more complicated than it needs to be, insisting that an impeachment case makes both civic and political sense. The civic argument: If lawmakers truly believe Mr. Trump deserves impeachment, how can political fears be allowed to override constitutional duties? The political one: The party can do more than one thing at a time. Candidates can campaign on other issues, as Ms. Warren says she will continue doing, while congressional Democrats build on Mr. Mueller’s findings. Besides, supporters of impeachment ask, why is anyone so sure that Mr. Trump would benefit from the public flogging of impeachment hearings during a campaign? “We reinforce his Teflon-ness by buying into this,” said Jennifer Palmieri, a former senior aide to Hillary Clinton and President Barack Obama. “Whether or not he’s Teflon is up to you, as a member of Congress.” Ms. Palmieri said Democrats had learned the wrong lessons from past episodes like the Republican push to impeach President Bill Clinton, which is thought to have hampered Republicans’ midterm performance in 1998 amid voter concerns about investigative overreach. “They look to the past, but you’ve got to look to the moment you’re in. And look at the moment we’re in,” Ms. Palmieri said of fellow Democrats. “It’s a self-fulfilling prophecy. If you stop pursuing what Mueller is putting in front of them, of course voters aren’t going to think it’s important. Voters respond to leadership.” And as Representative Steve Cohen of Tennessee observed, Mr. Trump’s 2020 campaign message will most likely be centered on incendiary attacks on the Democrats’ policy and identity more than on their efforts to hold him accountable. “Trump will have his team stoke on socialism or the ‘ism’ of the day, and impeachment will not be the siren needed to rally the base,” said Mr. Cohen, a Democratic member of the House Judiciary Committee. But Democrats in Washington are perhaps even more divided on the subject than the candidates for president are. While some progressive newcomers, like Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York, have called for impeachment proceedings, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and others in leadership have signaled a strong aversion, often echoed in the rank-and-file. Representative Emanuel Cleaver, Democrat of Missouri, said an impeachment effort would only help Mr. Trump’s cause and fuel his supporters’ feelings of grievance, without especially benefiting Democrats. “If we impeach Donald Trump, he would never be convicted in the Senate,” Mr. Cleaver said, referring to the Republican-held chamber’s role in an impeachment process. “And he would be able to campaign all around the country saying, ‘I’ve been acquitted!’” For some Democratic primary contenders, the demands may be different, reflecting the political realities of trying to establish a foothold in what is currently an 18-person field. In addition to Ms. Warren, former Mayor Julián Castro told CNN on Friday that initiating impeachment proceedings would be “perfectly reasonable.” The willingness of both contenders to support impeachment hearings amounts to a refusal to engage in the political gymnastics of their rivals — but also highlights the urgency they feel about their own campaigns. Mr. Castro has struggled to gain ground and is still working to attract enough individual donors to qualify for the first Democratic debate in June. Ms. Warren has remained in the middle of the pack despite entering the race before any other major candidate and unveiling an array of ambitious policy proposals. Ms. Warren has also sought to distinguish herself by refusing, at least in the primary, to appeal to major donors. This has increased pressure on her to raise money online from small-dollar givers. And in the hours after she announced her support for impeachment, she made the most of it, appearing on Rachel Maddow’s MSNBC show, the preferred programming of Mueller-minded Democrats, and posting a clip of it on her social media accounts. By midday Saturday, Ms. Warren had promoted her new stance on Instagram three times in less than 24 hours, adding a video clip from an appearance in Keene, N.H., earlier that day. “There are some things that are bigger than politics,” she told the crowd there, to cheers. “This is one of them.” But elsewhere on the trail, the Mueller report was little discussed. Campaigning in South Carolina after the document’s release, Senator Bernie Sanders held forth largely on affordable housing and the consequences of gentrification. At last, on Saturday morning, Mr. Sanders posted a video targeting Mr. Trump on Twitter — for breaking promises to manufacturing workers in the industrial Midwest. Matt Flegenheimer reported from New York and Jonathan Martin from Londonderry, N.H. Matt Stevens contributed reporting.   Supported by By Maggie Haberman President Trump on Friday targeted Representative Ilhan Omar for remarks she made during a speech on civil rights and Muslims in America with a graphic video featuring the burning World Trade Center towers and other images from Sept. 11, 2001, that he tweeted to millions of his followers. The Twitter post from the president stoked and amplified a controversy that has been a focus of conservative news outlets, which have sought to elevate Ms. Omar — a Minnesota Democrat and one of the first Muslim women elected to Congress — as a political target, as Mr. Trump’s re-election campaign begins in earnest. At issue were remarks that Ms. Omar made last month at an event hosted by the Council on American-Islamic Relations. There, she gave a speech in which she addressed lingering fear directed at Muslims, and the rights Muslims have to speak out about being viewed with suspicion. During the speech, she said that Muslims had “lived with the discomfort of being a second-class citizen and, frankly, I’m tired of it, and every single Muslim in this country should be tired of it.” She added that the council was created after the Sept. 11 attacks “because they recognized that some people did something and that all of us were starting to lose access to our civil liberties.” (The Council on American-Islamic Relations was actually founded in 1994.) Conservative news outlets and some Republican officials have focused on the words “some people did something,” arguing that Ms. Omar was playing down the attacks that killed more than 3,000 people and led to two yearslong wars. The video the president tweeted also focused on those four words from Ms. Omar’s speech. A spokesman for Ms. Omar has said the speech was addressing civil rights. Ms. Omar has already been the focus of threats, including one by a supporter of Mr. Trump who was recently arrested. Ms. Omar’s closest ally in the House, Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Democrat of New York, used Twitter to defend her colleague and urged others to do the same. “Members of Congress have a duty to respond to the President’s explicit attack today,” she tweeted. “@IlhanMN’s life is in danger. For our colleagues to be silent is to be complicit in the outright, dangerous targeting of a member of Congress. We must speak out.” She included in her post the famous words of a Lutheran minister, Martin Niemöller, who had been a Nazi sympathizer, about turning his head on the Nazis’ actions during World War II. Senator Bernie Sanders, independent of Vermont, who is running for president as a Democrat, quickly joined Ms. Ocasio-Cortez. “Ilhan Omar is a leader with strength and courage. She won’t back down to Trump’s racism and hate, and neither will we,” he tweeted. “The disgusting and dangerous attacks against her must end.” In a series of tweets, Mayor Pete Buttigieg of South Bend, Ind., a Democratic presidential candidate and a veteran who served in Afghanistan, also criticized Mr. Trump. “After 9/11 we all said we were changed. That we were stronger and more united,” he tweeted. “That’s what ‘never forget’ was about. Now, a president uses that dark day to incite his base against a member of Congress, as if for sport. As if we learned nothing that day about the workings of hate.” Another 2020 presidential candidate, Senator Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts, also chimed in. “The President is inciting violence against a sitting Congresswoman—and an entire group of Americans based on their religion,” she tweeted. “It’s disgusting. It’s shameful. And any elected leader who refuses to condemn it shares responsibility for it.” It was unclear late Friday who made the video that the president tweeted. In recent weeks, his Twitter feed has promoted at least two controversial videos that came from elsewhere on the web.  

Supported by By Maggie Haberman President Trump on Friday targeted Representative Ilhan Omar for remarks she made during a speech on civil rights and Muslims in America with a graphic video featuring the burning World Trade Center towers and other images from Sept. 11, 2001, that he tweeted to millions of his followers. The Twitter post from the president stoked and amplified a controversy that has been a focus of conservative news outlets, which have sought to elevate Ms. Omar — a Minnesota Democrat and one of the first Muslim women elected to Congress — as a political target, as Mr. Trump’s re-election campaign begins in earnest. At issue were remarks that Ms. Omar made last month at an event hosted by the Council on American-Islamic Relations. There, she gave a speech in which she addressed lingering fear directed at Muslims, and the rights Muslims have to speak out about being viewed with suspicion. During the speech, she said that Muslims had “lived with the discomfort of being a second-class citizen and, frankly, I’m tired of it, and every single Muslim in this country should be tired of it.” She added that the council was created after the Sept. 11 attacks “because they recognized that some people did something and that all of us were starting to lose access to our civil liberties.” (The Council on American-Islamic Relations was actually founded in 1994.) Conservative news outlets and some Republican officials have focused on the words “some people did something,” arguing that Ms. Omar was playing down the attacks that killed more than 3,000 people and led to two yearslong wars. The video the president tweeted also focused on those four words from Ms. Omar’s speech. A spokesman for Ms. Omar has said the speech was addressing civil rights. Ms. Omar has already been the focus of threats, including one by a supporter of Mr. Trump who was recently arrested. Ms. Omar’s closest ally in the House, Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Democrat of New York, used Twitter to defend her colleague and urged others to do the same. “Members of Congress have a duty to respond to the President’s explicit attack today,” she tweeted. “@IlhanMN’s life is in danger. For our colleagues to be silent is to be complicit in the outright, dangerous targeting of a member of Congress. We must speak out.” She included in her post the famous words of a Lutheran minister, Martin Niemöller, who had been a Nazi sympathizer, about turning his head on the Nazis’ actions during World War II. Senator Bernie Sanders, independent of Vermont, who is running for president as a Democrat, quickly joined Ms. Ocasio-Cortez. “Ilhan Omar is a leader with strength and courage. She won’t back down to Trump’s racism and hate, and neither will we,” he tweeted. “The disgusting and dangerous attacks against her must end.” In a series of tweets, Mayor Pete Buttigieg of South Bend, Ind., a Democratic presidential candidate and a veteran who served in Afghanistan, also criticized Mr. Trump. “After 9/11 we all said we were changed. That we were stronger and more united,” he tweeted. “That’s what ‘never forget’ was about. Now, a president uses that dark day to incite his base against a member of Congress, as if for sport. As if we learned nothing that day about the workings of hate.” Another 2020 presidential candidate, Senator Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts, also chimed in. “The President is inciting violence against a sitting Congresswoman—and an entire group of Americans based on their religion,” she tweeted. “It’s disgusting. It’s shameful. And any elected leader who refuses to condemn it shares responsibility for it.” It was unclear late Friday who made the video that the president tweeted. In recent weeks, his Twitter feed has promoted at least two controversial videos that came from elsewhere on the web.  Supported by By The Associated Press NEWARK, N.J. — Mired in the 2020 pack, Democratic presidential candidate Cory Booker returned on Saturday to the city where he earned his political chops, hoping for a surge as he undertakes a two-week tour around the country and expressing confidence to supporters that he, like the country he wants to lead, "will rise." The New Jersey senator joined the race more than two months ago, capped by an appearance before reporters outside his Newark home and with a call for the country to unite in a time of sharp division. He emphasized that theme in Saturday's rally, billed as a campaign kickoff, with the goal of gaining political momentum and distinguishing himself from among his dozen-plus rivals. "Critics will tell us that a campaign powered by grace and love and a deep faith in each other" cannot prevail, Booker said. "But I say it's the only way we win. The president wants a race to the gutter and to fight us in the gutter. To win, we have to fight from higher ground in order to bring this country to higher ground." Booker has made early voting states a priority during his 10 weeks in the race, yet he remains bunched among the contenders, with poll numbers in the single digits. Nonetheless, his campaign is projecting confidence that he doesn't have to lead early to succeed with a strategy built more on grassroots enthusiasm than national buzz. "We're trying to win the election — we're not trying to win a news cycle," campaign manager Addisu Demissie told reporters this past week, describing the approach as "organize and get hot at the end." And to win, Booker said he would work to "make justice real for all." The former Newark mayor and his team know that building a higher profile requires some bigger swings for attention that spotlight his oratory skills. Saturday's rally before a friendly crowd was intended to give the campaign a chance "to keep Cory front and center with the voters, which is how you break out here," as Demissie put it. "You need to be visible." The first stops on Booker's national tour are in Iowa, Georgia and Nevada. The themes he pressed at the rally included ending "mass incarcerations" and "the school to prison pipeline," passing gun control measures such as universal background checks and an assault weapons ban and advancing "Medicare for All." He wants to enact "comprehensive immigration reform" that also provides a path to citizenship for young immigrants who are in the country illegally and end "the sabotage" of the Obama-era health care law. He pledged to appoint Supreme Court justices who will defend the landmark ruling that legalized abortion. "Together, we will fulfill our pledge to be a nation of liberty and justice for all. Together, we will win. And together, America, we will rise," Booker said. His campaign announcement in February emphasized the importance of "common purpose" in politics, a message he's since expanded on to trumpet his successful work on bipartisan measures, such as the criminal justice reform bill that President Donald Trump signed last year. "There are some folks that want to criticize you for getting into the sausage-making, for making compromises and horse-trading, but when I walk around my neighborhood now, folk come out and tell me, 'Thank you for doing that bill,'" Booker told New York-based radio show "Ebro in the Morning" on Friday. Booker, 49, raised more than $5 million in the first quarter of the year, his campaign said, which is less than higher-polling candidates Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont and former Texas Rep. Beto O'Rourke reported raising in their first 24 hours in the race. That sum ranks Booker behind at least six contenders, including South Bend, Indiana, Mayor Pete Buttigieg, who raked in $7 million. ___ Associated Press writer Hunter Woodall in Concord, New Hampshire, contributed to this report.

Supported by By The Associated Press NEWARK, N.J. — Mired in the 2020 pack, Democratic presidential candidate Cory Booker returned on Saturday to the city where he earned his political chops, hoping for a surge as he undertakes a two-week tour around the country and expressing confidence to supporters that he, like the country he wants to lead, "will rise." The New Jersey senator joined the race more than two months ago, capped by an appearance before reporters outside his Newark home and with a call for the country to unite in a time of sharp division. He emphasized that theme in Saturday's rally, billed as a campaign kickoff, with the goal of gaining political momentum and distinguishing himself from among his dozen-plus rivals. "Critics will tell us that a campaign powered by grace and love and a deep faith in each other" cannot prevail, Booker said. "But I say it's the only way we win. The president wants a race to the gutter and to fight us in the gutter. To win, we have to fight from higher ground in order to bring this country to higher ground." Booker has made early voting states a priority during his 10 weeks in the race, yet he remains bunched among the contenders, with poll numbers in the single digits. Nonetheless, his campaign is projecting confidence that he doesn't have to lead early to succeed with a strategy built more on grassroots enthusiasm than national buzz. "We're trying to win the election — we're not trying to win a news cycle," campaign manager Addisu Demissie told reporters this past week, describing the approach as "organize and get hot at the end." And to win, Booker said he would work to "make justice real for all." The former Newark mayor and his team know that building a higher profile requires some bigger swings for attention that spotlight his oratory skills. Saturday's rally before a friendly crowd was intended to give the campaign a chance "to keep Cory front and center with the voters, which is how you break out here," as Demissie put it. "You need to be visible." The first stops on Booker's national tour are in Iowa, Georgia and Nevada. The themes he pressed at the rally included ending "mass incarcerations" and "the school to prison pipeline," passing gun control measures such as universal background checks and an assault weapons ban and advancing "Medicare for All." He wants to enact "comprehensive immigration reform" that also provides a path to citizenship for young immigrants who are in the country illegally and end "the sabotage" of the Obama-era health care law. He pledged to appoint Supreme Court justices who will defend the landmark ruling that legalized abortion. "Together, we will fulfill our pledge to be a nation of liberty and justice for all. Together, we will win. And together, America, we will rise," Booker said. His campaign announcement in February emphasized the importance of "common purpose" in politics, a message he's since expanded on to trumpet his successful work on bipartisan measures, such as the criminal justice reform bill that President Donald Trump signed last year. "There are some folks that want to criticize you for getting into the sausage-making, for making compromises and horse-trading, but when I walk around my neighborhood now, folk come out and tell me, 'Thank you for doing that bill,'" Booker told New York-based radio show "Ebro in the Morning" on Friday. Booker, 49, raised more than $5 million in the first quarter of the year, his campaign said, which is less than higher-polling candidates Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont and former Texas Rep. Beto O'Rourke reported raising in their first 24 hours in the race. That sum ranks Booker behind at least six contenders, including South Bend, Indiana, Mayor Pete Buttigieg, who raked in $7 million. ___ Associated Press writer Hunter Woodall in Concord, New Hampshire, contributed to this report.Supported by By Thomas Kaplan WASHINGTON — Former Representative Beto O’Rourke of Texas raised $9.4 million over the first 18 days of his presidential bid, his campaign said on Wednesday, the latest sign of his ability to attract online donors even within a packed Democratic field. The total, which represents Mr. O’Rourke’s fund-raising haul for the first quarter of the year, is smaller than the first-quarter numbers of two rivals, Senators Bernie Sanders of Vermont and Kamala Harris of California. But Mr. O’Rourke only joined the presidential race in mid-March. Mr. O’Rourke, who proved to be an extraordinary online fund-raiser during his unsuccessful run for Senate last year, received 218,000 contributions, with an average donation of $43, his campaign said. It also said that a majority of donors to his presidential bid had not donated to his Senate campaign. Mr. O’Rourke raised roughly $80 million for his race against Senator Ted Cruz, an eye-popping total that created high expectations for his fund-raising as a presidential candidate. [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join the conversation around the 2020 presidential race.] After entering the 2020 race, Mr. O’Rourke offered early evidence of his fund-raising power: His campaign said he had received $6.1 million in the first 24 hours of his bid, more than any other Democratic presidential candidate had announced raising in his or her first day. Mr. Sanders had previously been atop the pack, at $5.9 million in 24 hours. That huge first day made up a majority of Mr. O’Rourke’s fund-raising in the first quarter. Mr. Sanders went on to reach a total of $10 million raised within a week of announcing his campaign, his team said, a threshold that Mr. O’Rourke did not meet in 18 days. “There are tremendous expectations for him given his 2018 performance, but he’s now swimming in a much more crowded pond than he was in 2018,” said Amy Walter, the national editor of the Cook Political Report. “And so I think that is going to be something to be watching for over the course of these next few months.” [Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.] Mr. O’Rourke’s campaign said 98 percent of the contributions it received were below $200. The campaign did not say how much cash it currently has. “Not only is this a sign of our grass-roots strength during the first two weeks of our campaign,” Mr. O’Rourke said of his fund-raising in a statement, “but it is a sign of what’s possible when you put your full trust in the people of this country.” Presidential candidates must disclose their first-quarter fund-raising by April 15, but some campaigns decide to make their numbers public before that deadline. Mr. Sanders’s campaign said on Tuesday that he had raised $18.2 million over six weeks, and Ms. Harris’s campaign said on Monday that she had raised $12 million since joining the race in January. Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Ind., said on Monday that he had raised more than $7 million since January. The early fund-raising totals put Mr. Sanders and Mr. O’Rourke in their own class when it comes to bringing in money from grass-roots donors. Mr. Sanders’s campaign said he had not held any fund-raising events. Mr. O’Rourke’s campaign said 99 percent of his fund-raising came from online donations, and that he had not held a fund-raiser since entering the race. Ms. Harris, on the other hand, has a strong network of small donors, but she has also aggressively courted large donors. Her campaign said more than $6 million of her $12 million total came from the campaign’s digital program, which includes fund-raising efforts like email solicitations. Follow Thomas Kaplan on Twitter: @thomaskaplan.    

Supported by By Thomas Kaplan WASHINGTON — Former Representative Beto O’Rourke of Texas raised $9.4 million over the first 18 days of his presidential bid, his campaign said on Wednesday, the latest sign of his ability to attract online donors even within a packed Democratic field. The total, which represents Mr. O’Rourke’s fund-raising haul for the first quarter of the year, is smaller than the first-quarter numbers of two rivals, Senators Bernie Sanders of Vermont and Kamala Harris of California. But Mr. O’Rourke only joined the presidential race in mid-March. Mr. O’Rourke, who proved to be an extraordinary online fund-raiser during his unsuccessful run for Senate last year, received 218,000 contributions, with an average donation of $43, his campaign said. It also said that a majority of donors to his presidential bid had not donated to his Senate campaign. Mr. O’Rourke raised roughly $80 million for his race against Senator Ted Cruz, an eye-popping total that created high expectations for his fund-raising as a presidential candidate. [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join the conversation around the 2020 presidential race.] After entering the 2020 race, Mr. O’Rourke offered early evidence of his fund-raising power: His campaign said he had received $6.1 million in the first 24 hours of his bid, more than any other Democratic presidential candidate had announced raising in his or her first day. Mr. Sanders had previously been atop the pack, at $5.9 million in 24 hours. That huge first day made up a majority of Mr. O’Rourke’s fund-raising in the first quarter. Mr. Sanders went on to reach a total of $10 million raised within a week of announcing his campaign, his team said, a threshold that Mr. O’Rourke did not meet in 18 days. “There are tremendous expectations for him given his 2018 performance, but he’s now swimming in a much more crowded pond than he was in 2018,” said Amy Walter, the national editor of the Cook Political Report. “And so I think that is going to be something to be watching for over the course of these next few months.” [Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.] Mr. O’Rourke’s campaign said 98 percent of the contributions it received were below $200. The campaign did not say how much cash it currently has. “Not only is this a sign of our grass-roots strength during the first two weeks of our campaign,” Mr. O’Rourke said of his fund-raising in a statement, “but it is a sign of what’s possible when you put your full trust in the people of this country.” Presidential candidates must disclose their first-quarter fund-raising by April 15, but some campaigns decide to make their numbers public before that deadline. Mr. Sanders’s campaign said on Tuesday that he had raised $18.2 million over six weeks, and Ms. Harris’s campaign said on Monday that she had raised $12 million since joining the race in January. Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Ind., said on Monday that he had raised more than $7 million since January. The early fund-raising totals put Mr. Sanders and Mr. O’Rourke in their own class when it comes to bringing in money from grass-roots donors. Mr. Sanders’s campaign said he had not held any fund-raising events. Mr. O’Rourke’s campaign said 99 percent of his fund-raising came from online donations, and that he had not held a fund-raiser since entering the race. Ms. Harris, on the other hand, has a strong network of small donors, but she has also aggressively courted large donors. Her campaign said more than $6 million of her $12 million total came from the campaign’s digital program, which includes fund-raising efforts like email solicitations. Follow Thomas Kaplan on Twitter: @thomaskaplan.    Supported by By Jeremy W. Peters WASHINGTON — Republican leaders are sharpening and poll-testing lines of attack that portray Democratic policies on health care, the environment and abortion as far outside the norm, in hopes of arming President Trump with hyperbolic sound bites — some of them false — asserting that Democrats would cause long waits for doctors or make killing babies after birth legal. The blunt messaging underscores one of the biggest challenges facing Democrats as they try to defeat the incumbent president: the need to define themselves and their ideas before Mr. Trump and his conservative allies do it for them. The Republican National Committee has already begun polling in 16 states to assess ways to discredit ideas like “Medicare for all,” which Senator Bernie Sanders proposed in a bill this week, and build on the party’s broader argument that Democratic candidates like Mr. Sanders are promoting an extreme socialist agenda. Social conservative leaders have met with White House officials to discuss calling attention to Democratic-sponsored legislation to loosen restrictions on abortion in the second and third trimesters, like one that passed recently in New York. [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] The recent focus on health care and abortion follows well-coordinated attacks on policies like the Green New Deal, which reduced the far-reaching climate change proposal to a punch line with jokes about cow flatulence and putting farms out of business. Some Democratic strategists said they have been taken aback recently by how successful Mr. Trump and Republicans have been at setting the terms of the debate around liberal policy ideas. And they are encouraging their party to be more nimble and deliver a more concise and accessible message. In a fight with Mr. Trump, they say, nuance is not usually the Democrats’ best weapon. “What our side has to understand is that to fight Trump it’s a battle for definition,” said Celinda Lake, a top Democratic pollster who has been working with left-of-center groups on a strategy to counter the messaging campaign from the right. “The Democrats will issue a 61-page white paper that nobody in their right mind will pass on to their friends,” she added. “He uses a one-sentence slogan, and his voters feel emboldened to share it, pass it on.” Democrats say they expect an asymmetrical battle against an opponent who makes his own rules and possesses a singular ability to saturate the national conversation. This can cut both ways, especially on issues like immigration where his fitful threats to close the southern border may cast him as more of a crisis instigator than mitigator. In 2018, Mr. Trump’s alarmist warnings about the Central American migrant caravan and his exaggerated claims about immigrants and crime were divisive with many suburban voters and contributed to Democratic victories that helped the party win the House. Still, the president’s purge of the Homeland Security Department this week signals his belief that strict immigration enforcement is a winning issue for him. And while the wall he promised in 2016 remains unbuilt, he will continue to look for new ways to hold a hard line on border security. It is not clear whether any of the Republican messaging is having an impact on voters outside of the president’s so far unmovable base. But Ms. Lake said that as she surveyed likely 2020 swing voters, she was surprised to hear people in focus groups repeat false assertions made by the president and his allies — that Democrats would end air travel in the United States and shut down dairy farms and beef production because of greenhouse gas emissions from cows. “It’s amazing the number of people who would volunteer that,” she said. The actual language in the proposal calls for cleaner transportation and agriculture “as much as is technologically feasible.” The misperception about cows and airplanes originated with a now-retracted fact sheet published by Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez’s office that contained an ironic aside about getting rid of “farting cows and airplanes.” Republicans said they also saw “Medicare for all”-type proposals as a way to give their rallying cries on socialism more substance and potency. Some plans, like the one put forward by Mr. Sanders, would largely eliminate private insurance plans, which Republicans have found is overwhelmingly unpopular with the kinds of voters they need to win back. [Who’s running for president in 2020? Keep up with who’s in and who’s out with our candidate tracker.] “The debate that’s going to play out in suburbs across the country is a choice between capitalism versus socialism,” said Ronna McDaniel, the chairwoman of the Republican National Committee. “When Democrats talk about abolishing private health insurance, for example, most of my friends are on private insurance plans through their jobs or their husbands’ jobs. They don’t want to lose that. They don’t want to wait in line to get to the pediatrician.” “Whichever Democrat wins the nomination will have to own their party’s socialist agenda,” she added. “That’s a debate that President Trump is eager to have and knows he can win.” The Republicans’ data on voters from the 2018 midterms showed that coverage of pre-existing medical conditions was the top issue of concern. But here they face a serious disadvantage: They have no health care plan of their own. But they have been testing messaging on health care with likely voters in the 16 states they believe will be the most competitive in 2020. These include ones Mr. Trump narrowly won like Michigan, Wisconsin and Florida, as well as those he won by larger margins but have tilted more Democratic lately, like Arizona and North Carolina. The R.N.C. found that when voters were told that “Medicare for all” would eliminate private insurance and create a government-run system paid for by higher taxes, independents, married women and union members disliked the idea by wide margins. Among married women alone, nearly 60 percent disapproved. Mr. Trump’s own approach at labeling Democrats has been inconsistent. He has yet to come up with the kind of indelible rhetorical device that he used repeatedly to brand his opponents in 2016. So far he has nothing like “Crooked Hillary,” “Little Marco’’ and “Low-energy Jeb,” which delighted many of his supporters two years ago. But he has occasionally made graphic and false claims that Democrats support legislation that would allow “executing babies AFTER birth,” as he said in a recent tweet. During a meeting at the White House before his State of the Union address that included some conservative activists, Mr. Trump expressed amazement at comments by the governor of Virginia, Ralph Northam, who had to clarify his defense of abortion in later stages of pregnancy after activists accused him of saying doctors should be able to kill a baby born alive during the procedure. “Can you believe this governor?’’ the president said, according to two people at the meeting, who said that he was surprisingly animated about the subject and vowed to keep mentioning it. The Centers for Disease Control says such late-term abortions are extremely rare. Only about 1.3 percent of abortions in the United States in 2015 were performed in or after the 21st week of pregnancy, the agency reported. But anti-abortion activists said the efforts in some states like New York and Virginia to remove certain barriers to second- and third-trimester abortions allowed them to present the issue to voters in a new and graphic light. Democrats have struggled to defend the new legislation; privately some say they are not being persuasive in explaining the health situations the bills address while the other side accuses them of condoning infanticide. While polls show that Americans support allowing abortion in the first three months by wide margins, that support drops sharply when people are asked in general about the second and third trimesters. (They overwhelmingly support exceptions if the mother’s life is endangered.) “We’re in a totally different environment,” said Mallory Quigley, vice president of communications for the Susan B. Anthony List, a group that opposes abortion rights and that plans to test messages on the issue with voters in the months ahead. Democrats say they cannot let Mr. Trump and other Republicans go unanswered as they try to link the party to socialism — a term that Americans view negatively over all — and to extremism in a broader sense. That has been the motivation behind Republicans’ intense focus on two young, freshman members of Congress: Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, the congresswoman from Queens who calls herself a democratic socialist; and Ilhan Omar of Minnesota, whose criticism of Israel led the president and others to condemn her as an anti-Semite. Some of Ms. Omar’s most vocal defenders have been self-described democratic socialists. Even if Americans say they like policies that are derivative of socialism, like Social Security, the term “connotes very clear imagery to people in a very dog whistle kind of way,” said Jefrey Pollock, president of the Global Strategy group, which advises Democrats on messaging. “Then they attach faces to it,” he added, “and I think it can have resonance, and it has had resonance.” The effort on the right to elevate Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, 29, as the most prominent socialist foil is something Democrats are watching, Mr. Pollock said. “She is, of course, six years away from being able to run for president. But they are still trying to make her the face of the party.” Conservatives have extended this line of attack beyond candidates like Mr. Sanders, who identifies as a democratic socialist. They are using it on other 2020 contenders like Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Ind. Laura Ingraham, the Fox News host, last week accused Mr. Buttigieg’s father, who died recently, and who had taught at the University of Notre Dame, of being “a committed Marxist, who affectionately embraced the Communist Manifesto.” She cited a Washington Examiner report as evidence. Democrats’ own research has found this approach to be effective with the Republican base, which can be more aware of liberal policies like the Green New Deal than liberals are. When Global Strategy Group and GBA Strategies surveyed Fox News viewers last month, they found that Republicans who watch Fox are more than twice as likely as all other groups to have heard about the plan than Democrats. Their verdict? Seventy-seven percent of them are very concerned about the influence of socialism in the Democratic Party.   OpinionMichelle Goldberg

Supported by By Jeremy W. Peters WASHINGTON — Republican leaders are sharpening and poll-testing lines of attack that portray Democratic policies on health care, the environment and abortion as far outside the norm, in hopes of arming President Trump with hyperbolic sound bites — some of them false — asserting that Democrats would cause long waits for doctors or make killing babies after birth legal. The blunt messaging underscores one of the biggest challenges facing Democrats as they try to defeat the incumbent president: the need to define themselves and their ideas before Mr. Trump and his conservative allies do it for them. The Republican National Committee has already begun polling in 16 states to assess ways to discredit ideas like “Medicare for all,” which Senator Bernie Sanders proposed in a bill this week, and build on the party’s broader argument that Democratic candidates like Mr. Sanders are promoting an extreme socialist agenda. Social conservative leaders have met with White House officials to discuss calling attention to Democratic-sponsored legislation to loosen restrictions on abortion in the second and third trimesters, like one that passed recently in New York. [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] The recent focus on health care and abortion follows well-coordinated attacks on policies like the Green New Deal, which reduced the far-reaching climate change proposal to a punch line with jokes about cow flatulence and putting farms out of business. Some Democratic strategists said they have been taken aback recently by how successful Mr. Trump and Republicans have been at setting the terms of the debate around liberal policy ideas. And they are encouraging their party to be more nimble and deliver a more concise and accessible message. In a fight with Mr. Trump, they say, nuance is not usually the Democrats’ best weapon. “What our side has to understand is that to fight Trump it’s a battle for definition,” said Celinda Lake, a top Democratic pollster who has been working with left-of-center groups on a strategy to counter the messaging campaign from the right. “The Democrats will issue a 61-page white paper that nobody in their right mind will pass on to their friends,” she added. “He uses a one-sentence slogan, and his voters feel emboldened to share it, pass it on.” Democrats say they expect an asymmetrical battle against an opponent who makes his own rules and possesses a singular ability to saturate the national conversation. This can cut both ways, especially on issues like immigration where his fitful threats to close the southern border may cast him as more of a crisis instigator than mitigator. In 2018, Mr. Trump’s alarmist warnings about the Central American migrant caravan and his exaggerated claims about immigrants and crime were divisive with many suburban voters and contributed to Democratic victories that helped the party win the House. Still, the president’s purge of the Homeland Security Department this week signals his belief that strict immigration enforcement is a winning issue for him. And while the wall he promised in 2016 remains unbuilt, he will continue to look for new ways to hold a hard line on border security. It is not clear whether any of the Republican messaging is having an impact on voters outside of the president’s so far unmovable base. But Ms. Lake said that as she surveyed likely 2020 swing voters, she was surprised to hear people in focus groups repeat false assertions made by the president and his allies — that Democrats would end air travel in the United States and shut down dairy farms and beef production because of greenhouse gas emissions from cows. “It’s amazing the number of people who would volunteer that,” she said. The actual language in the proposal calls for cleaner transportation and agriculture “as much as is technologically feasible.” The misperception about cows and airplanes originated with a now-retracted fact sheet published by Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez’s office that contained an ironic aside about getting rid of “farting cows and airplanes.” Republicans said they also saw “Medicare for all”-type proposals as a way to give their rallying cries on socialism more substance and potency. Some plans, like the one put forward by Mr. Sanders, would largely eliminate private insurance plans, which Republicans have found is overwhelmingly unpopular with the kinds of voters they need to win back. [Who’s running for president in 2020? Keep up with who’s in and who’s out with our candidate tracker.] “The debate that’s going to play out in suburbs across the country is a choice between capitalism versus socialism,” said Ronna McDaniel, the chairwoman of the Republican National Committee. “When Democrats talk about abolishing private health insurance, for example, most of my friends are on private insurance plans through their jobs or their husbands’ jobs. They don’t want to lose that. They don’t want to wait in line to get to the pediatrician.” “Whichever Democrat wins the nomination will have to own their party’s socialist agenda,” she added. “That’s a debate that President Trump is eager to have and knows he can win.” The Republicans’ data on voters from the 2018 midterms showed that coverage of pre-existing medical conditions was the top issue of concern. But here they face a serious disadvantage: They have no health care plan of their own. But they have been testing messaging on health care with likely voters in the 16 states they believe will be the most competitive in 2020. These include ones Mr. Trump narrowly won like Michigan, Wisconsin and Florida, as well as those he won by larger margins but have tilted more Democratic lately, like Arizona and North Carolina. The R.N.C. found that when voters were told that “Medicare for all” would eliminate private insurance and create a government-run system paid for by higher taxes, independents, married women and union members disliked the idea by wide margins. Among married women alone, nearly 60 percent disapproved. Mr. Trump’s own approach at labeling Democrats has been inconsistent. He has yet to come up with the kind of indelible rhetorical device that he used repeatedly to brand his opponents in 2016. So far he has nothing like “Crooked Hillary,” “Little Marco’’ and “Low-energy Jeb,” which delighted many of his supporters two years ago. But he has occasionally made graphic and false claims that Democrats support legislation that would allow “executing babies AFTER birth,” as he said in a recent tweet. During a meeting at the White House before his State of the Union address that included some conservative activists, Mr. Trump expressed amazement at comments by the governor of Virginia, Ralph Northam, who had to clarify his defense of abortion in later stages of pregnancy after activists accused him of saying doctors should be able to kill a baby born alive during the procedure. “Can you believe this governor?’’ the president said, according to two people at the meeting, who said that he was surprisingly animated about the subject and vowed to keep mentioning it. The Centers for Disease Control says such late-term abortions are extremely rare. Only about 1.3 percent of abortions in the United States in 2015 were performed in or after the 21st week of pregnancy, the agency reported. But anti-abortion activists said the efforts in some states like New York and Virginia to remove certain barriers to second- and third-trimester abortions allowed them to present the issue to voters in a new and graphic light. Democrats have struggled to defend the new legislation; privately some say they are not being persuasive in explaining the health situations the bills address while the other side accuses them of condoning infanticide. While polls show that Americans support allowing abortion in the first three months by wide margins, that support drops sharply when people are asked in general about the second and third trimesters. (They overwhelmingly support exceptions if the mother’s life is endangered.) “We’re in a totally different environment,” said Mallory Quigley, vice president of communications for the Susan B. Anthony List, a group that opposes abortion rights and that plans to test messages on the issue with voters in the months ahead. Democrats say they cannot let Mr. Trump and other Republicans go unanswered as they try to link the party to socialism — a term that Americans view negatively over all — and to extremism in a broader sense. That has been the motivation behind Republicans’ intense focus on two young, freshman members of Congress: Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, the congresswoman from Queens who calls herself a democratic socialist; and Ilhan Omar of Minnesota, whose criticism of Israel led the president and others to condemn her as an anti-Semite. Some of Ms. Omar’s most vocal defenders have been self-described democratic socialists. Even if Americans say they like policies that are derivative of socialism, like Social Security, the term “connotes very clear imagery to people in a very dog whistle kind of way,” said Jefrey Pollock, president of the Global Strategy group, which advises Democrats on messaging. “Then they attach faces to it,” he added, “and I think it can have resonance, and it has had resonance.” The effort on the right to elevate Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, 29, as the most prominent socialist foil is something Democrats are watching, Mr. Pollock said. “She is, of course, six years away from being able to run for president. But they are still trying to make her the face of the party.” Conservatives have extended this line of attack beyond candidates like Mr. Sanders, who identifies as a democratic socialist. They are using it on other 2020 contenders like Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Ind. Laura Ingraham, the Fox News host, last week accused Mr. Buttigieg’s father, who died recently, and who had taught at the University of Notre Dame, of being “a committed Marxist, who affectionately embraced the Communist Manifesto.” She cited a Washington Examiner report as evidence. Democrats’ own research has found this approach to be effective with the Republican base, which can be more aware of liberal policies like the Green New Deal than liberals are. When Global Strategy Group and GBA Strategies surveyed Fox News viewers last month, they found that Republicans who watch Fox are more than twice as likely as all other groups to have heard about the plan than Democrats. Their verdict? Seventy-seven percent of them are very concerned about the influence of socialism in the Democratic Party.   OpinionMichelle GoldbergSupported by Best of Late Night By Giovanni Russonello Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox. Former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. has not officially announced his campaign for president, but it has already run into its first big obstacle: Biden was accused last week of inappropriately touching Lucy Flores, a former Nevada assemblywoman, during a rally in 2014. The charge has created days’ worth of headlines, but Jimmy Fallon noted that after President Trump won in 2016 — despite more than 20 accusations of sexual misconduct — this hardly seemed like a disqualifier. “It’s not a good look for Biden. If any other women come forward and say he acted inappropriate, he could get elected president.” — JIMMY FALLON On “The Late Show,” Stephen Colbert acted out parts of Flores’s account. She said Biden embraced her from behind and nuzzled her hair just before they went onstage at a campaign event. “Mm, is that Garnier Fructis?” Colbert mumbled, imitating Biden. “Are you relaxed yet? No? You actually seem more tense than when I started. Here, let me kiss the top of your head.” Trevor Noah said Biden’s actions rated pretty high on the creepy-conduct scale. “Honestly, smelling hair is one of the creepiest things you can do. It’s on the list of creepy things — it’s right after ‘collecting doll parts’ and ‘sneezing with your eyes open.’” — TREVOR NOAH Attorney General William P. Barr released a statement on Friday clarifying that the four-page letter he put out discussing the Mueller report should not be seen as a full summary. He said the letter, which seemed to broadly outline the findings of the report, “was not, and did not purport to be, an exhaustive recounting of the special counsel’s investigation or report.” Seth Meyers found that confusing. “Wait, so it wasn’t supposed to be a summary? That’s kind of an important detail to leave out. That’s like reading the line, ‘The prince and the princess lived happily ever after’ in a fairy tale, and then you turn the page and there’s a note saying, ‘That was not — and should not — be mischaracterized as the ending. They got divorced the next day.” — SETH MEYERS Meyers commemorated April Fools’ Day not with a prank but with some dark humor. “Today was April Fools’ Day, so if you saw anything in the news that was positive, that’s why.” — SETH MEYERS For his part, Stephen Colbert did his best to prove Meyers right with a wry joke about Trump’s border policies. “Trump is still concerned with our southern border. In response to a surge of migrants coming into this country, Trump unveiled a new approach that treats asylum seekers fairly and humanely. April Fools’! I gotcha.” — STEPHEN COLBERT “I heard that pretty soon Walgreens was going to start selling CBD products in their stores. Meanwhile, you can get actual weed at any Walmart if you just raise your eyebrows at the right employee.” — JIMMY FALLON “Indiana mayor and Democratic presidential hopeful Pete Buttigieg has announced his campaign has raised $7 million in the last three months. But unfortunately he’s just going to use the money to buy more vowels.” — SETH MEYERS, showing the mayor’s name spelled “Buittigieigie” For Jimmy Kimmel, pranking his Aunt Chippy will never get old. “The Late Show” took a peek into Kellyanne Conway’s brain as she tried to explain the president’s health care plans. Tiffany Haddish, who recently announced that she would be hosting “Tiffany Haddish Presents: They Ready,” a Netflix series devoted to younger comics, will sit down with Kimmel on Tuesday. Here’s an eight-minute look at how the budding 17-year-old pop star Billie Eilish made her hit song, “Bury a Friend.” Plus, Ideas for What to Watch Tonight: The 50 Best Movies on Netflix Right Now The 25 Best Films of the 21st Century The Best Movies on Amazon Prime Video Right Now

Supported by Best of Late Night By Giovanni Russonello Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox. Former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. has not officially announced his campaign for president, but it has already run into its first big obstacle: Biden was accused last week of inappropriately touching Lucy Flores, a former Nevada assemblywoman, during a rally in 2014. The charge has created days’ worth of headlines, but Jimmy Fallon noted that after President Trump won in 2016 — despite more than 20 accusations of sexual misconduct — this hardly seemed like a disqualifier. “It’s not a good look for Biden. If any other women come forward and say he acted inappropriate, he could get elected president.” — JIMMY FALLON On “The Late Show,” Stephen Colbert acted out parts of Flores’s account. She said Biden embraced her from behind and nuzzled her hair just before they went onstage at a campaign event. “Mm, is that Garnier Fructis?” Colbert mumbled, imitating Biden. “Are you relaxed yet? No? You actually seem more tense than when I started. Here, let me kiss the top of your head.” Trevor Noah said Biden’s actions rated pretty high on the creepy-conduct scale. “Honestly, smelling hair is one of the creepiest things you can do. It’s on the list of creepy things — it’s right after ‘collecting doll parts’ and ‘sneezing with your eyes open.’” — TREVOR NOAH Attorney General William P. Barr released a statement on Friday clarifying that the four-page letter he put out discussing the Mueller report should not be seen as a full summary. He said the letter, which seemed to broadly outline the findings of the report, “was not, and did not purport to be, an exhaustive recounting of the special counsel’s investigation or report.” Seth Meyers found that confusing. “Wait, so it wasn’t supposed to be a summary? That’s kind of an important detail to leave out. That’s like reading the line, ‘The prince and the princess lived happily ever after’ in a fairy tale, and then you turn the page and there’s a note saying, ‘That was not — and should not — be mischaracterized as the ending. They got divorced the next day.” — SETH MEYERS Meyers commemorated April Fools’ Day not with a prank but with some dark humor. “Today was April Fools’ Day, so if you saw anything in the news that was positive, that’s why.” — SETH MEYERS For his part, Stephen Colbert did his best to prove Meyers right with a wry joke about Trump’s border policies. “Trump is still concerned with our southern border. In response to a surge of migrants coming into this country, Trump unveiled a new approach that treats asylum seekers fairly and humanely. April Fools’! I gotcha.” — STEPHEN COLBERT “I heard that pretty soon Walgreens was going to start selling CBD products in their stores. Meanwhile, you can get actual weed at any Walmart if you just raise your eyebrows at the right employee.” — JIMMY FALLON “Indiana mayor and Democratic presidential hopeful Pete Buttigieg has announced his campaign has raised $7 million in the last three months. But unfortunately he’s just going to use the money to buy more vowels.” — SETH MEYERS, showing the mayor’s name spelled “Buittigieigie” For Jimmy Kimmel, pranking his Aunt Chippy will never get old. “The Late Show” took a peek into Kellyanne Conway’s brain as she tried to explain the president’s health care plans. Tiffany Haddish, who recently announced that she would be hosting “Tiffany Haddish Presents: They Ready,” a Netflix series devoted to younger comics, will sit down with Kimmel on Tuesday. Here’s an eight-minute look at how the budding 17-year-old pop star Billie Eilish made her hit song, “Bury a Friend.” Plus, Ideas for What to Watch Tonight: The 50 Best Movies on Netflix Right Now The 25 Best Films of the 21st Century The Best Movies on Amazon Prime Video Right Now

      Compiled by NATALIE PROULX

APRIL 16, 2019
 
 Above is an image related to one of the news stories we followed this past week. Do you know what it shows? At the bottom of this quiz, you'll find the answer. Have you been paying attention to the news recently? See how many of these 10 questions you can get right. , one of the most iconic symbols of beauty and history in , was engulfed in flames on April 15, leading to the collapse of part of its spire. Saint Mark’s Basilica; Venice The Cathedral of Notre-Dame; Paris The Sagrada Familia; Barcelona Westminster Abbey; London Astronomers announced on April 10 that they had at last captured an image of one of the most secretive entities in the cosmos: . a black hole a sun from another universe dark matter the most distant object in the Milky Way galaxy  military ousted President Omar Hassan al-Bashir on April 11, ending a 30-year authoritarian rule in the face of mass street protests. Algeria’s South Africa’s Sudan’s Venezuela’s Tiger Woods completed a comeback from personal and professional adversity on April 14, capturing his fifth  title and his 15th major tournament with a victory that snapped a decade-long championship drought and instantly returned him to the top of the sports world. British Open Masters P.G.A. Championship United States Open The WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange was arrested on April 11 in London to face a charge in the United States of  in 2010, bringing to an abrupt end a seven-year saga in which he had holed up in Ecuador’s embassy in Britain to avoid capture. conspiring to hack into a Pentagon computer network hacking the Democratic National Committee and Clinton campaign leaking highly classified information about the National Security Agency’s mass surveillance program using WikiLeaks technologies and products to spy on Americans President Trump on April 12 targeted Representative Ilhan Omar for remarks she made during a speech on civil rights and Muslims in America with a graphic video featuring , that he tweeted to his millions of followers. a crowd at a rally cheering his ban on travel from several predominantly Muslim countries the burning World Trade Center towers and other images from Sept. 11, 2001 the recent mosque attacks in New Zealand and other attacks on Muslims violent acts committed by the Taliban in Syria and Iraq Choking back tears as they danced, family members, fans and hip-hop luminaries gathered on April 11 in Los Angeles to honor , the rapper who was gunned down in South Los Angeles last month.  Aminé Dom Kennedy Jay Rock Nipsey Hussle President Trump said on April 12 that his administration was “strongly” considering , suggesting that the idea should make liberals “very happy” because of their immigration policies. ending the campaign for building a wall on the border between the United States and Mexico immediately granting United States citizenship to all migrants detained at the border making a deal with top-ranking Democrats that will increase immigration over the next 10 years releasing migrants detained at the border into mostly Democratic “sanctuary cities” , Israel’s conservative prime minister for the past decade, appeared poised to win a fourth consecutive term in office, and a fifth over all, according to preliminary results early on April 10. Arye Dery Benjamin Netanyahu Benny Gantz Yaakov Litzman Three of the articles about politics, below, were recently published in The New York Times. One is from the satirical site The Onion. Which is the fake news story? “Emboldened by His Attorney General, Trump Confronts Mueller Report Head-On” “New Study Finds 85% Of Americans Don't Know All The Dance Moves To National Anthem” “Pete Buttigieg Announces Official Start to 2020 Campaign” “The Supreme Court Will Soon Consider Whether the Census Will Include a Citizenship Question”



      Compiled by NATALIE PROULX

APRIL 16, 2019
 
 Above is an image related to one of the news stories we followed this past week. Do you know what it shows? At the bottom of this quiz, you'll find the answer. Have you been paying attention to the news recently? See how many of these 10 questions you can get right. , one of the most iconic symbols of beauty and history in , was engulfed in flames on April 15, leading to the collapse of part of its spire. Saint Mark’s Basilica; Venice The Cathedral of Notre-Dame; Paris The Sagrada Familia; Barcelona Westminster Abbey; London Astronomers announced on April 10 that they had at last captured an image of one of the most secretive entities in the cosmos: . a black hole a sun from another universe dark matter the most distant object in the Milky Way galaxy  military ousted President Omar Hassan al-Bashir on April 11, ending a 30-year authoritarian rule in the face of mass street protests. Algeria’s South Africa’s Sudan’s Venezuela’s Tiger Woods completed a comeback from personal and professional adversity on April 14, capturing his fifth  title and his 15th major tournament with a victory that snapped a decade-long championship drought and instantly returned him to the top of the sports world. British Open Masters P.G.A. Championship United States Open The WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange was arrested on April 11 in London to face a charge in the United States of  in 2010, bringing to an abrupt end a seven-year saga in which he had holed up in Ecuador’s embassy in Britain to avoid capture. conspiring to hack into a Pentagon computer network hacking the Democratic National Committee and Clinton campaign leaking highly classified information about the National Security Agency’s mass surveillance program using WikiLeaks technologies and products to spy on Americans President Trump on April 12 targeted Representative Ilhan Omar for remarks she made during a speech on civil rights and Muslims in America with a graphic video featuring , that he tweeted to his millions of followers. a crowd at a rally cheering his ban on travel from several predominantly Muslim countries the burning World Trade Center towers and other images from Sept. 11, 2001 the recent mosque attacks in New Zealand and other attacks on Muslims violent acts committed by the Taliban in Syria and Iraq Choking back tears as they danced, family members, fans and hip-hop luminaries gathered on April 11 in Los Angeles to honor , the rapper who was gunned down in South Los Angeles last month.  Aminé Dom Kennedy Jay Rock Nipsey Hussle President Trump said on April 12 that his administration was “strongly” considering , suggesting that the idea should make liberals “very happy” because of their immigration policies. ending the campaign for building a wall on the border between the United States and Mexico immediately granting United States citizenship to all migrants detained at the border making a deal with top-ranking Democrats that will increase immigration over the next 10 years releasing migrants detained at the border into mostly Democratic “sanctuary cities” , Israel’s conservative prime minister for the past decade, appeared poised to win a fourth consecutive term in office, and a fifth over all, according to preliminary results early on April 10. Arye Dery Benjamin Netanyahu Benny Gantz Yaakov Litzman Three of the articles about politics, below, were recently published in The New York Times. One is from the satirical site The Onion. Which is the fake news story? “Emboldened by His Attorney General, Trump Confronts Mueller Report Head-On” “New Study Finds 85% Of Americans Don't Know All The Dance Moves To National Anthem” “Pete Buttigieg Announces Official Start to 2020 Campaign” “The Supreme Court Will Soon Consider Whether the Census Will Include a Citizenship Question”Supported by By Isabella Grullón Paz From a Department of Homeland Security shake-up to the arrest of Julian Assange, it’s been a busy week in American politics. Here are some of the biggest stories you might have missed (and some links if you’d like to read further). ___________________ Kirstjen Nielsen resigned as homeland security secretary on Sunday after meeting with President Trump, ending a tumultuous tenure that had made her a target of the president’s criticism. She is the latest in a long line of senior officials who have left the administration unceremoniously. To placate Congress, Mr. Trump named a new “acting” secretary for homeland security. Such temporary appointments are seemingly becoming a permanent condition of the Trump administration. A day after forcing Ms. Nielsen’s resignation, Mr. Trump accelerated a purge of the nation’s immigration and security leadership. At least five senior officials have been pushed out or are expected to leave in the coming weeks. The moves suggest that Mr. Trump is preparing to unleash an even fiercer assault on immigration, which could include making it much harder for migrants to receive asylum — or even closing the border altogether. Additional Reading • U.S. Wants to Allow More Foreign Workers While Also Restricting Immigration • Trump Says He Is Considering Releasing Migrants in ‘Sanctuary Cities’ • Trump Says the U.S. Is ‘Full.’ Much of the Nation Has the Opposite Problem. • The U.S. Immigration System May Have Reached a Breaking Point After seven years of hiding in the Ecuadorean Embassy in London, Julian Assange, the founder of WikiLeaks, was arrested on Thursday after Ecuador revoked his asylum status. Mr. Assange faces one count of conspiracy to hack a Pentagon computer as part of the 2010 release of reams of secret American documents. Mr. Assange’s indictment makes no mention of the central role WikiLeaks played in the Russian campaign to undermine Hillary Clinton’s presidential chances and help elect Mr. Trump. It remains unclear whether his arrest will answer the remaining questions surrounding the Russians’ relationship to the Trump campaign. The creation of WikiLeaks empowered a new generation of whistle-blowers and insiders, enraging the powerful in many countries. But Mr. Assange himself became a highly problematic champion for the principles of press freedom and the public’s right to information. Additional Reading • Press Freedoms and the Case Against Julian Assange, Explained • Julian Assange’s Seven Strange Years in Self-Imposed Isolation • Extraditing Assange Promises to Be a Long, Difficult Process Like the proliferation of guns, capital punishment distinguishes the United States from other Western democracies, virtually all of which have banned it. Now, after decades of declining public support for the death penalty, a new generation of Democratic candidates is speaking out against it. As a married gay man and a Scripture-quoting Christian, the Democratic presidential candidate Pete Buttigieg has challenged the religious right on its own turf, confronting evangelicals over gay rights and questioning the moral authority of those who have stayed silent about Mr. Trump’s conduct. Just about every Democratic candidate seems to have a “grass-roots movement” now, not a campaign. What’s the difference? That’s not really clear. A few more candidates released their fund-raising numbers for the first quarter: Cory Booker raised $5 million, Amy Klobuchar raised $5.2 million and Elizabeth Warren raised $6 million. And Representative Eric Swalwell, a fourth-term congressman from California, joined the crowded Democratic field. Additional Reading • Booker Campaigns on Baby Bonds Program to Combat Inequality • Would ‘Medicare for All’ Save Billions or Cost Billions? • The Democratic Electorate on Twitter Is Not the Actual Democratic Electorate • On the eve of his successful bid for another term, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel vowed to annex parts of the West Bank, openly disregarding four decades of American policy. Nothing has emboldened Mr. Netanyahu more than Mr. Trump's support. • Mr. Trump on Monday labeled a powerful arm of the Iranian military as a foreign terrorist organization. It’s the first time the United States has applied that designation to part of another nation’s government. • Federal Reserve officials were worried about slowing economic growth abroad when they decided to pause interest rate increases and cut economic growth forecasts for 2019, according to minutes from the March meeting released on Wednesday. • Gregory B. Craig, a former aide to President Barack Obama, was charged with lying to the Justice Department and concealing information about work he did for the Russia-aligned government of Ukraine in 2012. • Congress is leaving for a two-week spring recess without fulfilling the most pressing item on its agenda: aid to victims of floods, fires and hurricanes. The biggest point of contention? Helping Puerto Rico. • Mr. Trump said Thursday that he would be open to a third summit meeting with North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un. Mr. Kim said he would consider it, under the right circumstances. _____________________ Today’s On Politics briefing was compiled by Isabella Grullón Paz in New York. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.

Supported by By Isabella Grullón Paz From a Department of Homeland Security shake-up to the arrest of Julian Assange, it’s been a busy week in American politics. Here are some of the biggest stories you might have missed (and some links if you’d like to read further). ___________________ Kirstjen Nielsen resigned as homeland security secretary on Sunday after meeting with President Trump, ending a tumultuous tenure that had made her a target of the president’s criticism. She is the latest in a long line of senior officials who have left the administration unceremoniously. To placate Congress, Mr. Trump named a new “acting” secretary for homeland security. Such temporary appointments are seemingly becoming a permanent condition of the Trump administration. A day after forcing Ms. Nielsen’s resignation, Mr. Trump accelerated a purge of the nation’s immigration and security leadership. At least five senior officials have been pushed out or are expected to leave in the coming weeks. The moves suggest that Mr. Trump is preparing to unleash an even fiercer assault on immigration, which could include making it much harder for migrants to receive asylum — or even closing the border altogether. Additional Reading • U.S. Wants to Allow More Foreign Workers While Also Restricting Immigration • Trump Says He Is Considering Releasing Migrants in ‘Sanctuary Cities’ • Trump Says the U.S. Is ‘Full.’ Much of the Nation Has the Opposite Problem. • The U.S. Immigration System May Have Reached a Breaking Point After seven years of hiding in the Ecuadorean Embassy in London, Julian Assange, the founder of WikiLeaks, was arrested on Thursday after Ecuador revoked his asylum status. Mr. Assange faces one count of conspiracy to hack a Pentagon computer as part of the 2010 release of reams of secret American documents. Mr. Assange’s indictment makes no mention of the central role WikiLeaks played in the Russian campaign to undermine Hillary Clinton’s presidential chances and help elect Mr. Trump. It remains unclear whether his arrest will answer the remaining questions surrounding the Russians’ relationship to the Trump campaign. The creation of WikiLeaks empowered a new generation of whistle-blowers and insiders, enraging the powerful in many countries. But Mr. Assange himself became a highly problematic champion for the principles of press freedom and the public’s right to information. Additional Reading • Press Freedoms and the Case Against Julian Assange, Explained • Julian Assange’s Seven Strange Years in Self-Imposed Isolation • Extraditing Assange Promises to Be a Long, Difficult Process Like the proliferation of guns, capital punishment distinguishes the United States from other Western democracies, virtually all of which have banned it. Now, after decades of declining public support for the death penalty, a new generation of Democratic candidates is speaking out against it. As a married gay man and a Scripture-quoting Christian, the Democratic presidential candidate Pete Buttigieg has challenged the religious right on its own turf, confronting evangelicals over gay rights and questioning the moral authority of those who have stayed silent about Mr. Trump’s conduct. Just about every Democratic candidate seems to have a “grass-roots movement” now, not a campaign. What’s the difference? That’s not really clear. A few more candidates released their fund-raising numbers for the first quarter: Cory Booker raised $5 million, Amy Klobuchar raised $5.2 million and Elizabeth Warren raised $6 million. And Representative Eric Swalwell, a fourth-term congressman from California, joined the crowded Democratic field. Additional Reading • Booker Campaigns on Baby Bonds Program to Combat Inequality • Would ‘Medicare for All’ Save Billions or Cost Billions? • The Democratic Electorate on Twitter Is Not the Actual Democratic Electorate • On the eve of his successful bid for another term, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel vowed to annex parts of the West Bank, openly disregarding four decades of American policy. Nothing has emboldened Mr. Netanyahu more than Mr. Trump's support. • Mr. Trump on Monday labeled a powerful arm of the Iranian military as a foreign terrorist organization. It’s the first time the United States has applied that designation to part of another nation’s government. • Federal Reserve officials were worried about slowing economic growth abroad when they decided to pause interest rate increases and cut economic growth forecasts for 2019, according to minutes from the March meeting released on Wednesday. • Gregory B. Craig, a former aide to President Barack Obama, was charged with lying to the Justice Department and concealing information about work he did for the Russia-aligned government of Ukraine in 2012. • Congress is leaving for a two-week spring recess without fulfilling the most pressing item on its agenda: aid to victims of floods, fires and hurricanes. The biggest point of contention? Helping Puerto Rico. • Mr. Trump said Thursday that he would be open to a third summit meeting with North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un. Mr. Kim said he would consider it, under the right circumstances. _____________________ Today’s On Politics briefing was compiled by Isabella Grullón Paz in New York. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.Supported by By Jonathan Martin WASHINGTON — Former Gov. Terry McAuliffe of Virginia said Wednesday he would not run for president, concluding that his moderate profile would have limited appeal when Democratic voters appear to be choosing between younger, progressive contenders and veteran politicians like Senator Bernie Sanders and former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., who is expected to enter the race next week. “I would have loved to have run for president,” Mr. McAuliffe said in a telephone interview, but he conceded it would have been “a hard primary.” A storied political fund-raiser and close friend of Bill and Hillary Clinton, Mr. McAuliffe had visited the early primary state of South Carolina and made calls to his donor network in hopes of lining up support. He said that he would have been able to raise $10 million in his first three months as a candidate. And with a record of job expansion during his tenure in Virginia, which he trumpeted at every opportunity, Mr. McAuliffe believed he could be a formidable candidate in a 2020 primary with no dominant front-runner. But while the exuberant former Democratic National Committee chairman often sounded eager to run, and even tested a centrist message targeting what he called “dishonest populism,” it became clear to him that there was limited space for a 62-year-old political veteran. [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join the conversation around the 2020 presidential race.] Part of Mr. McAuliffe’s challenge was that party activists appeared to be gravitating toward candidates who were more liberal than him, such as Mr. Sanders and Senator Kamala Harris, or eyeing next-generation prospects such as former Representative Beto O’Rourke and Mayor Pete Buttigieg of South Bend, Ind. Mr. McAuliffe was dissuaded by the early shape of the race and complained to allies in private that many Democratic voters seemed to care little about experience and accomplishments, according to advisers. But it is the long-anticipated entry of Mr. Biden, who would be the most experienced candidate in the race, that complicated Mr. McAuliffe’s ambitions more than anybody. He would have run on a similar, consensus-oriented platform as Mr. Biden and would have been pursuing many of the same fund-raisers and donors. “Clearly Biden was in the same area and is a former vice president of the United States,” Mr. McAuliffe said. Mr. McAuliffe’s allies expect him to get behind Mr. Biden. The two are longtime friends and have talked repeatedly in recent months about their intentions. Mr. Biden has made clear to Mr. McAuliffe that he wanted the former governor to play a prominent role in his campaign, if Mr. McAuliffe did not run himself, according to multiple Democrats familiar with their conversations. ”I love the guy,” Mr. McAuliffe said of Mr. Biden. “I’m a big fan.” But the former governor declined to say when he would make any endorsement official, in part because Mr. McAuliffe wants to encourage as many Democratic presidential hopefuls as possible to come to Virginia this year to campaign for Statehouse candidates. [Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.] Appearing on CNN Wednesday evening, wearing an orange University of Virginia polo shirt and bragging about the school’s recent national basketball championship, Mr. McAuliffe framed his decision not to run for president as a choice to put his state first. Democrats there are hoping to reclaim both chambers of the State Legislature this November but have struggled to raise money because their top three elected leaders are all ensnared in scandal. ”They’re desperate down there,” Mr. McAuliffe said, referring to his successor, Gov. Ralph S. Northam, and the other beleaguered Democrats in the state capital. “Ralph only raised $2,500 in the last quarter.” Mr. McAuliffe’s deep connections to his party’s leading donors will certainly help Virginia Democrats. But they may have hurt him in a race in which nearly every candidate is shunning super PACs and many are railing against the role of money in politics. After making his name as a hard-charging political operative — in his youth he wrestled an alligator in exchange for a donation — Mr. McAuliffe raised hundreds of millions for Democratic campaigns and was chairman of Mrs. Clinton’s 2008 presidential bid. He lost a primary for governor the next year before winning the governorship in 2013. He was a socially liberal but business-friendly chief executive and in early 2017 acknowledged that he would consider a presidential bid. He campaigned for Democrats across the country last year, stopping in early nominating states and general election battlegrounds alike. But after keeping the option open longer than he planned, in part because of Mr. Biden’s hesitation, Mr. McAuliffe recognized this was not his moment. However, that does not necessarily mean he will not seek office again: His decision to plunge back into Virginia suggests he may attempt to become only the second governor in state history to serve a second term (sitting governors are barred by law from seeking consecutive terms). Asked if he was open to running when that seat is up in 2021, Mr. McAuliffe would only say, “I am focused this year on the House and Senate.”   

Supported by By Jonathan Martin WASHINGTON — Former Gov. Terry McAuliffe of Virginia said Wednesday he would not run for president, concluding that his moderate profile would have limited appeal when Democratic voters appear to be choosing between younger, progressive contenders and veteran politicians like Senator Bernie Sanders and former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., who is expected to enter the race next week. “I would have loved to have run for president,” Mr. McAuliffe said in a telephone interview, but he conceded it would have been “a hard primary.” A storied political fund-raiser and close friend of Bill and Hillary Clinton, Mr. McAuliffe had visited the early primary state of South Carolina and made calls to his donor network in hopes of lining up support. He said that he would have been able to raise $10 million in his first three months as a candidate. And with a record of job expansion during his tenure in Virginia, which he trumpeted at every opportunity, Mr. McAuliffe believed he could be a formidable candidate in a 2020 primary with no dominant front-runner. But while the exuberant former Democratic National Committee chairman often sounded eager to run, and even tested a centrist message targeting what he called “dishonest populism,” it became clear to him that there was limited space for a 62-year-old political veteran. [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join the conversation around the 2020 presidential race.] Part of Mr. McAuliffe’s challenge was that party activists appeared to be gravitating toward candidates who were more liberal than him, such as Mr. Sanders and Senator Kamala Harris, or eyeing next-generation prospects such as former Representative Beto O’Rourke and Mayor Pete Buttigieg of South Bend, Ind. Mr. McAuliffe was dissuaded by the early shape of the race and complained to allies in private that many Democratic voters seemed to care little about experience and accomplishments, according to advisers. But it is the long-anticipated entry of Mr. Biden, who would be the most experienced candidate in the race, that complicated Mr. McAuliffe’s ambitions more than anybody. He would have run on a similar, consensus-oriented platform as Mr. Biden and would have been pursuing many of the same fund-raisers and donors. “Clearly Biden was in the same area and is a former vice president of the United States,” Mr. McAuliffe said. Mr. McAuliffe’s allies expect him to get behind Mr. Biden. The two are longtime friends and have talked repeatedly in recent months about their intentions. Mr. Biden has made clear to Mr. McAuliffe that he wanted the former governor to play a prominent role in his campaign, if Mr. McAuliffe did not run himself, according to multiple Democrats familiar with their conversations. ”I love the guy,” Mr. McAuliffe said of Mr. Biden. “I’m a big fan.” But the former governor declined to say when he would make any endorsement official, in part because Mr. McAuliffe wants to encourage as many Democratic presidential hopefuls as possible to come to Virginia this year to campaign for Statehouse candidates. [Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.] Appearing on CNN Wednesday evening, wearing an orange University of Virginia polo shirt and bragging about the school’s recent national basketball championship, Mr. McAuliffe framed his decision not to run for president as a choice to put his state first. Democrats there are hoping to reclaim both chambers of the State Legislature this November but have struggled to raise money because their top three elected leaders are all ensnared in scandal. ”They’re desperate down there,” Mr. McAuliffe said, referring to his successor, Gov. Ralph S. Northam, and the other beleaguered Democrats in the state capital. “Ralph only raised $2,500 in the last quarter.” Mr. McAuliffe’s deep connections to his party’s leading donors will certainly help Virginia Democrats. But they may have hurt him in a race in which nearly every candidate is shunning super PACs and many are railing against the role of money in politics. After making his name as a hard-charging political operative — in his youth he wrestled an alligator in exchange for a donation — Mr. McAuliffe raised hundreds of millions for Democratic campaigns and was chairman of Mrs. Clinton’s 2008 presidential bid. He lost a primary for governor the next year before winning the governorship in 2013. He was a socially liberal but business-friendly chief executive and in early 2017 acknowledged that he would consider a presidential bid. He campaigned for Democrats across the country last year, stopping in early nominating states and general election battlegrounds alike. But after keeping the option open longer than he planned, in part because of Mr. Biden’s hesitation, Mr. McAuliffe recognized this was not his moment. However, that does not necessarily mean he will not seek office again: His decision to plunge back into Virginia suggests he may attempt to become only the second governor in state history to serve a second term (sitting governors are barred by law from seeking consecutive terms). Asked if he was open to running when that seat is up in 2021, Mr. McAuliffe would only say, “I am focused this year on the House and Senate.”   Supported by By Maggie Astor Representative Tim Ryan of Ohio, a Democrat from one of the nation’s most coveted swing states, announced his candidacy for president on Thursday, bringing the Democratic primary field to 17. Mr. Ryan, who represents a district in northeastern Ohio that includes Youngstown and part of Akron, is perhaps best known at the national level for his criticism of House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, and his accompanying argument that Democrats have stopped connecting with working-class voters, especially in the Midwest. He challenged Ms. Pelosi for the minority leader position in 2016 and, two years later, was again a leader of a push to elect someone else. He began his presidential campaign with a TV appearance Thursday morning on “The View,” in which he emphasized jobs and the economy. “I’m a progressive who knows how to talk to working-class people,” he said. “At the end of the day, the progressive agenda is what’s best for working families.” [Here’s where Mr. Ryan stands on the issues.] In an interview with The New York Times a few hours later, Mr. Ryan argued that he was better positioned than any other candidate to address “economic disorientation” in places like Youngstown and Akron. He spoke in particular about the potential of electric vehicles and other renewable energy industries to create jobs for people displaced by the decline in manufacturing. “I want a businessperson in Michigan to say, ‘I think Tim Ryan really understands what we need to do around electric vehicles,’” he said, “and I want a worker in Michigan going: ‘Yeah, we just lost our job. Let’s make electric. That seems like it’s the future.’” It was the sort of message — progressive populism to challenge right-wing, Trumpist populism — that some voters had expected to hear from one of Mr. Ryan’s fellow Ohioans, Senator Sherrod Brown, who flirted with the idea of a presidential campaign before deciding last month not to run. [Who’s in? Who’s out? Keep up with the 2020 field with our candidate tracker.] Over his 16 years in the House, Mr. Ryan has also shifted to the left on some of the country’s most contentious issues. For much of his career, he opposed abortion, citing his Catholic faith. But in 2015, he wrote an op-ed for The Akron Beacon Journal in which he said that after speaking with women about their reasons for choosing to have abortions, he had “come to believe that we must trust women and families — not politicians — to make the best decision for their lives.” He made a similar reversal on gun policy after the Las Vegas mass shooting in 2017, breaking publicly from the National Rifle Association — which had previously given him A ratings — and announcing that he would take the roughly $20,000 he had received from its political action committee and donate it to organizations seeking stricter gun laws. That was the culmination of a shift in thinking that began after the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting five years earlier, he said Thursday. He is also a co-sponsor of Representative Pramila Jayapal’s Medicare for All bill. The Republican National Committee highlighted that support in its response to Mr. Ryan’s announcement, calling him one more addition “to the long list of liberal candidates demanding government-run health care.” Mr. Ryan’s path to the nomination is steep, and not just because the field is so crowded. The last — and only — sitting House member to be elected president was James Garfield in 1880. But Mr. Ryan believes there is an opening in the race for a Midwesterner who can focus on winning back the voters who flipped to President Trump in 2016, turning states like Michigan and Wisconsin red for the first time in about three decades. Of the 17 Democratic candidates, only three — Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota; Mayor Pete Buttigieg of South Bend, Ind.; and Mr. Ryan — are from the Midwest. “Who can win western PA?” he said. “Who can win Ohio? Who can win Michigan, Wisconsin? I think I’ll be as well if not better positioned than anybody else to be able to win those states.” “I think somebody from the Midwest could be a healing candidate in the sense that we’re so divided,” he added. “You can have a great 10-point plan, but if we don’t figure out how to come together, then we’re not going anywhere.” On “The View,” Mr. Ryan said his daughter had called him one day, crying, to tell him her friend was going to have to move because a local General Motors plant had closed. “My daughter called me and said, ‘You’ve got to do something,’” Mr. Ryan recalled. “And I said: ‘I’m going to do something. I’m going to run for president of the United States.’” Matt Stevens contributed reporting. 

Supported by By Maggie Astor Representative Tim Ryan of Ohio, a Democrat from one of the nation’s most coveted swing states, announced his candidacy for president on Thursday, bringing the Democratic primary field to 17. Mr. Ryan, who represents a district in northeastern Ohio that includes Youngstown and part of Akron, is perhaps best known at the national level for his criticism of House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, and his accompanying argument that Democrats have stopped connecting with working-class voters, especially in the Midwest. He challenged Ms. Pelosi for the minority leader position in 2016 and, two years later, was again a leader of a push to elect someone else. He began his presidential campaign with a TV appearance Thursday morning on “The View,” in which he emphasized jobs and the economy. “I’m a progressive who knows how to talk to working-class people,” he said. “At the end of the day, the progressive agenda is what’s best for working families.” [Here’s where Mr. Ryan stands on the issues.] In an interview with The New York Times a few hours later, Mr. Ryan argued that he was better positioned than any other candidate to address “economic disorientation” in places like Youngstown and Akron. He spoke in particular about the potential of electric vehicles and other renewable energy industries to create jobs for people displaced by the decline in manufacturing. “I want a businessperson in Michigan to say, ‘I think Tim Ryan really understands what we need to do around electric vehicles,’” he said, “and I want a worker in Michigan going: ‘Yeah, we just lost our job. Let’s make electric. That seems like it’s the future.’” It was the sort of message — progressive populism to challenge right-wing, Trumpist populism — that some voters had expected to hear from one of Mr. Ryan’s fellow Ohioans, Senator Sherrod Brown, who flirted with the idea of a presidential campaign before deciding last month not to run. [Who’s in? Who’s out? Keep up with the 2020 field with our candidate tracker.] Over his 16 years in the House, Mr. Ryan has also shifted to the left on some of the country’s most contentious issues. For much of his career, he opposed abortion, citing his Catholic faith. But in 2015, he wrote an op-ed for The Akron Beacon Journal in which he said that after speaking with women about their reasons for choosing to have abortions, he had “come to believe that we must trust women and families — not politicians — to make the best decision for their lives.” He made a similar reversal on gun policy after the Las Vegas mass shooting in 2017, breaking publicly from the National Rifle Association — which had previously given him A ratings — and announcing that he would take the roughly $20,000 he had received from its political action committee and donate it to organizations seeking stricter gun laws. That was the culmination of a shift in thinking that began after the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting five years earlier, he said Thursday. He is also a co-sponsor of Representative Pramila Jayapal’s Medicare for All bill. The Republican National Committee highlighted that support in its response to Mr. Ryan’s announcement, calling him one more addition “to the long list of liberal candidates demanding government-run health care.” Mr. Ryan’s path to the nomination is steep, and not just because the field is so crowded. The last — and only — sitting House member to be elected president was James Garfield in 1880. But Mr. Ryan believes there is an opening in the race for a Midwesterner who can focus on winning back the voters who flipped to President Trump in 2016, turning states like Michigan and Wisconsin red for the first time in about three decades. Of the 17 Democratic candidates, only three — Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota; Mayor Pete Buttigieg of South Bend, Ind.; and Mr. Ryan — are from the Midwest. “Who can win western PA?” he said. “Who can win Ohio? Who can win Michigan, Wisconsin? I think I’ll be as well if not better positioned than anybody else to be able to win those states.” “I think somebody from the Midwest could be a healing candidate in the sense that we’re so divided,” he added. “You can have a great 10-point plan, but if we don’t figure out how to come together, then we’re not going anywhere.” On “The View,” Mr. Ryan said his daughter had called him one day, crying, to tell him her friend was going to have to move because a local General Motors plant had closed. “My daughter called me and said, ‘You’ve got to do something,’” Mr. Ryan recalled. “And I said: ‘I’m going to do something. I’m going to run for president of the United States.’” Matt Stevens contributed reporting. Supported by Language has been neutralized when it should state the obvious. By Timothy Egan Contributing Opinion Writer  You could always slight the very rich by calling them moneybags, robber barons, fat cats or plutocrats. Billionaire was a neutral word, grounded in math: Such a person could spend $10 million a year, for 100 years, before the pile was gone. Then came Howard Schultz, a billionaire times two, insisting that people not use the B-word in describing him. Better to refer to the 540 Americans in his sensitive class as “people of means.” For this he was roundly mocked, and rightly so. The pushback to the pusher of our favorite South American drug is a fair start. But there is much more to clean up. For we live in a time when language has been weaponized for high crimes and petty cruelties, while neutralized when it should state the obvious. Democracy may die in darkness, as the slogan of a rival newspaper has it, but it also slips away under cover of euphemism. You can date it to Republican repackaging of the estate tax as a “death tax,” or tax cuts for the rich morphing into “tax relief” for the overly burdened. And were French fries really “freedom fries” during a spasm of faux-patriotism? Maybe the food marketers started us down this road when “natural” was slapped onto any label — turpentine, for example, which also happens to be gluten-free. Or Big Pharma, using “wellness” to describe treatment by drugs with names from a dance party: Lyrica, Celebrex, and then the Cialis gets passed around. All of that can be excused as framing to get an advantage. The Democrats are doing it now with the Green New Deal and “Medicare for all” — both of which sound pleasantly pie-in-the-sky and historically resonant until you look at the details, which their sponsors didn’t bother to do. The most egregious of political language fraud, as George Orwell noted in his seminal essay on the subject, is used for “the defense of the indefensible.” To that end, the Trump administration has been a fount of criminal circumlocution. We all know about “alternative facts” and “truth isn’t truth” and “fake news” — used by the administration to describe reality. But less attention has been paid to this government’s description of cages for young children separated from their parents. The Trump administration has invented “tender age” shelters to defend the indefensible. It sounds so caring. And Trump is downgrading “national emergency” from something that comes with a siren for a soundtrack to just another term for cheap political expediency.  It used to be a big deal for a reputable news organization to flat out call the president a liar. Now, liar must be the most-used descriptor linked to this president. It’s also the right word. But “liar” has lost its sting, because Trump clearly doesn’t care about telling the truth. As a journalist, I’d get in more trouble if I said the president is fat — my bad, I mean plus-sized. The word “socialist” is back in play. This term also used to sting, evoking Cold War authoritarians and empty store shelves. That was true then. What’s true now is that socialist “has lost its meaning,” especially among millennials, as Peter Buttigieg, the young presidential aspirant and mayor of South Bend, Ind., said. If used to describe help for the elderly, subsidized college or affordable health care, socialist is a net plus. If it implies total government control without choice, it’s a loser. We’ve only just begun the modern reframing of this power word. At the White House, “executive time” is the bogus term for the majority of the president’s day spent watching Fox News hosts praise him, tweeting insults or playing virtual golf in the new room-sized simulator just installed in the house where Lincoln slept. Kramer did more work in the “Seinfeld” episode where he pretended to have a job. The border “wall” is a “complexifier,” to use the odd word that multibillionaire Jeff Bezos introduced, but also central to Trumpian Newspeak. The wall doesn’t exist, not in the form Trump has described it — “a great, great wall” made of “hardened concrete.” And yet, it’ll soon be finished. How so? In a masterstroke of up-is-down, Trump’s rally in El Paso this week switched the “Build the Wall” slogan of his cult to “Finish the Wall.” As my colleagues at Upshot showed, Trump keeps weaseling out of his wall promise by changing the wording — a fence, a barrier, some German shepherds. The language is crucial here, because it’s the central lie of his presidency. Like Schultz, Trump wants to use his own verbal wallpaper to cover the truth.  I invite you to follow me on Twitter (@nytegan). The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported by Language has been neutralized when it should state the obvious. By Timothy Egan Contributing Opinion Writer  You could always slight the very rich by calling them moneybags, robber barons, fat cats or plutocrats. Billionaire was a neutral word, grounded in math: Such a person could spend $10 million a year, for 100 years, before the pile was gone. Then came Howard Schultz, a billionaire times two, insisting that people not use the B-word in describing him. Better to refer to the 540 Americans in his sensitive class as “people of means.” For this he was roundly mocked, and rightly so. The pushback to the pusher of our favorite South American drug is a fair start. But there is much more to clean up. For we live in a time when language has been weaponized for high crimes and petty cruelties, while neutralized when it should state the obvious. Democracy may die in darkness, as the slogan of a rival newspaper has it, but it also slips away under cover of euphemism. You can date it to Republican repackaging of the estate tax as a “death tax,” or tax cuts for the rich morphing into “tax relief” for the overly burdened. And were French fries really “freedom fries” during a spasm of faux-patriotism? Maybe the food marketers started us down this road when “natural” was slapped onto any label — turpentine, for example, which also happens to be gluten-free. Or Big Pharma, using “wellness” to describe treatment by drugs with names from a dance party: Lyrica, Celebrex, and then the Cialis gets passed around. All of that can be excused as framing to get an advantage. The Democrats are doing it now with the Green New Deal and “Medicare for all” — both of which sound pleasantly pie-in-the-sky and historically resonant until you look at the details, which their sponsors didn’t bother to do. The most egregious of political language fraud, as George Orwell noted in his seminal essay on the subject, is used for “the defense of the indefensible.” To that end, the Trump administration has been a fount of criminal circumlocution. We all know about “alternative facts” and “truth isn’t truth” and “fake news” — used by the administration to describe reality. But less attention has been paid to this government’s description of cages for young children separated from their parents. The Trump administration has invented “tender age” shelters to defend the indefensible. It sounds so caring. And Trump is downgrading “national emergency” from something that comes with a siren for a soundtrack to just another term for cheap political expediency.  It used to be a big deal for a reputable news organization to flat out call the president a liar. Now, liar must be the most-used descriptor linked to this president. It’s also the right word. But “liar” has lost its sting, because Trump clearly doesn’t care about telling the truth. As a journalist, I’d get in more trouble if I said the president is fat — my bad, I mean plus-sized. The word “socialist” is back in play. This term also used to sting, evoking Cold War authoritarians and empty store shelves. That was true then. What’s true now is that socialist “has lost its meaning,” especially among millennials, as Peter Buttigieg, the young presidential aspirant and mayor of South Bend, Ind., said. If used to describe help for the elderly, subsidized college or affordable health care, socialist is a net plus. If it implies total government control without choice, it’s a loser. We’ve only just begun the modern reframing of this power word. At the White House, “executive time” is the bogus term for the majority of the president’s day spent watching Fox News hosts praise him, tweeting insults or playing virtual golf in the new room-sized simulator just installed in the house where Lincoln slept. Kramer did more work in the “Seinfeld” episode where he pretended to have a job. The border “wall” is a “complexifier,” to use the odd word that multibillionaire Jeff Bezos introduced, but also central to Trumpian Newspeak. The wall doesn’t exist, not in the form Trump has described it — “a great, great wall” made of “hardened concrete.” And yet, it’ll soon be finished. How so? In a masterstroke of up-is-down, Trump’s rally in El Paso this week switched the “Build the Wall” slogan of his cult to “Finish the Wall.” As my colleagues at Upshot showed, Trump keeps weaseling out of his wall promise by changing the wording — a fence, a barrier, some German shepherds. The language is crucial here, because it’s the central lie of his presidency. Like Schultz, Trump wants to use his own verbal wallpaper to cover the truth.  I invite you to follow me on Twitter (@nytegan). The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Supported by Also: Nancy Pelosi and federal workers, victorious over President Trump. By David Leonhardt Opinion Columnist This article is part of David Leonhardt’s newsletter. You can sign up here to receive it each weekday. Pete Buttigieg’s notion of “intergenerational justice” — the subject of one of my newsletters last week — sent me on a data hunt. I dug into the numbers on income, wealth and other issues to see how millennials, baby boomers, my own Generation X and others are faring. The results tell a clear story, and it’s the story I tell in my column today: The fleecing of millennials. If you don’t have time to read the full column right now, check out the first two charts. Is Nancy Pelosi tired of winning yet? President Trump’s disconnection from reality is sometimes a big political advantage for him. Without any apparent interest in the facts, he is often able to persuade his supporters to believe whatever story is most favorable to himself. Other times, however, this disconnection from reality ends up hurting Trump. [Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.] The now-paused government shutdown is a good case study. Trump never had a good plan for ending the shutdown. He evidently figured he could bluff his way out of a political trap. But Nancy Pelosi, the speaker of the House, knew better. She knew that the politics favored the Democrats, not Trump. She understood that the shutdown was hurting him and that he would ultimately need to fold. On Friday, fold he did. It was one more reminder that Pelosi is the most effective speaker of modern times. In New York magazine, Sarah Jones notes that Pelosi wasn’t the only protagonist in the story. So were the federal workers — especially air traffic controllers, flight attendants and T.S.A. and I.R.S. employees — who began missing work in large enough numbers to create problems for the rest of the country.  “Workers bore the cost of the shutdown, and it shouldn’t surprise anyone that they began to revolt. By withholding their labor, they redirected the pain the Trump administration had inflicted upon them,” Jones writes.  The Mueller report, a preview Over the weekend, Jennifer Taub of Vermont Law School put together an excellent summary of the findings that Robert Mueller’s investigation has produced. “Pay attention to documents already filed,” Taub tweeted. “Through them, we’ve seen much of the Mueller Report. And it is spectacular.” Taub’s list: George Papadopoulos, a Trump campaign adviser, lied to the F.B.I. about his extensive contacts with a London-based professor who said he was close with Russian officials and had “dirt” on Hillary Clinton. Papadopoulos then informed higher-ranking campaign officials of these contacts. Michael Flynn, Trump’s national security adviser, lied to the F.B.I. about phone calls he had with the Russian ambassador to the United States. He had coordinated those calls with at least one other member of the Trump transition team. Michael Cohen, Trump’s former attorney, lied to Congress about a planned Trump business deal in Moscow.  Paul Manafort, shortly before becoming Trump’s campaign chairman, shared campaign polling data with Konstantin Kilimnik, a Russian with apparent ties to Russian military intelligence.  Roger Stone, a longtime Trump adviser, lied to Congress about his attempts to communicate with WikiLeaks, which is closely linked to 12 Russian intelligence officials who hacked Democrats’ emails. During the 2016 campaign and after, Trump repeatedly lied about his own Russian contacts. If you are not a subscriber to this newsletter, you can subscribe here. You can also join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt • Facebook 

Supported by Also: Nancy Pelosi and federal workers, victorious over President Trump. By David Leonhardt Opinion Columnist This article is part of David Leonhardt’s newsletter. You can sign up here to receive it each weekday. Pete Buttigieg’s notion of “intergenerational justice” — the subject of one of my newsletters last week — sent me on a data hunt. I dug into the numbers on income, wealth and other issues to see how millennials, baby boomers, my own Generation X and others are faring. The results tell a clear story, and it’s the story I tell in my column today: The fleecing of millennials. If you don’t have time to read the full column right now, check out the first two charts. Is Nancy Pelosi tired of winning yet? President Trump’s disconnection from reality is sometimes a big political advantage for him. Without any apparent interest in the facts, he is often able to persuade his supporters to believe whatever story is most favorable to himself. Other times, however, this disconnection from reality ends up hurting Trump. [Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.] The now-paused government shutdown is a good case study. Trump never had a good plan for ending the shutdown. He evidently figured he could bluff his way out of a political trap. But Nancy Pelosi, the speaker of the House, knew better. She knew that the politics favored the Democrats, not Trump. She understood that the shutdown was hurting him and that he would ultimately need to fold. On Friday, fold he did. It was one more reminder that Pelosi is the most effective speaker of modern times. In New York magazine, Sarah Jones notes that Pelosi wasn’t the only protagonist in the story. So were the federal workers — especially air traffic controllers, flight attendants and T.S.A. and I.R.S. employees — who began missing work in large enough numbers to create problems for the rest of the country.  “Workers bore the cost of the shutdown, and it shouldn’t surprise anyone that they began to revolt. By withholding their labor, they redirected the pain the Trump administration had inflicted upon them,” Jones writes.  The Mueller report, a preview Over the weekend, Jennifer Taub of Vermont Law School put together an excellent summary of the findings that Robert Mueller’s investigation has produced. “Pay attention to documents already filed,” Taub tweeted. “Through them, we’ve seen much of the Mueller Report. And it is spectacular.” Taub’s list: George Papadopoulos, a Trump campaign adviser, lied to the F.B.I. about his extensive contacts with a London-based professor who said he was close with Russian officials and had “dirt” on Hillary Clinton. Papadopoulos then informed higher-ranking campaign officials of these contacts. Michael Flynn, Trump’s national security adviser, lied to the F.B.I. about phone calls he had with the Russian ambassador to the United States. He had coordinated those calls with at least one other member of the Trump transition team. Michael Cohen, Trump’s former attorney, lied to Congress about a planned Trump business deal in Moscow.  Paul Manafort, shortly before becoming Trump’s campaign chairman, shared campaign polling data with Konstantin Kilimnik, a Russian with apparent ties to Russian military intelligence.  Roger Stone, a longtime Trump adviser, lied to Congress about his attempts to communicate with WikiLeaks, which is closely linked to 12 Russian intelligence officials who hacked Democrats’ emails. During the 2016 campaign and after, Trump repeatedly lied about his own Russian contacts. If you are not a subscriber to this newsletter, you can subscribe here. You can also join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt • Facebook Supported by By The Associated Press TRAVELERS REST, S.C. — Sit down in New Hampshire for a leading liberal podcast. Tour flood damage in Iowa. Feed some sheep, shoot some hoops, drink local beer in South Carolina. And along the way, hammer home a pledge to combat climate change and "make Donald Trump a blip in history." That's the deliberate, sometimes understated approach for Washington Gov. Jay Inslee as the 2020 Democratic presidential hopeful navigates the shadows of rivals who have bigger crowds, better name identification and heftier campaign accounts. But the 68-year-old Inslee, who boasts decades of electoral success, doesn't apologize for his methodical plan with climate action as his calling card. He insists it's both an existential necessity for the nation and a political necessity for him. "We have the right strategy, which is to identify a unique mission statement first," Inslee told The Associated Press at the conclusion of his recent three-state campaign swing, his first extended trip since his March 1 campaign launch. "We wanted to do that and get that flag firmly planted. We're still planting it." The political calculus is simple enough. Despite more than a decade in Congress and six years in the governor's mansion, Inslee remains a little-known politician from the Pacific Northwest, away from the media glare and donor base of the East Coast. So he needs something more to get attention alongside the likes of Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders, an icon of the progressive movement; Kamala Harris, a California senator with 40 million constituents; or even another underdog like Pete Buttigieg, the 37-year-old mayor of South Bend, Indiana, who's become a sensation in the early months of the campaign. His policy niche has landed him regular national media appearances, most recently on a New Hampshire taping of Pod Save America, a top podcast on the left. The question is whether it can translate into votes. "His focus on climate change is important, so I'd like to see him stay in the race for a while," said Cross Ganaway, a 46-year-old in technology sales, explaining why he came to a Greenville County, South Carolina, meet-and-greet to see Inslee. Yet Ganaway's list of 2020 favorites — Sanders, Harris and Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren — underscores why Inslee needs the second step of his strategy: Explain to voters who have noticed his climate pitch that he's not a one-trick pony but an experienced official with a record of liberal accomplishments and votes. Inslee's recent itinerary tested his campaign two-step. He mixed climate-focused events (touring a flooded Iowa town, visiting redeveloped brownfields and a solar farm in South Carolina) with the retail politics voters see from any would-be presidential candidate (Q&A sessions in a church assembly hall, a small-town barn and a brewery). And his stump speech for those events is replete with brag points that go beyond climate and environmental policy. "The best paid family and medical leave law in the country ... the highest state minimum wage," Inslee told several dozen eager Democrats at a South Carolina church. Washington state is "the best place to do business," according to one business publication, he said. "The best state to work," according to another labor analysis. When asked about health care, Inslee noted he's pushing for "the first state-based public option" insurance plan to compete alongside private insurance. At the brewery, Ganaway asked him about foreign policy, so Inslee used his answer in part to tout his 2003 congressional vote against the Iraq invasion. "I was right," he said. Inslee deflected a question about his opponents, opting for humor instead: "They're all talented, and they'll all make great vice presidents." Yet amid the laughter and applause common to early presidential dalliances, there also are signs of the struggles that have quashed many Oval Office ambitions. Janice Ryan-Bohan, a scientist and entrepreneur specializing in alternative energy, drove several hours from Charleston, South Carolina, to hear Inslee in Greenville. She praised his message and climate expertise, and after an open Q&A, she spent several minutes with Inslee's deputy campaign manager, Ben Unger, advising him on how to reach more voters in South Carolina. "I'll hook you up with all the greens in the Lowcountry," Ryan-Bohan told him, referring to her fellow activists along the coast. Yet once Inslee and his aides left South Carolina, they left no one behind who can follow up in person. "There's time to do what you might call the more traditional work," Inslee told the AP, adding that "we're just starting" to make staff hires in the early voting states. The same challenge arose in New Hampshire, as well, where Inslee was open about needing more contributors to reach the 65,000-donor mark that is part of the Democratic National Committee's qualifications for two summer debates. "Even a dollar" will help, Inslee says, directing voters to his campaign website JayInslee.com. In Hollis, New Hampshire, 70-year-old Joanne Emus was ready to donate onsite, but she couldn't find anyone to help. "He said he needs money," she said, "but I don't see any envelopes." ___ Associated Press writer Hunter Woodall contributed to this report from Hollis, N.H. ___ Follow Barrow on Twitter at https://twitter.com/BillBarrowAP .

Supported by By The Associated Press TRAVELERS REST, S.C. — Sit down in New Hampshire for a leading liberal podcast. Tour flood damage in Iowa. Feed some sheep, shoot some hoops, drink local beer in South Carolina. And along the way, hammer home a pledge to combat climate change and "make Donald Trump a blip in history." That's the deliberate, sometimes understated approach for Washington Gov. Jay Inslee as the 2020 Democratic presidential hopeful navigates the shadows of rivals who have bigger crowds, better name identification and heftier campaign accounts. But the 68-year-old Inslee, who boasts decades of electoral success, doesn't apologize for his methodical plan with climate action as his calling card. He insists it's both an existential necessity for the nation and a political necessity for him. "We have the right strategy, which is to identify a unique mission statement first," Inslee told The Associated Press at the conclusion of his recent three-state campaign swing, his first extended trip since his March 1 campaign launch. "We wanted to do that and get that flag firmly planted. We're still planting it." The political calculus is simple enough. Despite more than a decade in Congress and six years in the governor's mansion, Inslee remains a little-known politician from the Pacific Northwest, away from the media glare and donor base of the East Coast. So he needs something more to get attention alongside the likes of Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders, an icon of the progressive movement; Kamala Harris, a California senator with 40 million constituents; or even another underdog like Pete Buttigieg, the 37-year-old mayor of South Bend, Indiana, who's become a sensation in the early months of the campaign. His policy niche has landed him regular national media appearances, most recently on a New Hampshire taping of Pod Save America, a top podcast on the left. The question is whether it can translate into votes. "His focus on climate change is important, so I'd like to see him stay in the race for a while," said Cross Ganaway, a 46-year-old in technology sales, explaining why he came to a Greenville County, South Carolina, meet-and-greet to see Inslee. Yet Ganaway's list of 2020 favorites — Sanders, Harris and Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren — underscores why Inslee needs the second step of his strategy: Explain to voters who have noticed his climate pitch that he's not a one-trick pony but an experienced official with a record of liberal accomplishments and votes. Inslee's recent itinerary tested his campaign two-step. He mixed climate-focused events (touring a flooded Iowa town, visiting redeveloped brownfields and a solar farm in South Carolina) with the retail politics voters see from any would-be presidential candidate (Q&A sessions in a church assembly hall, a small-town barn and a brewery). And his stump speech for those events is replete with brag points that go beyond climate and environmental policy. "The best paid family and medical leave law in the country ... the highest state minimum wage," Inslee told several dozen eager Democrats at a South Carolina church. Washington state is "the best place to do business," according to one business publication, he said. "The best state to work," according to another labor analysis. When asked about health care, Inslee noted he's pushing for "the first state-based public option" insurance plan to compete alongside private insurance. At the brewery, Ganaway asked him about foreign policy, so Inslee used his answer in part to tout his 2003 congressional vote against the Iraq invasion. "I was right," he said. Inslee deflected a question about his opponents, opting for humor instead: "They're all talented, and they'll all make great vice presidents." Yet amid the laughter and applause common to early presidential dalliances, there also are signs of the struggles that have quashed many Oval Office ambitions. Janice Ryan-Bohan, a scientist and entrepreneur specializing in alternative energy, drove several hours from Charleston, South Carolina, to hear Inslee in Greenville. She praised his message and climate expertise, and after an open Q&A, she spent several minutes with Inslee's deputy campaign manager, Ben Unger, advising him on how to reach more voters in South Carolina. "I'll hook you up with all the greens in the Lowcountry," Ryan-Bohan told him, referring to her fellow activists along the coast. Yet once Inslee and his aides left South Carolina, they left no one behind who can follow up in person. "There's time to do what you might call the more traditional work," Inslee told the AP, adding that "we're just starting" to make staff hires in the early voting states. The same challenge arose in New Hampshire, as well, where Inslee was open about needing more contributors to reach the 65,000-donor mark that is part of the Democratic National Committee's qualifications for two summer debates. "Even a dollar" will help, Inslee says, directing voters to his campaign website JayInslee.com. In Hollis, New Hampshire, 70-year-old Joanne Emus was ready to donate onsite, but she couldn't find anyone to help. "He said he needs money," she said, "but I don't see any envelopes." ___ Associated Press writer Hunter Woodall contributed to this report from Hollis, N.H. ___ Follow Barrow on Twitter at https://twitter.com/BillBarrowAP .Supported by By Alexander Burns A secret meeting of former President Barack Obama’s financial backers convened in Washington early this month: Organized by David Jacobson and John Phillips, Mr. Obama’s former ambassadors to Canada and Italy, the group interviewed an array of 2020 presidential candidates and debated whether to throw their wealth behind one or two of them. Mr. Obama had no role in the event, but it unfolded in his political shadow: As presidential hopefuls like Senators Kamala Harris, Cory Booker, Amy Klobuchar and Sherrod Brown auditioned before them, the donors wondered aloud whether Mr. Obama might signal a preference in the race, according to three people briefed on the meeting, who spoke on condition of anonymity. David Axelrod, Mr. Obama’s former chief strategist, told the group they should expect no such directive. Mr. Axelrod confirmed in an interview that he briefed the gathering, recalling: “They asked me about Obama endorsing. I said, ‘I don’t imagine he will.’” Mr. Axelrod said he had been sharing his own perspective, not speaking as an official Obama emissary. But his forecast matches what Mr. Obama has told friends and likely presidential candidates in private: that he does not see it as his role to settle the 2020 nomination, and prefers to let the primary unfold as a contest of ideas. Michelle Obama, the former first lady, also has no plans to endorse a candidate, a person familiar with her thinking said. Even former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. does not expect to secure Mr. Obama’s backing if he runs, according to allies of Mr. Biden’s. Yet if Mr. Obama has all but officially taken a vow of neutrality, he remains the party’s most convincing model for success at the national level, and continues to shape the mind-set and strategy of Democratic presidential candidates. [Who’s in, who’s out, who might be in. Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.] He has counseled more than a dozen declared or likely candidates on what he believes it will take to beat President Trump, holding private talks with leading contenders like Ms. Harris, Mr. Booker and Senator Elizabeth Warren; underdogs like Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Ind.; and prominent figures who remain undecided on the race, like Eric H. Holder, his former attorney general, and Michael R. Bloomberg, the former mayor of New York. During these informal conversations, usually at his office in Washington, Mr. Obama has offered a combination of supportive advice and sober warnings, cautioning candidates that running for president is a more punishing process than they could ever imagine, according to seven people who have spoken with him directly or were briefed in detail on the meetings. Mr. Obama continues to express frustration that he did not anticipate Mr. Trump’s victory, these people said, even after years of clashing with the forces of right-wing populism as president. He has urged candidates to push back on Mr. Trump’s bleak and divisive rhetoric about economic change, and to deliver a competing message that can resonate even in Republican-leaning areas, courting rural voters and other communities that tend to distrust Democrats. Eric Schultz, a senior adviser to Mr. Obama, said the former president was encouraged by the “diverse, experienced and principled” field of candidates taking shape, and said Mr. Obama had been “happy to speak privately with candidates seeking his guidance on the best way to lead the country.” “President Obama counsels candidates to always show up and make their case even in areas or in front of audiences they may not necessarily win; express views and positions that reflect their genuine beliefs; and share a positive vision for the country true to their own personal story,” he said. The discreet role Mr. Obama is taking reflects his longstanding ambivalence about acting as a partisan political leader, and has the potential to disappoint Democrats who pine for him to intercede more decisively. Known for his lack of interest in intraparty wrangling when he was president, Mr. Obama has privately voiced both an impatience to move on from politics and an urgent sense of responsibility to do what he can to thwart Mr. Trump. Some Democrats still hope Mr. Obama might help resolve the primary in an active way, perhaps if the contest narrows to just two candidates and he believes one of them cannot beat Mr. Trump. Steve Westly, a California investor who was a major fund-raiser for Mr. Obama, said he expected the race to “come down to two or three candidates very quickly” and foresaw an opening for Mr. Obama to act. “I am sure he feels, as an American, that he wants to make sure the Democratic Party puts up the best possible candidate,” Mr. Westly said. [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] Mr. Obama has indicated to candidates that he worries about the possibility of a damaging primary fight, and has urged them to avoid attacking each other in bitterly personal terms that could help Mr. Trump. He has also hinted that he sees a relatively open space for a more moderate Democrat, given the abundance of hard-charging liberals in the race. Democrats have kept the meetings almost entirely confidential, out of deference to Mr. Obama. Beto O’Rourke, the former Texas Senate candidate, briefly described his session with the former president in an interview with Oprah Winfrey this month, recalling that Mr. Obama spoke with disarming candor about the personal strain of running for president. Mr. O’Rourke said Mr. Obama had not lobbied him to run. “You asked if he encouraged me to; he did not,” Mr. O’Rourke said. “But he was very generous in sharing what his thought process was, leading up to that decision.” Other candidates have declined to share details of their meetings with Mr. Obama, but invoke him reverently on the campaign trail. Mr. Booker drew laughter and applause from a crowd in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, last weekend, when he declared: “I miss Obama — and I miss her husband, too!” The primary will represent something of a test for Mr. Obama’s brand of politics, if perhaps not of his influence within the party. He is personally revered by many Democrats, and his achievements like the Affordable Care Act, the Paris climate agreement and the regulations he imposed on banks and coal companies are seen as sacrosanct by most liberals. But Mr. Obama’s party has also plainly moved leftward on core matters of policy since his term ended, and some factions have grown contemptuous of the consensus-seeking approach Mr. Obama took as president. The coming primary campaign may hinge in part on whether Democratic voters favor making gradual improvements to Mr. Obama’s legacy or pursuing more disruptive policy changes like enacting single-payer health care. Mr. Obama’s doctrine of nonintervention could represent a setback, though not an unexpected one, to Mr. Biden. The former vice president and his political allies have confided to potential supporters that they do not expect Mr. Obama to issue an endorsement in the primary, for Mr. Biden or anyone else. But the two men have discussed the race, and allies of Mr. Biden hope Mr. Obama might speak favorably about Mr. Biden’s service as his running mate and vice president, people who have spoken to Mr. Biden’s inner circle said. Bill Russo, a spokesman for Mr. Biden, declined to comment. In public and private, Mr. Obama has spoken admiringly about a few potential presidential candidates as they burst upon the national scene, applauding signs that a newer generation of leaders is rising in the party. He has told friends that Mr. O’Rourke and Mr. Buttigieg represent precisely that kind of generational change, and expressed deep admiration for Mitch Landrieu, the former mayor of New Orleans, for his approach to removing Confederate statues in his city. After campaigning in Georgia last fall, Mr. Obama described Stacey Abrams, the party’s nominee for governor in 2018, as one of the most impressive candidates he had encountered. And Mr. Obama took a keen interest in Deval Patrick, the former governor of Massachusetts, when he was considering a presidential run last year. A former civil rights lawyer with moderate instincts, Mr. Patrick spoke repeatedly with Mr. Obama before announcing in December that he would not run, citing the strain a campaign would impose on his family. Mr. Obama has spoken out selectively since leaving office, usually focusing on themes related to the integrity of the political system. He campaigned widely in the midterm elections, focusing many of his endorsements on promoting women and candidates of color, and he has taken a leading role in a group set up to fight congressional gerrymandering, the National Democratic Redistricting Committee. Mr. Obama is expected to help raise money in the coming months for the organization, said a spokesman for the group, which is helmed by Mr. Holder. To some veteran Obama supporters, there is a certain irony to Democrats wishing that Mr. Obama would act as an old-school party leader and decree his preferences from on high. Rufus Gifford, a top Obama fund-raiser who served as ambassador to Denmark, suggested that the diversity of the Democratic candidates was a consequence of Mr. Obama’s pathbreaking presidency. He said the 2020 field was a tribute to the former president, even if it left voters and donors struggling to parse their options. “You look at the number of women, the racial diversity, the diversity of experience, the different levels of public service — I think a lot of that can and should be attributed to the legacy of Barack Obama,” Mr. Gifford said. Jonathan Martin contributed reporting.   

Supported by By Alexander Burns A secret meeting of former President Barack Obama’s financial backers convened in Washington early this month: Organized by David Jacobson and John Phillips, Mr. Obama’s former ambassadors to Canada and Italy, the group interviewed an array of 2020 presidential candidates and debated whether to throw their wealth behind one or two of them. Mr. Obama had no role in the event, but it unfolded in his political shadow: As presidential hopefuls like Senators Kamala Harris, Cory Booker, Amy Klobuchar and Sherrod Brown auditioned before them, the donors wondered aloud whether Mr. Obama might signal a preference in the race, according to three people briefed on the meeting, who spoke on condition of anonymity. David Axelrod, Mr. Obama’s former chief strategist, told the group they should expect no such directive. Mr. Axelrod confirmed in an interview that he briefed the gathering, recalling: “They asked me about Obama endorsing. I said, ‘I don’t imagine he will.’” Mr. Axelrod said he had been sharing his own perspective, not speaking as an official Obama emissary. But his forecast matches what Mr. Obama has told friends and likely presidential candidates in private: that he does not see it as his role to settle the 2020 nomination, and prefers to let the primary unfold as a contest of ideas. Michelle Obama, the former first lady, also has no plans to endorse a candidate, a person familiar with her thinking said. Even former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. does not expect to secure Mr. Obama’s backing if he runs, according to allies of Mr. Biden’s. Yet if Mr. Obama has all but officially taken a vow of neutrality, he remains the party’s most convincing model for success at the national level, and continues to shape the mind-set and strategy of Democratic presidential candidates. [Who’s in, who’s out, who might be in. Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.] He has counseled more than a dozen declared or likely candidates on what he believes it will take to beat President Trump, holding private talks with leading contenders like Ms. Harris, Mr. Booker and Senator Elizabeth Warren; underdogs like Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Ind.; and prominent figures who remain undecided on the race, like Eric H. Holder, his former attorney general, and Michael R. Bloomberg, the former mayor of New York. During these informal conversations, usually at his office in Washington, Mr. Obama has offered a combination of supportive advice and sober warnings, cautioning candidates that running for president is a more punishing process than they could ever imagine, according to seven people who have spoken with him directly or were briefed in detail on the meetings. Mr. Obama continues to express frustration that he did not anticipate Mr. Trump’s victory, these people said, even after years of clashing with the forces of right-wing populism as president. He has urged candidates to push back on Mr. Trump’s bleak and divisive rhetoric about economic change, and to deliver a competing message that can resonate even in Republican-leaning areas, courting rural voters and other communities that tend to distrust Democrats. Eric Schultz, a senior adviser to Mr. Obama, said the former president was encouraged by the “diverse, experienced and principled” field of candidates taking shape, and said Mr. Obama had been “happy to speak privately with candidates seeking his guidance on the best way to lead the country.” “President Obama counsels candidates to always show up and make their case even in areas or in front of audiences they may not necessarily win; express views and positions that reflect their genuine beliefs; and share a positive vision for the country true to their own personal story,” he said. The discreet role Mr. Obama is taking reflects his longstanding ambivalence about acting as a partisan political leader, and has the potential to disappoint Democrats who pine for him to intercede more decisively. Known for his lack of interest in intraparty wrangling when he was president, Mr. Obama has privately voiced both an impatience to move on from politics and an urgent sense of responsibility to do what he can to thwart Mr. Trump. Some Democrats still hope Mr. Obama might help resolve the primary in an active way, perhaps if the contest narrows to just two candidates and he believes one of them cannot beat Mr. Trump. Steve Westly, a California investor who was a major fund-raiser for Mr. Obama, said he expected the race to “come down to two or three candidates very quickly” and foresaw an opening for Mr. Obama to act. “I am sure he feels, as an American, that he wants to make sure the Democratic Party puts up the best possible candidate,” Mr. Westly said. [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] Mr. Obama has indicated to candidates that he worries about the possibility of a damaging primary fight, and has urged them to avoid attacking each other in bitterly personal terms that could help Mr. Trump. He has also hinted that he sees a relatively open space for a more moderate Democrat, given the abundance of hard-charging liberals in the race. Democrats have kept the meetings almost entirely confidential, out of deference to Mr. Obama. Beto O’Rourke, the former Texas Senate candidate, briefly described his session with the former president in an interview with Oprah Winfrey this month, recalling that Mr. Obama spoke with disarming candor about the personal strain of running for president. Mr. O’Rourke said Mr. Obama had not lobbied him to run. “You asked if he encouraged me to; he did not,” Mr. O’Rourke said. “But he was very generous in sharing what his thought process was, leading up to that decision.” Other candidates have declined to share details of their meetings with Mr. Obama, but invoke him reverently on the campaign trail. Mr. Booker drew laughter and applause from a crowd in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, last weekend, when he declared: “I miss Obama — and I miss her husband, too!” The primary will represent something of a test for Mr. Obama’s brand of politics, if perhaps not of his influence within the party. He is personally revered by many Democrats, and his achievements like the Affordable Care Act, the Paris climate agreement and the regulations he imposed on banks and coal companies are seen as sacrosanct by most liberals. But Mr. Obama’s party has also plainly moved leftward on core matters of policy since his term ended, and some factions have grown contemptuous of the consensus-seeking approach Mr. Obama took as president. The coming primary campaign may hinge in part on whether Democratic voters favor making gradual improvements to Mr. Obama’s legacy or pursuing more disruptive policy changes like enacting single-payer health care. Mr. Obama’s doctrine of nonintervention could represent a setback, though not an unexpected one, to Mr. Biden. The former vice president and his political allies have confided to potential supporters that they do not expect Mr. Obama to issue an endorsement in the primary, for Mr. Biden or anyone else. But the two men have discussed the race, and allies of Mr. Biden hope Mr. Obama might speak favorably about Mr. Biden’s service as his running mate and vice president, people who have spoken to Mr. Biden’s inner circle said. Bill Russo, a spokesman for Mr. Biden, declined to comment. In public and private, Mr. Obama has spoken admiringly about a few potential presidential candidates as they burst upon the national scene, applauding signs that a newer generation of leaders is rising in the party. He has told friends that Mr. O’Rourke and Mr. Buttigieg represent precisely that kind of generational change, and expressed deep admiration for Mitch Landrieu, the former mayor of New Orleans, for his approach to removing Confederate statues in his city. After campaigning in Georgia last fall, Mr. Obama described Stacey Abrams, the party’s nominee for governor in 2018, as one of the most impressive candidates he had encountered. And Mr. Obama took a keen interest in Deval Patrick, the former governor of Massachusetts, when he was considering a presidential run last year. A former civil rights lawyer with moderate instincts, Mr. Patrick spoke repeatedly with Mr. Obama before announcing in December that he would not run, citing the strain a campaign would impose on his family. Mr. Obama has spoken out selectively since leaving office, usually focusing on themes related to the integrity of the political system. He campaigned widely in the midterm elections, focusing many of his endorsements on promoting women and candidates of color, and he has taken a leading role in a group set up to fight congressional gerrymandering, the National Democratic Redistricting Committee. Mr. Obama is expected to help raise money in the coming months for the organization, said a spokesman for the group, which is helmed by Mr. Holder. To some veteran Obama supporters, there is a certain irony to Democrats wishing that Mr. Obama would act as an old-school party leader and decree his preferences from on high. Rufus Gifford, a top Obama fund-raiser who served as ambassador to Denmark, suggested that the diversity of the Democratic candidates was a consequence of Mr. Obama’s pathbreaking presidency. He said the 2020 field was a tribute to the former president, even if it left voters and donors struggling to parse their options. “You look at the number of women, the racial diversity, the diversity of experience, the different levels of public service — I think a lot of that can and should be attributed to the legacy of Barack Obama,” Mr. Gifford said. Jonathan Martin contributed reporting.   Supported by By Chris Stanford (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good morning, We start today with a glimmer of hope in the shutdown talks, the revival of the military’s transgender ban, and Serena Williams’s loss at the Australian Open. Lawmakers are to consider two spending measures on Thursday, the first time senators are addressing the budget impasse since the partial government shutdown began last month. One of the bills includes President Trump’s call for $5.7 billion for a border wall, the other is a short-term funding proposal by Democrats that wouldn’t finance a wall. Neither measure is expected to pass, but there’s hope that the votes will lead to negotiations for a bipartisan compromise. Go deeper: Mr. Trump has been focusing almost exclusively on the wall, suspending the rest of his policy agenda, because he’s convinced his presidency is on the line, our chief White House correspondent writes. By a 5-4 vote on Tuesday, the justices granted the Trump administration’s request to bar most transgender people from military service while cases challenging the policy move forward in lower courts. President Trump announced the ban in 2017, saying that American forces couldn’t afford the “tremendous medical costs and disruption” of transgender service members. The policy makes exceptions for those already serving openly and those willing to serve “in their biological sex.” Gun rights: The court also said it would hear its first Second Amendment case in nearly a decade, a test of the justices’ approach to gun rights after the arrival of Brett Kavanaugh, a conservative, in October. The case involves a New York City law that limits residents from transporting guns outside their homes. DACA: The court took no action on the Trump administration’s plans to shut down the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, which shields some 700,000 young undocumented immigrants from deportation. That means the court will almost certainly not hear the administration’s challenge in its current term, which ends in June. Juan Guaidó, 35, an opposition leader and president of the National Assembly, has called on Venezuelans to take to the streets today to protest the government of President Nicolás Maduro and the economic crisis that has led more than three million people to flee the country. Catch up: The president was sworn in for a second term this month, after a disputed election that many countries didn’t recognize, and Mr. Guaidó says the government is illegitimate. Mr. Maduro dismisses the opposition as “little boys” who are pawns of the Trump administration. Yesterday: Vice President Mike Pence declared Washington’s “unwavering support” for the planned demonstrations. In his latest clash with the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, Gov. Andrew Cuomo opposed a requested fare increase on Tuesday and questioned whether the agency really needed the revenue to make much-needed improvements.  “Tighten your belt. Make the place run better,” said Mr. Cuomo, who has repeatedly complained about the agency’s bureaucracy. A vote on Thursday could determine whether the cost of a MetroCard swipe will go up to $3 in March. In numbers: Experts predict the M.T.A. will have a deficit of nearly $1 billion by 2022. Subway leaders warn they will have to raise fares or cut services unless other revenue sources are found.  The former Soviet republic of Georgia has offered tax breaks, land deals and cheap energy to attract tech-savvy entrepreneurs and the high-powered computers that are needed to mine the cryptocurrency Bitcoin, even though its value has tumbled. Our chief European business correspondent traveled to the capital, Tbilisi, to learn more about a “state-supported dash toward data supremacy.” Los Angeles teachers end strike: Tens of thousands of employees in the nation’s second-largest public school system are set to return to work today after they reached a deal to end a weeklong strike. The agreement includes caps on class sizes, and hiring full-time nurses for every school. The 2020 election: Pete Buttigieg, the 37-year-old mayor of South Bend, Ind., announced today that he was starting a Democratic presidential campaign. A veteran of the war in Afghanistan, Mr. Buttigieg is the first openly gay candidate to join the 2020 presidential race. Chris Brown case: The R&B singer was released without charges after being questioned in Paris over accusations of rape.  Snapshot: Above, Roman Catholic priests heard confessions at a park in Panama City on Tuesday as part of World Youth Day. Hundreds of thousands of people are expected at the five-day event, which Pope Francis will attend. In memoriam: Russell Baker, one of the most celebrated American writers and a two-time Pulitzer Prize winner, died on Monday at 93. His column (including one about a dreaded Christmas fruitcake) appeared in The Times and other newspapers for 36 years. Oscar nominations: Netflix received its first best picture nod for “Roma,” a foreign-language film that tied with “The Favourite” to lead the nominations, at 10 each. Here’s a complete list of the nominees, as well as the snubs and surprises. Baseball Hall of Fame: Mariano Rivera, the relief pitcher who helped the New York Yankees win five World Series, became the first player to be elected unanimously to the Hall of Fame. Serena Williams is out: Williams was one point from victory today when she appeared to injure herself, eventually losing to seventh-seeded Karolina Pliskova in the Australian Open quarterfinals. Here are all the scores. Late-night comedy: Conan O’Brien returned with a new version of his show and a more casual outfit: “This is how I dress in real life — I call my look: ‘hip biology teacher.’” What we’re reading: This essay in The Bitter Southerner. “The Tennessee food writer Jennifer Justus wrote this unexpected story about the grandes dames of Nashville music told through their cookbooks,” writes Kim Severson, our national food correspondent. “It starts with a recipe for ‘Husband’s Delight’ from Tammy Wynette, and ends with the revelation that even recipes from Chet Atkins and Merle Haggard came from Southern women.”  Cook: Harissa, a North African chile paste, turns canned chickpeas into a fast, spicy soup. Watch: Many Oscar-nominated movies are already available to stream, including “Roma” and “Black Panther.” Listen: Our Popcast features a guide to new artists, from British punk-rap to morbid electronic pop. See: “She Persists: A Century of Women Artists in New York,” an installation of works by 44 artists and collectives in the public spaces of Gracie Mansion. Smarter Living: Salary transparency has many benefits, but if you discover you’re being paid less than a colleague, don’t run to tell your boss that. Instead, a negotiations expert suggests starting with something like: “Based on my market research and discussions with people within my network who are in similar roles, an uplift of X percent would reflect my contributions.” And we looked at the next generation of fitness trackers: stretchy, battery-free patches that analyze your sweat for a real-time gauge of your health. World leaders and chief executives  have converged in Davos, Switzerland, for the annual meeting of the World Economic Forum. The global elite come to discuss the world’s problems — and maybe squeeze in some skiing. Long before the forum existed, Davos was linked to Europe’s bourgeoisie as the setting of “The Magic Mountain,” the 1924 novel by Thomas Mann.  We asked Pamela Paul, the editor of the Book Review, what today’s readers should know about the book, which follows a wealthy young German through seven years in a tuberculosis sanitarium just before World War I. “Many people read it as a metaphor for the sickness of Europe on the brink of war,” she answered. “Well-heeled invalids gather indefinitely, for a cure that doesn’t necessarily come — perhaps deliberately. The longer they stay, the greater the owner’s profits. “They spend their days gossiping, pursuing love affairs and having abstract arguments that never reach any decisive resolution.” That’s it for this briefing. See you next time. — Chris Thank youInyoung Kang helped compile today’s briefing, and Eleanor Stanford and James K. Williamson provided our break from the news. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com. P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is about the encounter between high school students and a Native American man in Washington.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Genre for Philip K. Dick and N.K. Jemisin (5 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • The Times first reported from Davos, Switzerland, in 1890 — covering a new railroad that cut travel time from London to only 30 hours. An earlier version of this briefing misstated the percentage increase of single fares that is under consideration by the Metropolitan Transportation Authority in New York City. A base fare rise to $3 would represent an increase of 9 percent, not 4 percent. (Under two proposals the authority’s board has been considering, the increase for a majority of transit system users would be 4 percent.) Chris Stanford is based in London and writes the U.S. version of the Morning Briefing. He also compiles a weekly news quiz. He was previously a producer for the desktop home page and mobile site, helping to present The New York Times’s news report to readers. Before joining The Times in 2013, he was an editor and designer at The Washington Post and other news organizations.  @stanfordc 

Supported by By Chris Stanford (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good morning, We start today with a glimmer of hope in the shutdown talks, the revival of the military’s transgender ban, and Serena Williams’s loss at the Australian Open. Lawmakers are to consider two spending measures on Thursday, the first time senators are addressing the budget impasse since the partial government shutdown began last month. One of the bills includes President Trump’s call for $5.7 billion for a border wall, the other is a short-term funding proposal by Democrats that wouldn’t finance a wall. Neither measure is expected to pass, but there’s hope that the votes will lead to negotiations for a bipartisan compromise. Go deeper: Mr. Trump has been focusing almost exclusively on the wall, suspending the rest of his policy agenda, because he’s convinced his presidency is on the line, our chief White House correspondent writes. By a 5-4 vote on Tuesday, the justices granted the Trump administration’s request to bar most transgender people from military service while cases challenging the policy move forward in lower courts. President Trump announced the ban in 2017, saying that American forces couldn’t afford the “tremendous medical costs and disruption” of transgender service members. The policy makes exceptions for those already serving openly and those willing to serve “in their biological sex.” Gun rights: The court also said it would hear its first Second Amendment case in nearly a decade, a test of the justices’ approach to gun rights after the arrival of Brett Kavanaugh, a conservative, in October. The case involves a New York City law that limits residents from transporting guns outside their homes. DACA: The court took no action on the Trump administration’s plans to shut down the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, which shields some 700,000 young undocumented immigrants from deportation. That means the court will almost certainly not hear the administration’s challenge in its current term, which ends in June. Juan Guaidó, 35, an opposition leader and president of the National Assembly, has called on Venezuelans to take to the streets today to protest the government of President Nicolás Maduro and the economic crisis that has led more than three million people to flee the country. Catch up: The president was sworn in for a second term this month, after a disputed election that many countries didn’t recognize, and Mr. Guaidó says the government is illegitimate. Mr. Maduro dismisses the opposition as “little boys” who are pawns of the Trump administration. Yesterday: Vice President Mike Pence declared Washington’s “unwavering support” for the planned demonstrations. In his latest clash with the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, Gov. Andrew Cuomo opposed a requested fare increase on Tuesday and questioned whether the agency really needed the revenue to make much-needed improvements.  “Tighten your belt. Make the place run better,” said Mr. Cuomo, who has repeatedly complained about the agency’s bureaucracy. A vote on Thursday could determine whether the cost of a MetroCard swipe will go up to $3 in March. In numbers: Experts predict the M.T.A. will have a deficit of nearly $1 billion by 2022. Subway leaders warn they will have to raise fares or cut services unless other revenue sources are found.  The former Soviet republic of Georgia has offered tax breaks, land deals and cheap energy to attract tech-savvy entrepreneurs and the high-powered computers that are needed to mine the cryptocurrency Bitcoin, even though its value has tumbled. Our chief European business correspondent traveled to the capital, Tbilisi, to learn more about a “state-supported dash toward data supremacy.” Los Angeles teachers end strike: Tens of thousands of employees in the nation’s second-largest public school system are set to return to work today after they reached a deal to end a weeklong strike. The agreement includes caps on class sizes, and hiring full-time nurses for every school. The 2020 election: Pete Buttigieg, the 37-year-old mayor of South Bend, Ind., announced today that he was starting a Democratic presidential campaign. A veteran of the war in Afghanistan, Mr. Buttigieg is the first openly gay candidate to join the 2020 presidential race. Chris Brown case: The R&B singer was released without charges after being questioned in Paris over accusations of rape.  Snapshot: Above, Roman Catholic priests heard confessions at a park in Panama City on Tuesday as part of World Youth Day. Hundreds of thousands of people are expected at the five-day event, which Pope Francis will attend. In memoriam: Russell Baker, one of the most celebrated American writers and a two-time Pulitzer Prize winner, died on Monday at 93. His column (including one about a dreaded Christmas fruitcake) appeared in The Times and other newspapers for 36 years. Oscar nominations: Netflix received its first best picture nod for “Roma,” a foreign-language film that tied with “The Favourite” to lead the nominations, at 10 each. Here’s a complete list of the nominees, as well as the snubs and surprises. Baseball Hall of Fame: Mariano Rivera, the relief pitcher who helped the New York Yankees win five World Series, became the first player to be elected unanimously to the Hall of Fame. Serena Williams is out: Williams was one point from victory today when she appeared to injure herself, eventually losing to seventh-seeded Karolina Pliskova in the Australian Open quarterfinals. Here are all the scores. Late-night comedy: Conan O’Brien returned with a new version of his show and a more casual outfit: “This is how I dress in real life — I call my look: ‘hip biology teacher.’” What we’re reading: This essay in The Bitter Southerner. “The Tennessee food writer Jennifer Justus wrote this unexpected story about the grandes dames of Nashville music told through their cookbooks,” writes Kim Severson, our national food correspondent. “It starts with a recipe for ‘Husband’s Delight’ from Tammy Wynette, and ends with the revelation that even recipes from Chet Atkins and Merle Haggard came from Southern women.”  Cook: Harissa, a North African chile paste, turns canned chickpeas into a fast, spicy soup. Watch: Many Oscar-nominated movies are already available to stream, including “Roma” and “Black Panther.” Listen: Our Popcast features a guide to new artists, from British punk-rap to morbid electronic pop. See: “She Persists: A Century of Women Artists in New York,” an installation of works by 44 artists and collectives in the public spaces of Gracie Mansion. Smarter Living: Salary transparency has many benefits, but if you discover you’re being paid less than a colleague, don’t run to tell your boss that. Instead, a negotiations expert suggests starting with something like: “Based on my market research and discussions with people within my network who are in similar roles, an uplift of X percent would reflect my contributions.” And we looked at the next generation of fitness trackers: stretchy, battery-free patches that analyze your sweat for a real-time gauge of your health. World leaders and chief executives  have converged in Davos, Switzerland, for the annual meeting of the World Economic Forum. The global elite come to discuss the world’s problems — and maybe squeeze in some skiing. Long before the forum existed, Davos was linked to Europe’s bourgeoisie as the setting of “The Magic Mountain,” the 1924 novel by Thomas Mann.  We asked Pamela Paul, the editor of the Book Review, what today’s readers should know about the book, which follows a wealthy young German through seven years in a tuberculosis sanitarium just before World War I. “Many people read it as a metaphor for the sickness of Europe on the brink of war,” she answered. “Well-heeled invalids gather indefinitely, for a cure that doesn’t necessarily come — perhaps deliberately. The longer they stay, the greater the owner’s profits. “They spend their days gossiping, pursuing love affairs and having abstract arguments that never reach any decisive resolution.” That’s it for this briefing. See you next time. — Chris Thank youInyoung Kang helped compile today’s briefing, and Eleanor Stanford and James K. Williamson provided our break from the news. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com. P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is about the encounter between high school students and a Native American man in Washington.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Genre for Philip K. Dick and N.K. Jemisin (5 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • The Times first reported from Davos, Switzerland, in 1890 — covering a new railroad that cut travel time from London to only 30 hours. An earlier version of this briefing misstated the percentage increase of single fares that is under consideration by the Metropolitan Transportation Authority in New York City. A base fare rise to $3 would represent an increase of 9 percent, not 4 percent. (Under two proposals the authority’s board has been considering, the increase for a majority of transit system users would be 4 percent.) Chris Stanford is based in London and writes the U.S. version of the Morning Briefing. He also compiles a weekly news quiz. He was previously a producer for the desktop home page and mobile site, helping to present The New York Times’s news report to readers. Before joining The Times in 2013, he was an editor and designer at The Washington Post and other news organizations.  @stanfordc Supported by By Reuters (Reuters) - The largest Democratic field in the modern political era is lining up to seek the party's 2020 presidential nomination - and is expected to keep growing. The diverse group vying to challenge President Donald Trump, the likely Republican nominee, includes six U.S. senators. A record six women are running, as well as black, Hispanic and openly gay candidates who would make history if one of them became the party's nominee. Here are the Democrats who have launched campaigns or are expected to pursue a presidential bid, listed in order of their RealClearPolitics national polling average for those who register in opinion surveys.  (For a graphic, see: tmsnrt.rs/2Ff62ZC) JOE BIDEN The leader in polls of Democratic presidential contenders is not even a candidate yet. But Biden, who served eight years as vice president under former President Barack Obama and 36 years in the U.S. Senate, looks poised to join the 2020 race. At 76, he will be the second oldest candidate in the Democratic nominating contests, after Senator Bernie Sanders. Biden will be a key figure in the Democratic debate over whether a liberal political newcomer or a centrist veteran is needed to win back the White House. Liberal activists criticize his Senate record, including his authorship of the 1994 crime act that led to increased incarceration rates, and his ties to the financial industry, which is prominent in his home state of Delaware. Biden, who relishes his "Middle-Class Joe" nickname and touts his working-class roots, made unsuccessful bids for the nomination in 1988 and 2008. Biden, recently the subject of allegations of unwanted physical contact with women, pledged in a video to be "more mindful" of respecting "personal space," an attempt to tamp down the controversy. BERNIE SANDERS The senator from Vermont lost the Democratic nomination in 2016 to Hillary Clinton but has jumped in for a second try. In the 2020 race, Sanders, 77, will have to fight to stand out in a packed field of liberal progressives touting issues he brought into the Democratic Party mainstream four years ago. His proposals include free tuition at public colleges, a $15 minimum wage and universal healthcare. He benefits from strong name recognition and a robust network of small-dollar donors, helping him to raise $5.9 million during his first day in the contest. Sanders, whose father was a Jewish immigrant from Poland, has shown a more personal side in this campaign, highlighting his struggles while growing up in a working-class family. He also has tried to reach out to black and Hispanic leaders after having trouble winning over minority voters in 2016. KAMALA HARRIS  The first-term U.S. senator from California would make history as the first black woman to gain the nomination. Harris, 54, the daughter of immigrants from Jamaica and India, announced her candidacy on the holiday honoring slain civil rights leader Martin Luther King Jr. She has made a quick impact in a Democratic race that will be heavily influenced by women and minority voters. She raised $1.5 million in the first 24 hours of her campaign and drew record ratings on a CNN televised town hall. She supports a middle-class tax credit, Medicare for All healthcare funding reform, the Green New Deal and the legalization of marijuana. Her track record as San Francisco’s district attorney and California’s attorney general has drawn scrutiny in a Democratic Party that has shifted in recent years on criminal justice issues. BETO O’ROURKE The former three-term Texas congressman jumped into the race on March 14 - and has been jumping onto store countertops ever since to deliver his optimistic message to voters in early primary states. O'Rourke, 46, gained fame last year for his record fundraising and ability to draw crowds ahead of his unexpectedly narrow loss in the U.S. Senate race against Republican incumbent Ted Cruz. O'Rourke announced a $6.1 million fundraising haul for the first 24 hours of his campaign, besting his Democratic opponents. But with progressive policies and diversity at the forefront of the party's nominating battle, O'Rourke will face a challenge as a wealthy white man who is more moderate on several key issues than many of his competitors. ELIZABETH WARREN The 69-year-old senator from Massachusetts is a leader of the party’s liberals and a fierce Wall Street critic who was instrumental in creating the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. She has focused her presidential campaign on her populist economic message, promising to fight what she calls a rigged economic system that favors the wealthy. She also has proposed eliminating the Electoral College, vowed to break up Amazon, Google and Facebook if elected, and sworn off political fundraising events to collect cash for her bid. Warren apologized earlier this year to the Cherokee Nation for taking a DNA test to prove her claims to Native American ancestry, an assertion that has prompted Trump to mockingly refer to her as “Pocahontas." CORY BOOKER Booker, 49, a black U.S. senator from New Jersey and former mayor of Newark, gained national prominence in the fight over Brett Kavanaugh’s Supreme Court nomination. He has made U.S. race relations and racial disparities a focus of his campaign, noting the impact of discrimination on his family. He embraces progressive positions on Medicare coverage for every American, the Green New Deal and other key issues, and touts his style of positivity over attacks. Booker eats a vegan diet and recently confirmed rumors he is dating actress Rosario Dawson. AMY KLOBUCHAR The third-term U.S. senator from Minnesota was the first moderate in the Democratic field vying to challenge Trump. Klobuchar, 58, gained national attention in 2018 when she sparred with Kavanaugh during Senate hearings for his Supreme Court nomination. On the campaign trail, the former prosecutor and corporate attorney supports an alternative to traditional Medicare healthcare funding and is taking a hard stance against rising prescription drug prices. Klobuchar's campaign reported raising more than $1 million in its first 48 hours. Her campaign announcement came amid news reports that staff in her Senate office were asked to do menial tasks, making it difficult to hire high-level campaign strategists.  PETE BUTTIGIEG  The 37-year-old mayor of South Bend, Indiana, is emerging from underdog status as he begins to build momentum with young voters. A Harvard University graduate and Rhodes Scholar at the University of Oxford, he speaks seven languages and served in Afghanistan with the U.S. Navy Reserve. He touts himself as representing a new generation of leadership needed to combat Trump. Buttigieg would be the first openly gay presidential nominee of a major American political party. JULIAN CASTRO The secretary of housing and urban development under President Barack Obama would be the first Hispanic to win a major U.S. party's presidential nomination. Castro, 44, whose grandmother was a Mexican immigrant who immigrated to Texas, has used his family’s personal story to criticize Trump's border policies. Castro advocates for a universal pre-kindergarten program, supports Medicare for All and cites his experience to push for affordable housing. He announced his bid in his hometown of San Antonio, where he once served as mayor and a city councilman. His twin brother, Joaquin Castro, is a Democratic congressman from Texas. KIRSTEN GILLIBRAND  Gillibrand, known as a moderate when she served as a congresswoman from upstate New York, has refashioned herself into a staunch progressive, calling for strict gun laws and supporting the Green New Deal. The senator for New York, who is 52, has led efforts to address sexual assault in the military and on college campuses, and pushed for Congress to improve its own handling of sexual misconduct allegations. On the campaign trail, she has made fiery denunciations of Trump. She released her tax returns for the years 2007 through 2018, offering the most comprehensive look to date at the finances of a 2020 White House candidate, and has called on her rivals to do the same.  JAY INSLEE  The Washington state governor has made fighting climate change the central issue of his campaign. As governor, Inslee, 68, has moved to put a moratorium on capital punishment and fully implement the Affordable Care Act, commonly known as Obamacare, and accompanying expansion of Medicaid health coverage for the poor. He has not settled on a position on Medicare for All but does support the Green New Deal backed by progressives. Inslee spent 15 years in Congress before being elected governor in 2012. JOHN HICKENLOOPER  The 67-year-old former Colorado governor has positioned himself as a centrist and an experienced officeholder with business experience. He is the only Democratic presidential candidate so far to oppose the Green New Deal plan to tackle climate change, saying it would give the government too much power in investment decisions. During his two terms in office, Colorado’s economy soared and the Western state expanded healthcare, passed a gun control law and legalized marijuana. The former geologist and brewpub owner is among the many candidates who have refused to take corporate money. He previously served as mayor of Denver. JOHN DELANEY The former U.S. representative from Maryland became the first Democrat to enter the 2020 race, declaring his candidacy in July 2017. Delaney, 55, plans to focus on advancing only bipartisan bills during the first 100 days of his presidency if elected. He is also pushing for a universal healthcare system, raising the federal minimum wage and passing gun safety legislation.  TULSI GABBARD  The Samoan-American congresswoman from Hawaii and Iraq war veteran is the first Hindu to serve in the U.S. House of Representatives. After working for her father’s anti-gay advocacy group and drafting relevant legislation, she was forced to apologize for her past views on same-sex marriage. Gabbard, 37, has been against U.S. intervention in Syria and slammed Trump for standing by Saudi Arabia after the murder of journalist Jamal Khashoggi. She endorsed Sanders during his 2016 presidential campaign.  TIM RYAN The moderate nine-term congressman from a working-class district in the battleground state of Ohio has touted his appeal to the blue-collar voters who fled to Trump in 2016. He says Trump has turned his back on those voters and failed to live up his promise to revitalize the manufacturing industry. Ryan, 45, pledges to create jobs in new technologies and focus on public education and access to affordable healthcare. He gained national attention when he tried to unseat Nancy Pelosi as the House Democratic leader in 2016, arguing it was time for new leadership. A former college football player, he also has written books on meditation and healthy eating. ERIC SWALWELL The third-term congressman from a California district south of San Francisco says tackling student debt and gun violence are among the reasons he jumped into the race. Swalwell, 38, cites his work on the House Intelligence Committee and his founding of Future Forum, a group of more than 25 Democratic lawmakers that visits universities and community colleges to discuss issues important to millennial voters like student loan debt and climate change, among the reasons he would be a qualified White House candidate. In his first House campaign, Swalwell defeated a Democratic incumbent who had been in office since 1973, seven years before Swalwell was born.  ANDREW YANG The entrepreneur and former tech executive is focusing his campaign on an ambitious universal income plan. Yang, 44, wants to guarantee all American citizens between the ages of 18 and 64 a $1,000 check every month. The son of immigrants from Taiwan, Yang also is pushing for Medicare for All and proposing a new form of capitalism that is “human-centered.” He lives in New York. MARIANNE WILLIAMSON The 66-year-old New York Times best-selling author, motivational speaker and Texas native believes her spirituality-focused campaign can heal America. A 1992 interview on Oprah Winfrey’s show propelled her to make a name for herself as a “spiritual guide” for Hollywood and a self-help expert. She is calling for $100 billion in reparations for slavery over 10 years, gun control, education reform and equal rights for lesbian and gay communities. In 2014, she made an unsuccessful bid for a House seat in California as an independent. WAYNE MESSAM Messam, 44, defeated a 16-year incumbent in 2015 to become the first black mayor of in the Miami suburb of Miramar. He was re-elected in March. The son of Jamaican immigrants, he played on Florida State University's 1993 national championship team, and then started a construction business with his wife. He has pledged to focus on reducing gun violence, mitigating climate change and reducing student loan debt and the cost of healthcare.  (Additional reporting by John Whitesides; Editing by Colleen Jenkins, Jonathan Oatis and Peter Cooney)

Supported by By Reuters (Reuters) - The largest Democratic field in the modern political era is lining up to seek the party's 2020 presidential nomination - and is expected to keep growing. The diverse group vying to challenge President Donald Trump, the likely Republican nominee, includes six U.S. senators. A record six women are running, as well as black, Hispanic and openly gay candidates who would make history if one of them became the party's nominee. Here are the Democrats who have launched campaigns or are expected to pursue a presidential bid, listed in order of their RealClearPolitics national polling average for those who register in opinion surveys.  (For a graphic, see: tmsnrt.rs/2Ff62ZC) JOE BIDEN The leader in polls of Democratic presidential contenders is not even a candidate yet. But Biden, who served eight years as vice president under former President Barack Obama and 36 years in the U.S. Senate, looks poised to join the 2020 race. At 76, he will be the second oldest candidate in the Democratic nominating contests, after Senator Bernie Sanders. Biden will be a key figure in the Democratic debate over whether a liberal political newcomer or a centrist veteran is needed to win back the White House. Liberal activists criticize his Senate record, including his authorship of the 1994 crime act that led to increased incarceration rates, and his ties to the financial industry, which is prominent in his home state of Delaware. Biden, who relishes his "Middle-Class Joe" nickname and touts his working-class roots, made unsuccessful bids for the nomination in 1988 and 2008. Biden, recently the subject of allegations of unwanted physical contact with women, pledged in a video to be "more mindful" of respecting "personal space," an attempt to tamp down the controversy. BERNIE SANDERS The senator from Vermont lost the Democratic nomination in 2016 to Hillary Clinton but has jumped in for a second try. In the 2020 race, Sanders, 77, will have to fight to stand out in a packed field of liberal progressives touting issues he brought into the Democratic Party mainstream four years ago. His proposals include free tuition at public colleges, a $15 minimum wage and universal healthcare. He benefits from strong name recognition and a robust network of small-dollar donors, helping him to raise $5.9 million during his first day in the contest. Sanders, whose father was a Jewish immigrant from Poland, has shown a more personal side in this campaign, highlighting his struggles while growing up in a working-class family. He also has tried to reach out to black and Hispanic leaders after having trouble winning over minority voters in 2016. KAMALA HARRIS  The first-term U.S. senator from California would make history as the first black woman to gain the nomination. Harris, 54, the daughter of immigrants from Jamaica and India, announced her candidacy on the holiday honoring slain civil rights leader Martin Luther King Jr. She has made a quick impact in a Democratic race that will be heavily influenced by women and minority voters. She raised $1.5 million in the first 24 hours of her campaign and drew record ratings on a CNN televised town hall. She supports a middle-class tax credit, Medicare for All healthcare funding reform, the Green New Deal and the legalization of marijuana. Her track record as San Francisco’s district attorney and California’s attorney general has drawn scrutiny in a Democratic Party that has shifted in recent years on criminal justice issues. BETO O’ROURKE The former three-term Texas congressman jumped into the race on March 14 - and has been jumping onto store countertops ever since to deliver his optimistic message to voters in early primary states. O'Rourke, 46, gained fame last year for his record fundraising and ability to draw crowds ahead of his unexpectedly narrow loss in the U.S. Senate race against Republican incumbent Ted Cruz. O'Rourke announced a $6.1 million fundraising haul for the first 24 hours of his campaign, besting his Democratic opponents. But with progressive policies and diversity at the forefront of the party's nominating battle, O'Rourke will face a challenge as a wealthy white man who is more moderate on several key issues than many of his competitors. ELIZABETH WARREN The 69-year-old senator from Massachusetts is a leader of the party’s liberals and a fierce Wall Street critic who was instrumental in creating the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. She has focused her presidential campaign on her populist economic message, promising to fight what she calls a rigged economic system that favors the wealthy. She also has proposed eliminating the Electoral College, vowed to break up Amazon, Google and Facebook if elected, and sworn off political fundraising events to collect cash for her bid. Warren apologized earlier this year to the Cherokee Nation for taking a DNA test to prove her claims to Native American ancestry, an assertion that has prompted Trump to mockingly refer to her as “Pocahontas." CORY BOOKER Booker, 49, a black U.S. senator from New Jersey and former mayor of Newark, gained national prominence in the fight over Brett Kavanaugh’s Supreme Court nomination. He has made U.S. race relations and racial disparities a focus of his campaign, noting the impact of discrimination on his family. He embraces progressive positions on Medicare coverage for every American, the Green New Deal and other key issues, and touts his style of positivity over attacks. Booker eats a vegan diet and recently confirmed rumors he is dating actress Rosario Dawson. AMY KLOBUCHAR The third-term U.S. senator from Minnesota was the first moderate in the Democratic field vying to challenge Trump. Klobuchar, 58, gained national attention in 2018 when she sparred with Kavanaugh during Senate hearings for his Supreme Court nomination. On the campaign trail, the former prosecutor and corporate attorney supports an alternative to traditional Medicare healthcare funding and is taking a hard stance against rising prescription drug prices. Klobuchar's campaign reported raising more than $1 million in its first 48 hours. Her campaign announcement came amid news reports that staff in her Senate office were asked to do menial tasks, making it difficult to hire high-level campaign strategists.  PETE BUTTIGIEG  The 37-year-old mayor of South Bend, Indiana, is emerging from underdog status as he begins to build momentum with young voters. A Harvard University graduate and Rhodes Scholar at the University of Oxford, he speaks seven languages and served in Afghanistan with the U.S. Navy Reserve. He touts himself as representing a new generation of leadership needed to combat Trump. Buttigieg would be the first openly gay presidential nominee of a major American political party. JULIAN CASTRO The secretary of housing and urban development under President Barack Obama would be the first Hispanic to win a major U.S. party's presidential nomination. Castro, 44, whose grandmother was a Mexican immigrant who immigrated to Texas, has used his family’s personal story to criticize Trump's border policies. Castro advocates for a universal pre-kindergarten program, supports Medicare for All and cites his experience to push for affordable housing. He announced his bid in his hometown of San Antonio, where he once served as mayor and a city councilman. His twin brother, Joaquin Castro, is a Democratic congressman from Texas. KIRSTEN GILLIBRAND  Gillibrand, known as a moderate when she served as a congresswoman from upstate New York, has refashioned herself into a staunch progressive, calling for strict gun laws and supporting the Green New Deal. The senator for New York, who is 52, has led efforts to address sexual assault in the military and on college campuses, and pushed for Congress to improve its own handling of sexual misconduct allegations. On the campaign trail, she has made fiery denunciations of Trump. She released her tax returns for the years 2007 through 2018, offering the most comprehensive look to date at the finances of a 2020 White House candidate, and has called on her rivals to do the same.  JAY INSLEE  The Washington state governor has made fighting climate change the central issue of his campaign. As governor, Inslee, 68, has moved to put a moratorium on capital punishment and fully implement the Affordable Care Act, commonly known as Obamacare, and accompanying expansion of Medicaid health coverage for the poor. He has not settled on a position on Medicare for All but does support the Green New Deal backed by progressives. Inslee spent 15 years in Congress before being elected governor in 2012. JOHN HICKENLOOPER  The 67-year-old former Colorado governor has positioned himself as a centrist and an experienced officeholder with business experience. He is the only Democratic presidential candidate so far to oppose the Green New Deal plan to tackle climate change, saying it would give the government too much power in investment decisions. During his two terms in office, Colorado’s economy soared and the Western state expanded healthcare, passed a gun control law and legalized marijuana. The former geologist and brewpub owner is among the many candidates who have refused to take corporate money. He previously served as mayor of Denver. JOHN DELANEY The former U.S. representative from Maryland became the first Democrat to enter the 2020 race, declaring his candidacy in July 2017. Delaney, 55, plans to focus on advancing only bipartisan bills during the first 100 days of his presidency if elected. He is also pushing for a universal healthcare system, raising the federal minimum wage and passing gun safety legislation.  TULSI GABBARD  The Samoan-American congresswoman from Hawaii and Iraq war veteran is the first Hindu to serve in the U.S. House of Representatives. After working for her father’s anti-gay advocacy group and drafting relevant legislation, she was forced to apologize for her past views on same-sex marriage. Gabbard, 37, has been against U.S. intervention in Syria and slammed Trump for standing by Saudi Arabia after the murder of journalist Jamal Khashoggi. She endorsed Sanders during his 2016 presidential campaign.  TIM RYAN The moderate nine-term congressman from a working-class district in the battleground state of Ohio has touted his appeal to the blue-collar voters who fled to Trump in 2016. He says Trump has turned his back on those voters and failed to live up his promise to revitalize the manufacturing industry. Ryan, 45, pledges to create jobs in new technologies and focus on public education and access to affordable healthcare. He gained national attention when he tried to unseat Nancy Pelosi as the House Democratic leader in 2016, arguing it was time for new leadership. A former college football player, he also has written books on meditation and healthy eating. ERIC SWALWELL The third-term congressman from a California district south of San Francisco says tackling student debt and gun violence are among the reasons he jumped into the race. Swalwell, 38, cites his work on the House Intelligence Committee and his founding of Future Forum, a group of more than 25 Democratic lawmakers that visits universities and community colleges to discuss issues important to millennial voters like student loan debt and climate change, among the reasons he would be a qualified White House candidate. In his first House campaign, Swalwell defeated a Democratic incumbent who had been in office since 1973, seven years before Swalwell was born.  ANDREW YANG The entrepreneur and former tech executive is focusing his campaign on an ambitious universal income plan. Yang, 44, wants to guarantee all American citizens between the ages of 18 and 64 a $1,000 check every month. The son of immigrants from Taiwan, Yang also is pushing for Medicare for All and proposing a new form of capitalism that is “human-centered.” He lives in New York. MARIANNE WILLIAMSON The 66-year-old New York Times best-selling author, motivational speaker and Texas native believes her spirituality-focused campaign can heal America. A 1992 interview on Oprah Winfrey’s show propelled her to make a name for herself as a “spiritual guide” for Hollywood and a self-help expert. She is calling for $100 billion in reparations for slavery over 10 years, gun control, education reform and equal rights for lesbian and gay communities. In 2014, she made an unsuccessful bid for a House seat in California as an independent. WAYNE MESSAM Messam, 44, defeated a 16-year incumbent in 2015 to become the first black mayor of in the Miami suburb of Miramar. He was re-elected in March. The son of Jamaican immigrants, he played on Florida State University's 1993 national championship team, and then started a construction business with his wife. He has pledged to focus on reducing gun violence, mitigating climate change and reducing student loan debt and the cost of healthcare.  (Additional reporting by John Whitesides; Editing by Colleen Jenkins, Jonathan Oatis and Peter Cooney)Supported by By Thomas Kaplan WASHINGTON — Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont raised $18.2 million over the first six weeks of his presidential bid, his campaign announced Tuesday, a display of financial strength that cements his status as one of the top fund-raisers in the sprawling Democratic field. Mr. Sanders received almost 900,000 contributions from 525,000 individual donors, his campaign manager, Faiz Shakir, said. The average donation was $20, compared with $27 in Mr. Sanders’s 2016 presidential campaign, he said. Mr. Shakir said that a majority of Mr. Sanders’s donors were under the age of 39, and that 20 percent of all donors had not contributed to Mr. Sanders’s previous campaigns. He said that 88 percent of the total money raised came from donors giving $200 or less. Mr. Sanders’s announcement of his fund-raising for the first quarter of the year had been highly anticipated, as he was expected to reveal a sizable total. Presidential candidates must report their first-quarter fund-raising to the Federal Election Commission by April 15, but they can choose to disclose information before that deadline. The announcement on Tuesday offered a chance for Mr. Sanders’s team to showcase the breadth of support for his campaign. [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] His total for the quarter is the largest announced by a Democratic candidate so far, though most campaigns have not made their numbers public. Senator Kamala Harris of California raised $12 million in the first quarter, her campaign said on Monday. Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Ind., said on Monday that he had raised more than $7 million. Both candidates entered the race in January, several weeks before Mr. Sanders announced his candidacy. Andrew Yang, a New York businessman who is running on a platform that the United States should provide a universal basic income, said Tuesday that he had raised more than $1.7 million from over 80,000 donors — noteworthy figures for a political newcomer. His average donation was $17.92, he said, an amount even smaller than Mr. Sanders’s. Former Representative Beto O’Rourke of Texas, who entered the race in March and has been a prolific online fund-raiser, has yet to announce his haul for the quarter. The fund-raising totals are important beyond the symbolic value they carry for candidates who can point to large numbers of supporters. The Iowa caucuses are still 10 months away, meaning that Democratic candidates will need to be able to fund their campaigns for a long stretch of time just to make it to the first nominating contest. [Who’s in? Who’s out? Keep up with the 2020 field with our candidate tracker.] “There is zero question now that Bernie will be able to build a very strong and formidable campaign operation,” said Mo Elleithee, who was a spokesman for Hillary Clinton’s 2008 presidential campaign and is now the executive director of Georgetown University’s Institute of Politics and Public Service. But Mr. Elleithee said it remained to be seen whether Mr. Sanders’s backers would stick with him as time went on. “What will be interesting is: Is this sustainable as other candidates get better known?” he said. Mr. Sanders posted a bigger opening number than he did in the last presidential race, when he raised about $14 million in the quarter that covered April through June of 2015. Mr. Shakir said it took 146 days, or about 21 weeks, for Mr. Sanders to reach 900,000 donations in that campaign. But the amount raised by Mr. Sanders this quarter was not off the charts for a Democratic presidential hopeful. Mrs. Clinton raised about $47 million in her first quarter as a candidate in the 2016 campaign, though unlike Mr. Sanders, she relied heavily on big donations. Mr. Sanders began the 2020 race with the benefit of an enormous donor base that he developed in his primary campaign against Mrs. Clinton, when he raised well over $200 million. After jumping into the 2020 race on Feb. 19, he quickly reminded his rivals of his large following, collecting $5.9 million in the first 24 hours and a total of $10 million within a week. (Only Mr. O’Rourke disclosed a bigger 24-hour haul, with $6.1 million.) The Sanders campaign had set a goal of receiving one million donations by the end of the first quarter. The campaign fell short of that goal, but Mr. Shakir expressed no regret about having aimed for it. “It was important to us to set an ambitious goal,” he said. Mr. Sanders’s financial resources go beyond the money he has received since entering the presidential race. Like others running for president who have previously run for federal office, he can make use of funds that he had raised in earlier campaigns. He began the 2020 race with $14 million available for his use, Mr. Shakir said. Mr. Shakir said the new fund-raising total showed that the movement Mr. Sanders began in his 2016 campaign was still gaining steam. He noted that there had been questions from pundits about whether that would be the case: “Is this movement sustaining? Is it still there?” “The answer is a resounding yes,” he said. “It is still strong and it is still growing.” Follow Thomas Kaplan on Twitter: @thomaskaplan.    

Supported by By Thomas Kaplan WASHINGTON — Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont raised $18.2 million over the first six weeks of his presidential bid, his campaign announced Tuesday, a display of financial strength that cements his status as one of the top fund-raisers in the sprawling Democratic field. Mr. Sanders received almost 900,000 contributions from 525,000 individual donors, his campaign manager, Faiz Shakir, said. The average donation was $20, compared with $27 in Mr. Sanders’s 2016 presidential campaign, he said. Mr. Shakir said that a majority of Mr. Sanders’s donors were under the age of 39, and that 20 percent of all donors had not contributed to Mr. Sanders’s previous campaigns. He said that 88 percent of the total money raised came from donors giving $200 or less. Mr. Sanders’s announcement of his fund-raising for the first quarter of the year had been highly anticipated, as he was expected to reveal a sizable total. Presidential candidates must report their first-quarter fund-raising to the Federal Election Commission by April 15, but they can choose to disclose information before that deadline. The announcement on Tuesday offered a chance for Mr. Sanders’s team to showcase the breadth of support for his campaign. [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] His total for the quarter is the largest announced by a Democratic candidate so far, though most campaigns have not made their numbers public. Senator Kamala Harris of California raised $12 million in the first quarter, her campaign said on Monday. Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Ind., said on Monday that he had raised more than $7 million. Both candidates entered the race in January, several weeks before Mr. Sanders announced his candidacy. Andrew Yang, a New York businessman who is running on a platform that the United States should provide a universal basic income, said Tuesday that he had raised more than $1.7 million from over 80,000 donors — noteworthy figures for a political newcomer. His average donation was $17.92, he said, an amount even smaller than Mr. Sanders’s. Former Representative Beto O’Rourke of Texas, who entered the race in March and has been a prolific online fund-raiser, has yet to announce his haul for the quarter. The fund-raising totals are important beyond the symbolic value they carry for candidates who can point to large numbers of supporters. The Iowa caucuses are still 10 months away, meaning that Democratic candidates will need to be able to fund their campaigns for a long stretch of time just to make it to the first nominating contest. [Who’s in? Who’s out? Keep up with the 2020 field with our candidate tracker.] “There is zero question now that Bernie will be able to build a very strong and formidable campaign operation,” said Mo Elleithee, who was a spokesman for Hillary Clinton’s 2008 presidential campaign and is now the executive director of Georgetown University’s Institute of Politics and Public Service. But Mr. Elleithee said it remained to be seen whether Mr. Sanders’s backers would stick with him as time went on. “What will be interesting is: Is this sustainable as other candidates get better known?” he said. Mr. Sanders posted a bigger opening number than he did in the last presidential race, when he raised about $14 million in the quarter that covered April through June of 2015. Mr. Shakir said it took 146 days, or about 21 weeks, for Mr. Sanders to reach 900,000 donations in that campaign. But the amount raised by Mr. Sanders this quarter was not off the charts for a Democratic presidential hopeful. Mrs. Clinton raised about $47 million in her first quarter as a candidate in the 2016 campaign, though unlike Mr. Sanders, she relied heavily on big donations. Mr. Sanders began the 2020 race with the benefit of an enormous donor base that he developed in his primary campaign against Mrs. Clinton, when he raised well over $200 million. After jumping into the 2020 race on Feb. 19, he quickly reminded his rivals of his large following, collecting $5.9 million in the first 24 hours and a total of $10 million within a week. (Only Mr. O’Rourke disclosed a bigger 24-hour haul, with $6.1 million.) The Sanders campaign had set a goal of receiving one million donations by the end of the first quarter. The campaign fell short of that goal, but Mr. Shakir expressed no regret about having aimed for it. “It was important to us to set an ambitious goal,” he said. Mr. Sanders’s financial resources go beyond the money he has received since entering the presidential race. Like others running for president who have previously run for federal office, he can make use of funds that he had raised in earlier campaigns. He began the 2020 race with $14 million available for his use, Mr. Shakir said. Mr. Shakir said the new fund-raising total showed that the movement Mr. Sanders began in his 2016 campaign was still gaining steam. He noted that there had been questions from pundits about whether that would be the case: “Is this movement sustaining? Is it still there?” “The answer is a resounding yes,” he said. “It is still strong and it is still growing.” Follow Thomas Kaplan on Twitter: @thomaskaplan.    Supported by By Astead W. Herndon and Jonathan Martin MEMPHIS — On a Sunday afternoon earlier this month, Senator Elizabeth Warren began a swing through the South by proclaiming that she was running “a different type of campaign” — one that did not include high-dollar fund-raisers but was entirely reliant on grass-roots contributions. “If you think that’s a good idea, go to ElizabethWarren.com,” she told about 500 people at a town hall-style event in Memphis, adding: “Pitch in five bucks, do whatever you can.” The next morning she woke up to some news about a surge in small-dollar contributions, but it wasn’t for her: Former Representative Beto O’Rourke had raised $6.1 million in the first 24 hours of his candidacy. It was another blow to a candidate who has spent the first months of the Democratic presidential primary campaign seeking to distinguish herself from the field: She was the first major candidate to announce; she has set the pace on policy, unveiling a series of far-reaching proposals on child care, taxes and the role of large technology companies; and she defied the pleas of her longtime finance director and declared that she would stop pursuing big donations altogether, leading to his resignation. But as the first fund-raising deadline arrives at midnight on Sunday, Ms. Warren — who last year was widely considered a would-be front-runner — finds herself in a political vise. Her rivals on either ideological flank will raise substantially more money in the first quarter than she does, and her focus on policy has not yet translated in the polls. Ms. Warren’s early troubles reflect the broader challenges confronting the vast Democratic field, all vying for money and attention as they seek to dethrone President Trump. Harvesting online donations does not come easily to noncelebrity candidates, and the party’s longstanding fascination with youthful charisma — along with its current, Trump-driven fixation on electability — can outweigh qualities like experience or policy expertise. [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join the conversation around the 2020 presidential race.] The decision of Senator Bernie Sanders, Ms. Warren’s longtime friend and fellow populist, to run again has cut into her money and her potential share of the vote on the left. And Democrats like Mr. O’Rourke, Senator Kamala Harris and Mayor Pete Buttigieg of South Bend, Ind., have offered a party eager to find fresh faces a handful from which to choose. “If Warren says, ‘I can’t raise enough money, so my way to win is through an aggressive field operation because I have fired-up volunteers,’ well, Bernie and Beto can say, ‘O.K., well, we can do both,’” said Rufus Gifford, the finance director in former President Barack Obama’s re-election campaign. Ms. Warren has also faced persistent questions about her electability from Democratic voters desperate to oust President Trump. These concerns grew when she released the results of a DNA test last year showing she had distant Native American ancestry, and was immediately ridiculed by Mr. Trump. Her staff is sensitive enough about the “but can she win” concerns that last week it issued a lengthy campaign memo, in the guise of a fund-raising email, detailing her platform and résumé while offering a reminder that she is the only candidate who in recent years has defeated a statewide Republican incumbent. In an interview Thursday at the Washington office of one her consultants, Ms. Warren began making her electability case more explicit, invoking her seven-and-a-half-point defeat of Scott Brown seven years ago. “It’s what people said in Massachusetts in 2012,” she recalled about a race in which she also lagged in early polls, adding triumphantly, “I’ve started out down and I’ve come back and fought and fought and fought until, I didn’t squeak by, I beat him and beat him hard.” Ms. Warren has good reason to remain optimistic — or at least not to panic just yet. Even if she struggles to raise money in the early going, she can finance her ambitious campaign thanks to the $10 million aides say she has transferred from her Senate campaign account. And the contours of the 2020 race are nothing if not uncertain. Ms. Warren does not face the sort of unease within factions of the party that Mr. Sanders and former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. do, and presidential history is littered with examples of candidates who surged late when other contenders unraveled. [Keep up with the 2020 field with our candidate tracker.] However, the history of Democratic primaries is also filled with would-be reformers who fell short because they chiefly appealed to white voters — and that is who dominates Ms. Warren’s audiences, even in a heavily black city like Memphis. “It was noticeable,” said Jennings Bernard, a longtime pastor and political activist, who attended Ms. Warren’s event here. “The concerns of the people in this audience are not the concerns of this community.” In the interview, Ms. Warren offered little explanation for why her policy-filled, 43-stops-and-counting campaign has not inspired a groundswell of small-donor support or gotten her more traction in early polling. “Good ideas are sustaining over time,” she said hopefully. While she is an unmistakably fierce competitor, Ms. Warren is most animated discussing her progressive policy vision. In separate interviews, two of her friends said without prompting that she did not crave the presidency as some other candidates do and would be content if her agenda prevailed but she lost the nomination. Asked if she would be happy with such an outcome, Ms. Warren answered quickly, “I’d be a lot happier than I would be if none of those ideas made it into law,” before returning to safer ground by arguing that “it’s going to take somebody fighting for those changes.” [Ms. Warren said “Joe Biden needs to give ananswer’’ to allegations that he touched and kissed a former Nevada assemblywoman.] While she betrayed no irritation about Mr. Sanders’s decision to run again, or the media attention and money that less-experienced candidates like Mr. O’Rourke and Mr. Buttigieg have drawn — “it’s 11 months out,” she noted, referring to the first primary voting — some of her admirers are more forthcoming. “It’s a little frustrating to see some candidates coming in — whether Beto or whoever — and start getting a lot of attention when they do not have the same résumé of other candidates,” said Kathy Sullivan, a former New Hampshire Democratic chairwoman who has not yet endorsed in the race. Making clear that her exasperation was on behalf of some of the female candidates, Ms. Sullivan added, “But there’s nothing new about that, we’ve always had to do it backward and in heels.” Other Democrats worry about what they describe as the political version of post-traumatic stress disorder following Hillary Clinton’s stunning loss. Questions of viability, party officials say, have become overwhelming to the point that activists are uncertain about following their instincts out of fear they will nominate someone who will lose to Mr. Trump. “We’re so traumatized by 2016 that we’re afraid to trust our hearts and that’s turning us all into pundits,” said Adam Jentleson, a longtime Senate Democratic aide who supports Ms. Warren. “Overthinking and voting for a candidate we like less but who we think other people will like more is the path to ending up with a candidate no one likes very much.” Mr. Trump, who has long relished taunting Ms. Warren with the “Pocahontas” slur, has already declared victory. In an interview on Fox News last week, Mr. Trump said, “I hit her too hard, too early and now it looks like she’s finished.” Part of Ms. Warren’s challenge owes to timing — she is not the new candidate on the scene the way she would have been four years ago, when progressives lobbied for her to challenge Mrs. Clinton. “There were artificially high expectations early on because there was so much interest in her in 2016,” said Jennifer Palmieri, a top aide to Mrs. Clinton in the last race. “Everybody loves you when you’re the one who’s not in the race, and once you get in you’re a mortal and have to slog it out. That doesn’t mean you can’t come back and win — it’s just a different type of race.”  Ms. Warren’s most immediate challenge, though, may be money. She raised only $299,000 in the first day of her candidacy, far below the $5.9 million and $6.1 million Mr. Sanders and Mr. O’Rourke brought in for the same period and also less than Ms. Harris. In emails to supporters, asking for as little as $3, her campaign flatly says her rivals will post “fund-raising figures we won’t be able to match.” And after demonstrating little capacity to raise cash online, Ms. Warren effectively doubled down on small-dollar contributions, announcing last month that she would no longer hold big-money fund-raisers or seek wealthy donors to bundle hundreds of thousands of dollars in checks. She cast it as a decision long in the making that will offer her more time with voters. In truth, she made the choice only after a robust debate inside her campaign that led to the resignation of her finance director, Michael Pratt, who strenuously objected to the idea. At a Valentine’s Day meeting at Ms. Warren’s Washington condominium that began with a heart-shaped cake but soon grew heated, Mr. Pratt noted that campaigns often collapse when they run out of money and pleaded with her not to cut off a significant cash stream, according to Democrats briefed on the conversation. He pointed out that winning over wealthy fund-raisers across the country helped build networks that could translate into political support, not just checks. But Mr. Pratt lost the argument to two of Ms. Warren’s closest advisers, Dan Geldon and Joe Rospars, who made the case about standing apart from the field and freeing up her schedule. Mr. Pratt is not the only veteran adviser absent from this campaign. Among the others who are not involved are Mindy Myers, who ran the winning Senate race against Mr. Brown in 2012 and became chief of staff; the pollster Tom Kiley; and two ad makers, Mandy Grunwald and Marla Romash. (Mr. Kiley retired and Ms. Grunwald is staying out of Ms. Warren’s presidential campaign entirely because she has another client in the race, Senator Amy Klobuchar). Ms. Warren chose not to air the ads Ms. Grunwald and Ms. Romash made for her Senate re-election last year, determining that she was better off husbanding her resources than trying to establish herself with New Hampshire voters who live in the Boston media market. That saved her much of the cash she has since transferred to her presidential campaign, but it has also left her lagging in early New Hampshire polls. Those polls may not mean much if her fund-raising gamble pays off and she can emerge later this year, after a series of nationally televised debates and dozens more events like the one in Memphis. Wilnelia Rivera, a Boston political strategist who helped orchestrate Representative Ayanna Pressley’s primary victory in 2018, said that while a grass-roots strategy was often derided, she believed Ms. Warren could alter the way presidential campaigns are run if she becomes the nominee. “They’re up to something,” Ms. Rivera said of Ms. Warren’s campaign. “What that is? I have no idea. But we’re paying a lot of attention. Because she’s doing something that’s innovative.”    

Supported by By Astead W. Herndon and Jonathan Martin MEMPHIS — On a Sunday afternoon earlier this month, Senator Elizabeth Warren began a swing through the South by proclaiming that she was running “a different type of campaign” — one that did not include high-dollar fund-raisers but was entirely reliant on grass-roots contributions. “If you think that’s a good idea, go to ElizabethWarren.com,” she told about 500 people at a town hall-style event in Memphis, adding: “Pitch in five bucks, do whatever you can.” The next morning she woke up to some news about a surge in small-dollar contributions, but it wasn’t for her: Former Representative Beto O’Rourke had raised $6.1 million in the first 24 hours of his candidacy. It was another blow to a candidate who has spent the first months of the Democratic presidential primary campaign seeking to distinguish herself from the field: She was the first major candidate to announce; she has set the pace on policy, unveiling a series of far-reaching proposals on child care, taxes and the role of large technology companies; and she defied the pleas of her longtime finance director and declared that she would stop pursuing big donations altogether, leading to his resignation. But as the first fund-raising deadline arrives at midnight on Sunday, Ms. Warren — who last year was widely considered a would-be front-runner — finds herself in a political vise. Her rivals on either ideological flank will raise substantially more money in the first quarter than she does, and her focus on policy has not yet translated in the polls. Ms. Warren’s early troubles reflect the broader challenges confronting the vast Democratic field, all vying for money and attention as they seek to dethrone President Trump. Harvesting online donations does not come easily to noncelebrity candidates, and the party’s longstanding fascination with youthful charisma — along with its current, Trump-driven fixation on electability — can outweigh qualities like experience or policy expertise. [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join the conversation around the 2020 presidential race.] The decision of Senator Bernie Sanders, Ms. Warren’s longtime friend and fellow populist, to run again has cut into her money and her potential share of the vote on the left. And Democrats like Mr. O’Rourke, Senator Kamala Harris and Mayor Pete Buttigieg of South Bend, Ind., have offered a party eager to find fresh faces a handful from which to choose. “If Warren says, ‘I can’t raise enough money, so my way to win is through an aggressive field operation because I have fired-up volunteers,’ well, Bernie and Beto can say, ‘O.K., well, we can do both,’” said Rufus Gifford, the finance director in former President Barack Obama’s re-election campaign. Ms. Warren has also faced persistent questions about her electability from Democratic voters desperate to oust President Trump. These concerns grew when she released the results of a DNA test last year showing she had distant Native American ancestry, and was immediately ridiculed by Mr. Trump. Her staff is sensitive enough about the “but can she win” concerns that last week it issued a lengthy campaign memo, in the guise of a fund-raising email, detailing her platform and résumé while offering a reminder that she is the only candidate who in recent years has defeated a statewide Republican incumbent. In an interview Thursday at the Washington office of one her consultants, Ms. Warren began making her electability case more explicit, invoking her seven-and-a-half-point defeat of Scott Brown seven years ago. “It’s what people said in Massachusetts in 2012,” she recalled about a race in which she also lagged in early polls, adding triumphantly, “I’ve started out down and I’ve come back and fought and fought and fought until, I didn’t squeak by, I beat him and beat him hard.” Ms. Warren has good reason to remain optimistic — or at least not to panic just yet. Even if she struggles to raise money in the early going, she can finance her ambitious campaign thanks to the $10 million aides say she has transferred from her Senate campaign account. And the contours of the 2020 race are nothing if not uncertain. Ms. Warren does not face the sort of unease within factions of the party that Mr. Sanders and former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. do, and presidential history is littered with examples of candidates who surged late when other contenders unraveled. [Keep up with the 2020 field with our candidate tracker.] However, the history of Democratic primaries is also filled with would-be reformers who fell short because they chiefly appealed to white voters — and that is who dominates Ms. Warren’s audiences, even in a heavily black city like Memphis. “It was noticeable,” said Jennings Bernard, a longtime pastor and political activist, who attended Ms. Warren’s event here. “The concerns of the people in this audience are not the concerns of this community.” In the interview, Ms. Warren offered little explanation for why her policy-filled, 43-stops-and-counting campaign has not inspired a groundswell of small-donor support or gotten her more traction in early polling. “Good ideas are sustaining over time,” she said hopefully. While she is an unmistakably fierce competitor, Ms. Warren is most animated discussing her progressive policy vision. In separate interviews, two of her friends said without prompting that she did not crave the presidency as some other candidates do and would be content if her agenda prevailed but she lost the nomination. Asked if she would be happy with such an outcome, Ms. Warren answered quickly, “I’d be a lot happier than I would be if none of those ideas made it into law,” before returning to safer ground by arguing that “it’s going to take somebody fighting for those changes.” [Ms. Warren said “Joe Biden needs to give ananswer’’ to allegations that he touched and kissed a former Nevada assemblywoman.] While she betrayed no irritation about Mr. Sanders’s decision to run again, or the media attention and money that less-experienced candidates like Mr. O’Rourke and Mr. Buttigieg have drawn — “it’s 11 months out,” she noted, referring to the first primary voting — some of her admirers are more forthcoming. “It’s a little frustrating to see some candidates coming in — whether Beto or whoever — and start getting a lot of attention when they do not have the same résumé of other candidates,” said Kathy Sullivan, a former New Hampshire Democratic chairwoman who has not yet endorsed in the race. Making clear that her exasperation was on behalf of some of the female candidates, Ms. Sullivan added, “But there’s nothing new about that, we’ve always had to do it backward and in heels.” Other Democrats worry about what they describe as the political version of post-traumatic stress disorder following Hillary Clinton’s stunning loss. Questions of viability, party officials say, have become overwhelming to the point that activists are uncertain about following their instincts out of fear they will nominate someone who will lose to Mr. Trump. “We’re so traumatized by 2016 that we’re afraid to trust our hearts and that’s turning us all into pundits,” said Adam Jentleson, a longtime Senate Democratic aide who supports Ms. Warren. “Overthinking and voting for a candidate we like less but who we think other people will like more is the path to ending up with a candidate no one likes very much.” Mr. Trump, who has long relished taunting Ms. Warren with the “Pocahontas” slur, has already declared victory. In an interview on Fox News last week, Mr. Trump said, “I hit her too hard, too early and now it looks like she’s finished.” Part of Ms. Warren’s challenge owes to timing — she is not the new candidate on the scene the way she would have been four years ago, when progressives lobbied for her to challenge Mrs. Clinton. “There were artificially high expectations early on because there was so much interest in her in 2016,” said Jennifer Palmieri, a top aide to Mrs. Clinton in the last race. “Everybody loves you when you’re the one who’s not in the race, and once you get in you’re a mortal and have to slog it out. That doesn’t mean you can’t come back and win — it’s just a different type of race.”  Ms. Warren’s most immediate challenge, though, may be money. She raised only $299,000 in the first day of her candidacy, far below the $5.9 million and $6.1 million Mr. Sanders and Mr. O’Rourke brought in for the same period and also less than Ms. Harris. In emails to supporters, asking for as little as $3, her campaign flatly says her rivals will post “fund-raising figures we won’t be able to match.” And after demonstrating little capacity to raise cash online, Ms. Warren effectively doubled down on small-dollar contributions, announcing last month that she would no longer hold big-money fund-raisers or seek wealthy donors to bundle hundreds of thousands of dollars in checks. She cast it as a decision long in the making that will offer her more time with voters. In truth, she made the choice only after a robust debate inside her campaign that led to the resignation of her finance director, Michael Pratt, who strenuously objected to the idea. At a Valentine’s Day meeting at Ms. Warren’s Washington condominium that began with a heart-shaped cake but soon grew heated, Mr. Pratt noted that campaigns often collapse when they run out of money and pleaded with her not to cut off a significant cash stream, according to Democrats briefed on the conversation. He pointed out that winning over wealthy fund-raisers across the country helped build networks that could translate into political support, not just checks. But Mr. Pratt lost the argument to two of Ms. Warren’s closest advisers, Dan Geldon and Joe Rospars, who made the case about standing apart from the field and freeing up her schedule. Mr. Pratt is not the only veteran adviser absent from this campaign. Among the others who are not involved are Mindy Myers, who ran the winning Senate race against Mr. Brown in 2012 and became chief of staff; the pollster Tom Kiley; and two ad makers, Mandy Grunwald and Marla Romash. (Mr. Kiley retired and Ms. Grunwald is staying out of Ms. Warren’s presidential campaign entirely because she has another client in the race, Senator Amy Klobuchar). Ms. Warren chose not to air the ads Ms. Grunwald and Ms. Romash made for her Senate re-election last year, determining that she was better off husbanding her resources than trying to establish herself with New Hampshire voters who live in the Boston media market. That saved her much of the cash she has since transferred to her presidential campaign, but it has also left her lagging in early New Hampshire polls. Those polls may not mean much if her fund-raising gamble pays off and she can emerge later this year, after a series of nationally televised debates and dozens more events like the one in Memphis. Wilnelia Rivera, a Boston political strategist who helped orchestrate Representative Ayanna Pressley’s primary victory in 2018, said that while a grass-roots strategy was often derided, she believed Ms. Warren could alter the way presidential campaigns are run if she becomes the nominee. “They’re up to something,” Ms. Rivera said of Ms. Warren’s campaign. “What that is? I have no idea. But we’re paying a lot of attention. Because she’s doing something that’s innovative.”    Supported by Where is the Republican — or Democrat — willing to break with the base? By Bret Stephens Opinion Columnist In 1992, recording artist Lisa Williamson, better known as Sister Souljah, opined, “If black people kill black people every day, why not have a week and kill white people?” She also said, “If there are any good white people, I haven’t met them.” Sensing a political opportunity, Bill Clinton went before Jesse Jackson’s Rainbow Coalition to rebuke Williamson. “If you took the words ‘white’ and ‘black,’ and you reversed them,” the Arkansas governor said, “you might think David Duke was giving that speech.” Jackson was furious. But Americans were reassured that Clinton really was a new kind of Democrat, not in thrall to the party’s left wing. He was elected president later that year. American politics could use another Sister Souljah moment. Two, in fact. The obvious need is among Republicans. In the last week, Donald Trump has renewed his campaign of insult against John McCain, proving that the lowest place on earth isn’t the Mariana Trench — it’s the president’s soul. Yet with the notable exception of Mitt Romney, no Republican of national stature has done much more than clear his throat by way of objection, as if the president were no worse than a bumptious uncle passing gas at a Thanksgiving table. It won’t do. What Trump said wasn’t rude. It was grotesque. It didn’t just besmirch the memory of the honored dead. It assaulted the feelings of the grieving living. It didn’t just transgress bounds of ordinary decency. It blew a hole (another one) in our already shattered expectations of presidential behavior. It showed that Trump isn’t merely unsuited to leadership. He’s unfitted for manhood. This would be the moment for a rising Republican leader — Nikki Haley comes to mind — to say, in clear and categorical terms, that is not us. She could give a speech in Sedona, Ariz., noting how John McCain’s values represented the Republican Party at its best: courage and freedom; faith and forgiveness; individualism and engagement. Such a Sister Souljah moment won’t derail Trump’s renomination. It may even harm the immediate political viability of whoever does the denouncing. But it will send a signal, essential for the party’s long-term health, that a future Republican president will restore honor and dignity to the White House. Democrats, too, desperately need such a moment if they are serious about winning the election next year. John Hickenlooper had his chance earlier this month on “Morning Joe” to describe himself, based on his business record, as a “proud capitalist.” He flubbed it. Elizabeth Warren and Cory Booker had a chance to repudiate Representative Ilhan Omar’s anti-Semitism forcefully and without equivocation, just as Nancy Pelosi did. They flubbed it. Kamala Harris had a chance to break out beyond her deep-blue base by opposing the Green New Deal in the name of fiscal responsibility. She flubbed it. Kirsten Gillibrand could have embraced her centrist record as a Blue Dog Democrat rather than run away from it. She’s flubbed it. Beto O’Rourke, Julian Castro and Pete Buttigieg could have bucked the charge that Democrats are becoming an anti-Israel party by showing up at next week’s Aipac conference. They’ve flubbed it. There’s still time. Trump’s executive order Thursday on campus free speech could provide another opportunity for a Democrat to break with progressive orthodoxy. Step 1: Criticize the order as an example of federal government overreach to which conservatives usually object. Step 2: Acknowledge that there is a serious problem on the left when it comes to speech, and that protecting the speech rights of all Americans is an irreducible and non-negotiable principle of liberalism. Step 3: Pledge that as president you will restore America’s moral leadership when it comes to defending press freedom, ideological diversity and individual conscience. How about it, Joe Biden? The chances of this happening seem slim. And the blowback a candidate would face from the progressive social-media furies would be great. But the point of a Sister Souljah moment isn’t to ingratiate a candidate to the party base. It’s to demonstrate independence and nerve. And furnish evidence that the candidate is of the center, not the fringe. And that he or she can appeal beyond the Democratic base to Americans who think capitalism is mainly good, anti-Semitism and anti-Zionism are profoundly bad, and the intellectual commissars of the woke left are intolerant bores. Donald Trump plans to win re-election on the strength of a fanatically devoted base, a prosperous economy, a Mueller report that finds no smoking gun and a Democratic Party that increasingly seems to find nothing wrong with the word “socialism.” It’s not a bad theory of the race, especially if there isn’t a Democrat willing to stand up and prove him wrong. As for the rest of the Republican Party, they believe they can squeak to re-election with a president who extols scoundrels, defames heroes, lies without compunction, holds to no higher principle than his personal gratification and thinks he can always get away with it, because he always does. Is there no Republican willing to stand up to all this, lest Trump be proven right? The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Bret L. Stephens has been an Opinion columnist with The Times since April 2017. He won a Pulitzer Prize for commentary at The Wall Street Journal in 2013 and was previously editor in chief of The Jerusalem Post.  @BretStephensNYT • Facebook 

Supported by Where is the Republican — or Democrat — willing to break with the base? By Bret Stephens Opinion Columnist In 1992, recording artist Lisa Williamson, better known as Sister Souljah, opined, “If black people kill black people every day, why not have a week and kill white people?” She also said, “If there are any good white people, I haven’t met them.” Sensing a political opportunity, Bill Clinton went before Jesse Jackson’s Rainbow Coalition to rebuke Williamson. “If you took the words ‘white’ and ‘black,’ and you reversed them,” the Arkansas governor said, “you might think David Duke was giving that speech.” Jackson was furious. But Americans were reassured that Clinton really was a new kind of Democrat, not in thrall to the party’s left wing. He was elected president later that year. American politics could use another Sister Souljah moment. Two, in fact. The obvious need is among Republicans. In the last week, Donald Trump has renewed his campaign of insult against John McCain, proving that the lowest place on earth isn’t the Mariana Trench — it’s the president’s soul. Yet with the notable exception of Mitt Romney, no Republican of national stature has done much more than clear his throat by way of objection, as if the president were no worse than a bumptious uncle passing gas at a Thanksgiving table. It won’t do. What Trump said wasn’t rude. It was grotesque. It didn’t just besmirch the memory of the honored dead. It assaulted the feelings of the grieving living. It didn’t just transgress bounds of ordinary decency. It blew a hole (another one) in our already shattered expectations of presidential behavior. It showed that Trump isn’t merely unsuited to leadership. He’s unfitted for manhood. This would be the moment for a rising Republican leader — Nikki Haley comes to mind — to say, in clear and categorical terms, that is not us. She could give a speech in Sedona, Ariz., noting how John McCain’s values represented the Republican Party at its best: courage and freedom; faith and forgiveness; individualism and engagement. Such a Sister Souljah moment won’t derail Trump’s renomination. It may even harm the immediate political viability of whoever does the denouncing. But it will send a signal, essential for the party’s long-term health, that a future Republican president will restore honor and dignity to the White House. Democrats, too, desperately need such a moment if they are serious about winning the election next year. John Hickenlooper had his chance earlier this month on “Morning Joe” to describe himself, based on his business record, as a “proud capitalist.” He flubbed it. Elizabeth Warren and Cory Booker had a chance to repudiate Representative Ilhan Omar’s anti-Semitism forcefully and without equivocation, just as Nancy Pelosi did. They flubbed it. Kamala Harris had a chance to break out beyond her deep-blue base by opposing the Green New Deal in the name of fiscal responsibility. She flubbed it. Kirsten Gillibrand could have embraced her centrist record as a Blue Dog Democrat rather than run away from it. She’s flubbed it. Beto O’Rourke, Julian Castro and Pete Buttigieg could have bucked the charge that Democrats are becoming an anti-Israel party by showing up at next week’s Aipac conference. They’ve flubbed it. There’s still time. Trump’s executive order Thursday on campus free speech could provide another opportunity for a Democrat to break with progressive orthodoxy. Step 1: Criticize the order as an example of federal government overreach to which conservatives usually object. Step 2: Acknowledge that there is a serious problem on the left when it comes to speech, and that protecting the speech rights of all Americans is an irreducible and non-negotiable principle of liberalism. Step 3: Pledge that as president you will restore America’s moral leadership when it comes to defending press freedom, ideological diversity and individual conscience. How about it, Joe Biden? The chances of this happening seem slim. And the blowback a candidate would face from the progressive social-media furies would be great. But the point of a Sister Souljah moment isn’t to ingratiate a candidate to the party base. It’s to demonstrate independence and nerve. And furnish evidence that the candidate is of the center, not the fringe. And that he or she can appeal beyond the Democratic base to Americans who think capitalism is mainly good, anti-Semitism and anti-Zionism are profoundly bad, and the intellectual commissars of the woke left are intolerant bores. Donald Trump plans to win re-election on the strength of a fanatically devoted base, a prosperous economy, a Mueller report that finds no smoking gun and a Democratic Party that increasingly seems to find nothing wrong with the word “socialism.” It’s not a bad theory of the race, especially if there isn’t a Democrat willing to stand up and prove him wrong. As for the rest of the Republican Party, they believe they can squeak to re-election with a president who extols scoundrels, defames heroes, lies without compunction, holds to no higher principle than his personal gratification and thinks he can always get away with it, because he always does. Is there no Republican willing to stand up to all this, lest Trump be proven right? The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Bret L. Stephens has been an Opinion columnist with The Times since April 2017. He won a Pulitzer Prize for commentary at The Wall Street Journal in 2013 and was previously editor in chief of The Jerusalem Post.  @BretStephensNYT • Facebook Supported by By The Associated Press PITTSBURGH — Jon Price was not old enough to vote in 2016, but is keeping a close eye on the expansive field of 2020 Democratic presidential candidates. He likes Kamala Harris, Elizabeth Warren, Pete Buttigieg and Bernie Sanders. The 20-year-old says it's "way too early" for him to make up his mind. But as he waited for Sanders to speak at a recent rally in Pittsburgh, Price was weighing which candidate might be best positioned to defeat President Donald Trump. Sanders, the Vermont senator, democratic socialist and liberal icon, "has the potential" to come out on top, Price said. That "potential" is at the forefront of Sanders' campaign. He's coming off a swing through the Midwest in which he made the case that his proposals to raise taxes on the wealthy , provide "Medicare for All" and make public college tuition free aren't too liberal for Rust Belt voters who swung to Trump in 2016 after backing Democrats for decades. It's precisely this platform, the senator would argue, that can win back voters from Pennsylvania to Wisconsin and deny the president another four years in the White House. The electability question surrounding Sanders' second White House bid will come into greater focus in the coming weeks. Former Vice President Joe Biden, who has blasted Democrats recently for embracing socialism, is expected to soon launch a campaign that also makes an explicit play for the Midwest, but with a more centrist message. Not to be outdone, Trump is putting a priority on keeping the states he wrested from Democrats. Following a recent campaign event in Michigan, the president will hold a campaign rally later this month in Wisconsin. Trump tweeted his prediction on Tuesday that Sanders and Biden would be the final two candidates in the Democratic primary and said he looks "forward to facing whoever it may be." Sanders is emerging as the early Democratic front-runner, raising more money than any of his rivals in the first quarter and taking risks that other contenders have eschewed. That was especially true with his decision to participate in a Pennsylvania town hall meeting hosted by Fox News, a network unpopular with some Democrats. "Why would you even agree to do that?" Sanders campaign manager Faiz Shakir said of the town hall in a recent interview. "The reason is that we are thinking about electability and talking to all audiences, including audiences that we may need to convince in the general election to start making out the case against Donald Trump and laying out the contrasts." Sanders underscored that point during his Midwest rallies by repeatedly making a general election argument reassuring those who worry his liberalism would hand Trump a second term. "We are not going to let him win them in 2020," Sanders bellowed in Pittsburgh, promising that he would deliver general election victories in Pennsylvania, Michigan and Wisconsin. Left unsaid was the fact that Sanders lost Pennsylvania by 12 points to Hillary Clinton during the 2016 Democratic primary. Trump later won it during the general election. In the fast-changing Philadelphia suburb of Delaware County, where Clinton won 60 percent in the 2016 primary, Democratic Party chair Colleen Guiney said it's hard to know whether Sanders really would have beaten Trump. "All politicians are confident in their strengths, and I'm sure that's his impression," she said. "Who knows what would have happened?" Belinda Beal doesn't have such doubt. As the 40-year-old from Clinton Township, Michigan, waited for a Sanders' rally to begin, she recalled crying when he lost the 2016 nomination. She said she believed his chances in 2020 are greater because people "see what has happened since. I think they'll be more dedicated to getting him in this time." In Pennsylvania, Barbara Wank, 86, backed Clinton during the primary, believing that she was best suited to defeat Trump. She now says she believes that Sanders would have defeated Trump in her state in 2016. But, she's less certain about 2020. "This is not that year," Wank, who lives in Lancaster, Pa., said. "So much has gone on since then, including four years that he has grown older...While I agree with him, I'm not sure he's the best candidate." Meanwhile, Biden's candidacy looms. Like Sanders' team, Biden allies have argued that he has a unique ability to win back white, working-class voters. Bill Kortz, a former steel worker and a seven-term state representative from outside Pittsburgh said that Biden is the only Democrat who can defeat Trump in a general election and that Sanders is "too far to the left" to appeal to moderates. "Joe has that charisma and the ability and the relationships here in Pennsylvania to win it big," Kortz said, adding that Biden "would smoke Trump" in the state. But in Wisconsin, Peter Rickman, a Milwaukee labor activist who led Sanders' state delegation to the 2016 Democratic National Convention, dismissed the idea that Biden would resonate with the senator's supporters as "baloney." "Just because you put on a hard hat and tour a factory doesn't mean you know what it's like working 40 hours a week supporting a family," Rickman said. While Biden and Sanders seem to be on an unavoidable collision course in the primary that will put their contrasts on full display, Sanders demurred Monday when asked whether Biden was a progressive. "Joe is a friend," he said during the Fox town hall. "He will give his point of view, I give mine, let the people decide," Sanders said. ___ Summers reported from Washington, Bauer from Madison, Wisconsin and Levy from Pittsburgh. Associated Press writer David Eggert contributed reporting from Warren, Michigan.

Supported by By The Associated Press PITTSBURGH — Jon Price was not old enough to vote in 2016, but is keeping a close eye on the expansive field of 2020 Democratic presidential candidates. He likes Kamala Harris, Elizabeth Warren, Pete Buttigieg and Bernie Sanders. The 20-year-old says it's "way too early" for him to make up his mind. But as he waited for Sanders to speak at a recent rally in Pittsburgh, Price was weighing which candidate might be best positioned to defeat President Donald Trump. Sanders, the Vermont senator, democratic socialist and liberal icon, "has the potential" to come out on top, Price said. That "potential" is at the forefront of Sanders' campaign. He's coming off a swing through the Midwest in which he made the case that his proposals to raise taxes on the wealthy , provide "Medicare for All" and make public college tuition free aren't too liberal for Rust Belt voters who swung to Trump in 2016 after backing Democrats for decades. It's precisely this platform, the senator would argue, that can win back voters from Pennsylvania to Wisconsin and deny the president another four years in the White House. The electability question surrounding Sanders' second White House bid will come into greater focus in the coming weeks. Former Vice President Joe Biden, who has blasted Democrats recently for embracing socialism, is expected to soon launch a campaign that also makes an explicit play for the Midwest, but with a more centrist message. Not to be outdone, Trump is putting a priority on keeping the states he wrested from Democrats. Following a recent campaign event in Michigan, the president will hold a campaign rally later this month in Wisconsin. Trump tweeted his prediction on Tuesday that Sanders and Biden would be the final two candidates in the Democratic primary and said he looks "forward to facing whoever it may be." Sanders is emerging as the early Democratic front-runner, raising more money than any of his rivals in the first quarter and taking risks that other contenders have eschewed. That was especially true with his decision to participate in a Pennsylvania town hall meeting hosted by Fox News, a network unpopular with some Democrats. "Why would you even agree to do that?" Sanders campaign manager Faiz Shakir said of the town hall in a recent interview. "The reason is that we are thinking about electability and talking to all audiences, including audiences that we may need to convince in the general election to start making out the case against Donald Trump and laying out the contrasts." Sanders underscored that point during his Midwest rallies by repeatedly making a general election argument reassuring those who worry his liberalism would hand Trump a second term. "We are not going to let him win them in 2020," Sanders bellowed in Pittsburgh, promising that he would deliver general election victories in Pennsylvania, Michigan and Wisconsin. Left unsaid was the fact that Sanders lost Pennsylvania by 12 points to Hillary Clinton during the 2016 Democratic primary. Trump later won it during the general election. In the fast-changing Philadelphia suburb of Delaware County, where Clinton won 60 percent in the 2016 primary, Democratic Party chair Colleen Guiney said it's hard to know whether Sanders really would have beaten Trump. "All politicians are confident in their strengths, and I'm sure that's his impression," she said. "Who knows what would have happened?" Belinda Beal doesn't have such doubt. As the 40-year-old from Clinton Township, Michigan, waited for a Sanders' rally to begin, she recalled crying when he lost the 2016 nomination. She said she believed his chances in 2020 are greater because people "see what has happened since. I think they'll be more dedicated to getting him in this time." In Pennsylvania, Barbara Wank, 86, backed Clinton during the primary, believing that she was best suited to defeat Trump. She now says she believes that Sanders would have defeated Trump in her state in 2016. But, she's less certain about 2020. "This is not that year," Wank, who lives in Lancaster, Pa., said. "So much has gone on since then, including four years that he has grown older...While I agree with him, I'm not sure he's the best candidate." Meanwhile, Biden's candidacy looms. Like Sanders' team, Biden allies have argued that he has a unique ability to win back white, working-class voters. Bill Kortz, a former steel worker and a seven-term state representative from outside Pittsburgh said that Biden is the only Democrat who can defeat Trump in a general election and that Sanders is "too far to the left" to appeal to moderates. "Joe has that charisma and the ability and the relationships here in Pennsylvania to win it big," Kortz said, adding that Biden "would smoke Trump" in the state. But in Wisconsin, Peter Rickman, a Milwaukee labor activist who led Sanders' state delegation to the 2016 Democratic National Convention, dismissed the idea that Biden would resonate with the senator's supporters as "baloney." "Just because you put on a hard hat and tour a factory doesn't mean you know what it's like working 40 hours a week supporting a family," Rickman said. While Biden and Sanders seem to be on an unavoidable collision course in the primary that will put their contrasts on full display, Sanders demurred Monday when asked whether Biden was a progressive. "Joe is a friend," he said during the Fox town hall. "He will give his point of view, I give mine, let the people decide," Sanders said. ___ Summers reported from Washington, Bauer from Madison, Wisconsin and Levy from Pittsburgh. Associated Press writer David Eggert contributed reporting from Warren, Michigan.Supported by DealBook The economist Joseph Stiglitz discusses Bernie Sanders, social policy and how we define ourselves — and one another. By Andrew Ross Sorkin Joseph Stiglitz settled into a booth at his favorite diner on the Upper West Side last week with a curious, almost satisfied smile on his face. He won a Nobel Prize nearly two decades ago for identifying the inequities and imperfections in market economies and has spent a career warning of the perils of wealth concentration, railing against monopoly power and championing higher taxes.  At last, a lot of people seem to be listening. “It’s been a long fight,” he said. The cause has been taken up by the new stars of the left, like Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, and can trace much of its current momentum to the rumpled rabble-rousing of Senator Bernie Sanders. The policy points Mr. Stiglitz talks about — a higher minimum wage, a public option for health insurance and more — could just as easily come from the mouths of any of those seeking to unseat President Trump in 2020.  And yet they demonstrate how the words we choose to talk about our economic priorities are almost as important as the priorities themselves. Last year, for the first time in a decade, a Gallup poll showed that Democrats had a more positive view of socialism than they did of capitalism. Those two words may play a pivotal role in our next election: Some Democrats have embraced the label of socialist, one long attacked by Republicans. And even some of those who have profited most from American-style free markets have worried about their sustainability, with the billionaire investor Ray Dalio going so far as to say that “capitalism is broken.” Mr. Stiglitz, stabbing his fork into his salad, said he believed there had been a critical misunderstanding of the terms themselves — and the economic theories behind them — that had allowed for their weaponization. “The meanings of the words have changed over time,” said Mr. Stiglitz, the chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers under President Bill Clinton and a former chief economist of the World Bank. And the words have become the subject of a branding battle crossing political and generational divides.  The professor in Mr. Stiglitz shared a history lesson that reached back to the early 20th century, about how socialism and communism became linked.  And he made the case that Mr. Sanders, a self-described democratic socialist, wasn’t actually a socialist — at least as the identity has long been defined.  Mr. Sanders’s agenda — which drew a fair share of cheers during a Fox News town-hall-style meeting this week — is not focused on “ownership of the means of production” or a statist system, Mr. Stiglitz said. “He’s really concerned about the social contract of health, education,” he added. It is not surprising that Mr. Sanders’s supporters trend young, a group for which the word “socialism” holds no fears of conflict with the Soviets or baggage associated with the Berlin Wall.  “Some people are trying to attach more emotions to the historical legacy of socialism, which was never the same as communism, but in the United States those distinctions have gotten blurred,” Mr. Stiglitz said. The attacks from the right have been anything but subtle. Just this month, Mr. Trump declared, “We’re going into the war with some socialists.” And Republicans have posited that Venezuela’s challenged economy is the inevitable result of any movement in the policy directions embraced by the left. The word leaves a bad taste even in the mouths of many on the left, including Nancy Pelosi, the speaker of the House, who lived through the height of the Cold War. “I do reject socialism as an economic system,” she said on “60 Minutes” last weekend. “If people have that view, that’s their view. That is not the view of the Democratic Party.” (In Europe, Mr. Stiglitz said, similarly minded politicians might rightly be called social democrats. A simple switch in word order emphasizes the “social” instead of “socialist.”) It all comes back to semantics, Mr. Stiglitz said. And perception was on his mind when titling his new book, “People, Power and Profits: Progressive Capitalism for an Age of Discontent,” which is to be published next week. In it, he maps out a plan that he calls a “social contract” to improve jobs, health, education, housing and retirement. In fact, it wouldn’t be surprising if it turned into the economic platform for a presidential candidate.  Mr. Stiglitz proposes using a combination of market forces and government nudges — a higher minimum wage and an expanded earned-income tax credit, for example — to help the poorest among us. He also supports a “public option” to improve competition in the private sector in areas like health care and even retirement savings. That’s not to say he views government as a panacea. For example, he wants to see the mortgage industry privatized. “In a private-sector economy, to have this huge piece of the economy that’s not run by the private sector is odd,” he said. Still, he also recommends a public option so that the government could support the mortgage market in certain cases.  Mr. Stiglitz said he had chosen “progressive capitalism” for his book’s title because he worried about triggering a visceral reaction to the word “socialism.” “I’m trying to avoid some of the emotions that are still attached,” he said. “I try in my title to use progressive capitalism to try to say I believe in a market economy, but I also believe in government regulation.” Even as popular figures on the left have embraced the label of socialist — Ms. Ocasio-Cortez is a member of the Democratic Socialists of America — others have sought, like Mr. Stiglitz, to underscore their capitalist views. Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Ind., who formally announced his candidacy for president this week, calls himself a proponent of “democratic capitalism.” If the evolving meaning of socialism strikes you as an inventive bit of rebranding, Mr. Stiglitz believes the conservative idea of American capitalism as an unfettered free-market system is itself a myth. “There is no Darwinian capitalism,” he said. “Everybody would say you need some degree of regulation of banks. I mean, no one is talking about real laissez-faire banking.”  Even the word “capitalist” has evolved, Mr. Stiglitz said. It is only since the late 20th century and the rise of the economist Milton Friedman, he contends, that “capitalist” stopped being a dirty word. It was once used in what he called “a pejorative way.” Capitalists were “people who were exploiting workers,” he said. That is an opinion, of course. And it is a view that is not hard to come by in some circles now, either.  Language changes, and as convenient as it can be to use linguistic shorthand, it’s important to remember that beneath the words are ideas — the things we should be talking about. Andrew Ross Sorkin is a columnist and the founder and editor-at-large of DealBook. He is a co-anchor of CNBC’s Squawk Box and the author of “Too Big to Fail.” He is also the co-creator of the Showtime drama series Billions.  @andrewrsorkin • Facebook 

Supported by DealBook The economist Joseph Stiglitz discusses Bernie Sanders, social policy and how we define ourselves — and one another. By Andrew Ross Sorkin Joseph Stiglitz settled into a booth at his favorite diner on the Upper West Side last week with a curious, almost satisfied smile on his face. He won a Nobel Prize nearly two decades ago for identifying the inequities and imperfections in market economies and has spent a career warning of the perils of wealth concentration, railing against monopoly power and championing higher taxes.  At last, a lot of people seem to be listening. “It’s been a long fight,” he said. The cause has been taken up by the new stars of the left, like Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, and can trace much of its current momentum to the rumpled rabble-rousing of Senator Bernie Sanders. The policy points Mr. Stiglitz talks about — a higher minimum wage, a public option for health insurance and more — could just as easily come from the mouths of any of those seeking to unseat President Trump in 2020.  And yet they demonstrate how the words we choose to talk about our economic priorities are almost as important as the priorities themselves. Last year, for the first time in a decade, a Gallup poll showed that Democrats had a more positive view of socialism than they did of capitalism. Those two words may play a pivotal role in our next election: Some Democrats have embraced the label of socialist, one long attacked by Republicans. And even some of those who have profited most from American-style free markets have worried about their sustainability, with the billionaire investor Ray Dalio going so far as to say that “capitalism is broken.” Mr. Stiglitz, stabbing his fork into his salad, said he believed there had been a critical misunderstanding of the terms themselves — and the economic theories behind them — that had allowed for their weaponization. “The meanings of the words have changed over time,” said Mr. Stiglitz, the chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers under President Bill Clinton and a former chief economist of the World Bank. And the words have become the subject of a branding battle crossing political and generational divides.  The professor in Mr. Stiglitz shared a history lesson that reached back to the early 20th century, about how socialism and communism became linked.  And he made the case that Mr. Sanders, a self-described democratic socialist, wasn’t actually a socialist — at least as the identity has long been defined.  Mr. Sanders’s agenda — which drew a fair share of cheers during a Fox News town-hall-style meeting this week — is not focused on “ownership of the means of production” or a statist system, Mr. Stiglitz said. “He’s really concerned about the social contract of health, education,” he added. It is not surprising that Mr. Sanders’s supporters trend young, a group for which the word “socialism” holds no fears of conflict with the Soviets or baggage associated with the Berlin Wall.  “Some people are trying to attach more emotions to the historical legacy of socialism, which was never the same as communism, but in the United States those distinctions have gotten blurred,” Mr. Stiglitz said. The attacks from the right have been anything but subtle. Just this month, Mr. Trump declared, “We’re going into the war with some socialists.” And Republicans have posited that Venezuela’s challenged economy is the inevitable result of any movement in the policy directions embraced by the left. The word leaves a bad taste even in the mouths of many on the left, including Nancy Pelosi, the speaker of the House, who lived through the height of the Cold War. “I do reject socialism as an economic system,” she said on “60 Minutes” last weekend. “If people have that view, that’s their view. That is not the view of the Democratic Party.” (In Europe, Mr. Stiglitz said, similarly minded politicians might rightly be called social democrats. A simple switch in word order emphasizes the “social” instead of “socialist.”) It all comes back to semantics, Mr. Stiglitz said. And perception was on his mind when titling his new book, “People, Power and Profits: Progressive Capitalism for an Age of Discontent,” which is to be published next week. In it, he maps out a plan that he calls a “social contract” to improve jobs, health, education, housing and retirement. In fact, it wouldn’t be surprising if it turned into the economic platform for a presidential candidate.  Mr. Stiglitz proposes using a combination of market forces and government nudges — a higher minimum wage and an expanded earned-income tax credit, for example — to help the poorest among us. He also supports a “public option” to improve competition in the private sector in areas like health care and even retirement savings. That’s not to say he views government as a panacea. For example, he wants to see the mortgage industry privatized. “In a private-sector economy, to have this huge piece of the economy that’s not run by the private sector is odd,” he said. Still, he also recommends a public option so that the government could support the mortgage market in certain cases.  Mr. Stiglitz said he had chosen “progressive capitalism” for his book’s title because he worried about triggering a visceral reaction to the word “socialism.” “I’m trying to avoid some of the emotions that are still attached,” he said. “I try in my title to use progressive capitalism to try to say I believe in a market economy, but I also believe in government regulation.” Even as popular figures on the left have embraced the label of socialist — Ms. Ocasio-Cortez is a member of the Democratic Socialists of America — others have sought, like Mr. Stiglitz, to underscore their capitalist views. Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Ind., who formally announced his candidacy for president this week, calls himself a proponent of “democratic capitalism.” If the evolving meaning of socialism strikes you as an inventive bit of rebranding, Mr. Stiglitz believes the conservative idea of American capitalism as an unfettered free-market system is itself a myth. “There is no Darwinian capitalism,” he said. “Everybody would say you need some degree of regulation of banks. I mean, no one is talking about real laissez-faire banking.”  Even the word “capitalist” has evolved, Mr. Stiglitz said. It is only since the late 20th century and the rise of the economist Milton Friedman, he contends, that “capitalist” stopped being a dirty word. It was once used in what he called “a pejorative way.” Capitalists were “people who were exploiting workers,” he said. That is an opinion, of course. And it is a view that is not hard to come by in some circles now, either.  Language changes, and as convenient as it can be to use linguistic shorthand, it’s important to remember that beneath the words are ideas — the things we should be talking about. Andrew Ross Sorkin is a columnist and the founder and editor-at-large of DealBook. He is a co-anchor of CNBC’s Squawk Box and the author of “Too Big to Fail.” He is also the co-creator of the Showtime drama series Billions.  @andrewrsorkin • Facebook Supported by It’s not whether to run, but whether to run against the emerging consensus of his party.  By Ross Douthat Opinion Columnist At some point soon, Joe Biden is going to have to make two decisions. The first is whether he wants to run for the Democratic nomination. The second is whether he wants to win it, and at what cost. Right now, even after some slippage, Biden has the highest polling numbers of any candidate in the race. He also has a record that’s completely out of step with his party’s activists and ideologists, a highly … familiar personal style that promises further accusations like the ones already leveled by Lucy Flores and Amy Lappos, and a base of support that’s roughly as old as he is. The combination makes it easy to imagine Biden running a campaign that ends up feeling like an apology tour, in which he talks endlessly about how much he has learned and grown since the days when he was a tough-on-crime Democrat who opposed school busing and sometimes voted for late-term abortion limits. Some of the ideas apparently bandied about by his aides — a one-term pledge! Stacey Abrams as a running mate! — fit with this strategy, in which the goal would be to establish Biden as a temporary bridge to a woker future, a candidate ready to put his moderate past behind him and serve the new liberal consensus. That kind of Biden campaign would probably lose. Indeed, it would probably lose — I know this is harsh — as badly as Jeb Bush did. Why? Because in a big primary field, with a lot of flavors available to voters, it’s very hard to hold your base if you aren’t giving that base a clear reason to vote for you. And the only reason anyone would affirmatively want to vote for Biden is the same reason so many liberals now despise the very idea of his candidacy: because he has that moderate record, because he’s closer to the political center than many of his critics, because he’s out of step with what Matt Yglesias of Vox recently called “the Great Awokening” — the sudden leftward turn on issues of race and immigration and identity. The key point here is that while the Great Awokening has transformed the Democratic Party, it hasn’t entirely eliminated the constituency for a Bill Clintonian form of moderation. The party has embraced left-wing ideas about structural racism, but there are still lots of Democratic voters — minority voters included, as white liberals have outpaced blacks and Hispanics in their wokeness — who would endorse the rhetoric of personal responsibility and colorblindness that the party’s activists now disdain as “respectability politics.” The party is more zealously pro-choice than ever, but there are still Democrats who identify as pro-life; the party is vigorously pro-#MeToo, but there are still Democrats (the Al Franken constituency and others) who worry that the movement has gone too far. And that’s just social issues: You can find similar constituencies who aren’t yet sold on the full social-democratic agenda, who still find the old Clinton-era mix of middle-class tax cuts and targeted spending more appealing than the Bernie Sanders turn. These groups — a mix of older white Democrats, culturally moderate African-Americans and Hispanics, and anti-Trump suburbanites — probably don’t amount to a primary-season majority. But they might add up to a large plurality in a divided field, which could easily be enough to win the nomination. (It’s how Sanders will win it, if he does — with a very different plurality, of course — and it’s how Trump won the Republican nomination in 2016.) To unite this plurality, though, Biden would have to actually appeal to them openly and directly, which would require taking ownership of his record: not defending everything, not avoiding all apologies, but arguing explicitly that some tough-on-crime policies were a necessary response to a destructive multi-decade crime wave, that some moderation on abortion should be acceptable in the Democratic Party and that the Ocasio-Cortezan turn on economic policy should be questioned or resisted. And, yes, defending his personal familiarity, hugs and nose-rubs and hair-kisses and all, and in the process questioning some aspects of #MeToo. Absent that argument, in a primary where Biden is just an old white dude running away from his record, the party’s various moderate voters will almost certainly fracture and go to fresher candidates with cleaner pitches — to the Texan Jesus or the South Bend Meritocrat or the Mean Minnesotan or the Racial Optimist. (That would be Beto O’Rourke, Pete Buttigieg, Amy Klobuchar and Cory Booker, respectively — none of whom are likely to challenge the Great Awokening directly, but all of whom offer something to Democratic voters wary of the left.) However: To run the way I’m suggesting, on his record rather than against it, would exact a possibly extraordinary cost. Just to campaign this way would make Biden hated by many liberals in a way that would make today’s Twitter animosity look mild. To win the nomination this way would produce fury on a scale that far eclipsed the pro-Sanders anger in 2016 and guarantee a strong 2020 showing for Jill Stein’s grifter left (if not a more sincere alternative). And to lose the nomination this way — which would remain, obviously, a strong possibility — would ensure that Biden exited the stage of liberal politics not as an elder statesman but as a wrong-side-of-history bad guy. Naturally I’d still like Biden to try it — not least because some of the party’s Reagan and Clinton-era compromises were Actually Good, and it would be good for today’s Democrats if a prominent Democrat defended them.  But even as a biased outsider to Democratic politics, I can see why Biden would shrink from the strategy, shrink from dividing his party by challenging its new consensus, shrink from being hated by his co-partisans. If so, though, I hope he has the wisdom not to run at all. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTOpinion) and Instagram, join the Facebook political discussion group, Voting While Female. Ross Douthat has been an Opinion columnist for The Times since 2009. He is the author of several books, most recently, “To Change the Church: Pope Francis and the Future of Catholicism.”
You can follow him on Twitter:  @DouthatNYT  You can follow him on Twitter:  @DouthatNYT 

Supported by It’s not whether to run, but whether to run against the emerging consensus of his party.  By Ross Douthat Opinion Columnist At some point soon, Joe Biden is going to have to make two decisions. The first is whether he wants to run for the Democratic nomination. The second is whether he wants to win it, and at what cost. Right now, even after some slippage, Biden has the highest polling numbers of any candidate in the race. He also has a record that’s completely out of step with his party’s activists and ideologists, a highly … familiar personal style that promises further accusations like the ones already leveled by Lucy Flores and Amy Lappos, and a base of support that’s roughly as old as he is. The combination makes it easy to imagine Biden running a campaign that ends up feeling like an apology tour, in which he talks endlessly about how much he has learned and grown since the days when he was a tough-on-crime Democrat who opposed school busing and sometimes voted for late-term abortion limits. Some of the ideas apparently bandied about by his aides — a one-term pledge! Stacey Abrams as a running mate! — fit with this strategy, in which the goal would be to establish Biden as a temporary bridge to a woker future, a candidate ready to put his moderate past behind him and serve the new liberal consensus. That kind of Biden campaign would probably lose. Indeed, it would probably lose — I know this is harsh — as badly as Jeb Bush did. Why? Because in a big primary field, with a lot of flavors available to voters, it’s very hard to hold your base if you aren’t giving that base a clear reason to vote for you. And the only reason anyone would affirmatively want to vote for Biden is the same reason so many liberals now despise the very idea of his candidacy: because he has that moderate record, because he’s closer to the political center than many of his critics, because he’s out of step with what Matt Yglesias of Vox recently called “the Great Awokening” — the sudden leftward turn on issues of race and immigration and identity. The key point here is that while the Great Awokening has transformed the Democratic Party, it hasn’t entirely eliminated the constituency for a Bill Clintonian form of moderation. The party has embraced left-wing ideas about structural racism, but there are still lots of Democratic voters — minority voters included, as white liberals have outpaced blacks and Hispanics in their wokeness — who would endorse the rhetoric of personal responsibility and colorblindness that the party’s activists now disdain as “respectability politics.” The party is more zealously pro-choice than ever, but there are still Democrats who identify as pro-life; the party is vigorously pro-#MeToo, but there are still Democrats (the Al Franken constituency and others) who worry that the movement has gone too far. And that’s just social issues: You can find similar constituencies who aren’t yet sold on the full social-democratic agenda, who still find the old Clinton-era mix of middle-class tax cuts and targeted spending more appealing than the Bernie Sanders turn. These groups — a mix of older white Democrats, culturally moderate African-Americans and Hispanics, and anti-Trump suburbanites — probably don’t amount to a primary-season majority. But they might add up to a large plurality in a divided field, which could easily be enough to win the nomination. (It’s how Sanders will win it, if he does — with a very different plurality, of course — and it’s how Trump won the Republican nomination in 2016.) To unite this plurality, though, Biden would have to actually appeal to them openly and directly, which would require taking ownership of his record: not defending everything, not avoiding all apologies, but arguing explicitly that some tough-on-crime policies were a necessary response to a destructive multi-decade crime wave, that some moderation on abortion should be acceptable in the Democratic Party and that the Ocasio-Cortezan turn on economic policy should be questioned or resisted. And, yes, defending his personal familiarity, hugs and nose-rubs and hair-kisses and all, and in the process questioning some aspects of #MeToo. Absent that argument, in a primary where Biden is just an old white dude running away from his record, the party’s various moderate voters will almost certainly fracture and go to fresher candidates with cleaner pitches — to the Texan Jesus or the South Bend Meritocrat or the Mean Minnesotan or the Racial Optimist. (That would be Beto O’Rourke, Pete Buttigieg, Amy Klobuchar and Cory Booker, respectively — none of whom are likely to challenge the Great Awokening directly, but all of whom offer something to Democratic voters wary of the left.) However: To run the way I’m suggesting, on his record rather than against it, would exact a possibly extraordinary cost. Just to campaign this way would make Biden hated by many liberals in a way that would make today’s Twitter animosity look mild. To win the nomination this way would produce fury on a scale that far eclipsed the pro-Sanders anger in 2016 and guarantee a strong 2020 showing for Jill Stein’s grifter left (if not a more sincere alternative). And to lose the nomination this way — which would remain, obviously, a strong possibility — would ensure that Biden exited the stage of liberal politics not as an elder statesman but as a wrong-side-of-history bad guy. Naturally I’d still like Biden to try it — not least because some of the party’s Reagan and Clinton-era compromises were Actually Good, and it would be good for today’s Democrats if a prominent Democrat defended them.  But even as a biased outsider to Democratic politics, I can see why Biden would shrink from the strategy, shrink from dividing his party by challenging its new consensus, shrink from being hated by his co-partisans. If so, though, I hope he has the wisdom not to run at all. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTOpinion) and Instagram, join the Facebook political discussion group, Voting While Female. Ross Douthat has been an Opinion columnist for The Times since 2009. He is the author of several books, most recently, “To Change the Church: Pope Francis and the Future of Catholicism.”
You can follow him on Twitter:  @DouthatNYT  You can follow him on Twitter:  @DouthatNYT Supported by On Politics With Lisa Lerer By Lisa Lerer Hi. Welcome to On Politics, your guide to the day in national politics. I’m Lisa Lerer, your host. [Get On Politics delivered to your inbox.] It’s hard to overstate the role Twitter now plays in politics. It’s the president’s favorite form of communication. It’s where public officials make statements, where activists pressure politicians and where reporters announce their latest scoops. It’s where the “conventional wisdom” forms and where our national political narrative is created. And it’s totally unrepresentative of America. This news probably comes as little surprise to many of you. (I read your notes complaining when we link to too many tweets in this newsletter.) But for those who are online political junkies, Twitter can be all-consuming — and, if I may be so bold, perhaps perverting how you think about the 2020 race. That’s why I wanted to highlight this excellent analysis published this week by our colleagues Nate Cohn and Kevin Quealy. “The views of Democrats on social media often bear little resemblance to those of the wider Democratic electorate,” they write. “The outspoken group of Democratic-leaning voters on social media is outnumbered, roughly 2 to 1, by the more moderate, more diverse and less educated group of Democrats who typically don’t post political content online.” Their big takeaway happens to be our second On Politics rule of 2020: Twitter is not real life.  Now, I must admit my personal position as an avowed Twitter skeptic. My experience during the 2016 election was generally unpleasant: As a woman covering Hillary Clinton, the site sometimes felt like a surreal mix of inside jokes, warmed-over hot takes and snark, interspersed with rape threats. But even if your own feed is more hospitable, it’s clear from the data that Twitter’s 280-character window offers a pretty small viewfinder. It’s worth diving into some of the specifics of what Nate and Kevin found: • Democrats on Twitter are more liberal. Twenty-nine percent of Democrats who post political content online identify as moderate or conservative; 53 percent of other Democrats say they do. • Democrats on Twitter are whiter. Seventy-one percent of Democrats who post political content online are white; only 55 percent of other Democrats are. Black voters represent around 20 percent of the Democratic electorate nationwide but just 11 percent of Democrats on social media. •Democrats on Twitter are more politically active. Twenty-eight percent of Democrats who post political content online say they’ve attended a protest over the past year; only 7 percent of other Democrats say they have. Historically, candidates who’ve built their support largely on the backs of the party’s liberals have lost: Gary Hart, Jesse Jackson, Howard Dean and Bernie Sanders come to mind. The candidates who found support among the Democratic establishment — Hillary Clinton, Al Gore and yes, Barack Obama — won the nomination by getting wider backing. So what does all this mean for 2020? As we’ve written before, there’s no question that the Democratic Party has moved to the left in the Trump era. But what this data signals to us is that the issues driving the social media conversation — like Joe Biden’s touchy-feely style or questions around Elizabeth Warren’s ancestry — may not prove to be quite as significant in the real life of the Democratic primary election. Speaking of social media, I highly recommend digging through this deep look at the state of privacy by our opinion section. I’ve already bookmarked it for my flight to Des Moines tomorrow morning. [Sign up here to get On Politics in your inbox.] ____________________ Drop us a line! We want to hear from our readers. Have a question? We’ll try to answer it. Have a comment? We’re all ears. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com. ____________________ A poll of Democratic voters in Iowa released today by Monmouth University gives us another glimpse of how the early 2020 field is shaping up. Here were the top choices, with the percentage of voters who favor them. Joe Biden: 27 percent Bernie Sanders: 16 percent Pete Buttigieg: 9 percent Kamala Harris: 7 percent Elizabeth Warren: 7 percent Beto O’Rourke: 6 percent After that, Amy Klobuchar was at 4 percent, Cory Booker at 3 percent and Julián Castro at 2 percent. Tied with 1 percent were John Delaney, Kirsten Gillibrand, Tim Ryan, Eric Swalwell and Andrew Yang. [Read our story on the poll here, and see the numbers for yourself here.] The poll also asked about some of the biggest policies of the primary. Here are the percentages of voters who said it was “very important or somewhat important to nominate someone who supports _________.” Green New Deal: 72 percent “Medicare for All”: 82 percent Impeaching President Trump: 38 percent Before you jump to any conclusions about the race, remember: The Iowa caucuses are still 298 days away. ____________________ •  A “computer glitch” in a Louisiana parish may have left more than 150,000 people — including many born after 1993 — out of a jury roll database, potentially starving young defendants of jurors who were roughly their age. • India’s election is the biggest in history, with nearly 900 million voters set to cast ballots for a new Parliament. Here’s a simple guide to everything you need to know about the vote, which lasts for five weeks. • In The New Yorker, Rachel Aviv writes about the difficulty of going off antidepressants, a struggle millions of Americans face. ____________________ It’s the internet’s new favorite pastime: Isaac Chotiner of The New Yorker interviews a subject — today’s installment features the author Bret Easton Ellis — and pokes at them so adroitly that just reading the back-and-forth makes you tense up in your seat. (His style is even becoming a meme.) _____________________ Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox. Thanks for reading. Politics is more than what goes on inside the White House. On Politics brings you the people, issues and ideas reshaping our world. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.

Supported by On Politics With Lisa Lerer By Lisa Lerer Hi. Welcome to On Politics, your guide to the day in national politics. I’m Lisa Lerer, your host. [Get On Politics delivered to your inbox.] It’s hard to overstate the role Twitter now plays in politics. It’s the president’s favorite form of communication. It’s where public officials make statements, where activists pressure politicians and where reporters announce their latest scoops. It’s where the “conventional wisdom” forms and where our national political narrative is created. And it’s totally unrepresentative of America. This news probably comes as little surprise to many of you. (I read your notes complaining when we link to too many tweets in this newsletter.) But for those who are online political junkies, Twitter can be all-consuming — and, if I may be so bold, perhaps perverting how you think about the 2020 race. That’s why I wanted to highlight this excellent analysis published this week by our colleagues Nate Cohn and Kevin Quealy. “The views of Democrats on social media often bear little resemblance to those of the wider Democratic electorate,” they write. “The outspoken group of Democratic-leaning voters on social media is outnumbered, roughly 2 to 1, by the more moderate, more diverse and less educated group of Democrats who typically don’t post political content online.” Their big takeaway happens to be our second On Politics rule of 2020: Twitter is not real life.  Now, I must admit my personal position as an avowed Twitter skeptic. My experience during the 2016 election was generally unpleasant: As a woman covering Hillary Clinton, the site sometimes felt like a surreal mix of inside jokes, warmed-over hot takes and snark, interspersed with rape threats. But even if your own feed is more hospitable, it’s clear from the data that Twitter’s 280-character window offers a pretty small viewfinder. It’s worth diving into some of the specifics of what Nate and Kevin found: • Democrats on Twitter are more liberal. Twenty-nine percent of Democrats who post political content online identify as moderate or conservative; 53 percent of other Democrats say they do. • Democrats on Twitter are whiter. Seventy-one percent of Democrats who post political content online are white; only 55 percent of other Democrats are. Black voters represent around 20 percent of the Democratic electorate nationwide but just 11 percent of Democrats on social media. •Democrats on Twitter are more politically active. Twenty-eight percent of Democrats who post political content online say they’ve attended a protest over the past year; only 7 percent of other Democrats say they have. Historically, candidates who’ve built their support largely on the backs of the party’s liberals have lost: Gary Hart, Jesse Jackson, Howard Dean and Bernie Sanders come to mind. The candidates who found support among the Democratic establishment — Hillary Clinton, Al Gore and yes, Barack Obama — won the nomination by getting wider backing. So what does all this mean for 2020? As we’ve written before, there’s no question that the Democratic Party has moved to the left in the Trump era. But what this data signals to us is that the issues driving the social media conversation — like Joe Biden’s touchy-feely style or questions around Elizabeth Warren’s ancestry — may not prove to be quite as significant in the real life of the Democratic primary election. Speaking of social media, I highly recommend digging through this deep look at the state of privacy by our opinion section. I’ve already bookmarked it for my flight to Des Moines tomorrow morning. [Sign up here to get On Politics in your inbox.] ____________________ Drop us a line! We want to hear from our readers. Have a question? We’ll try to answer it. Have a comment? We’re all ears. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com. ____________________ A poll of Democratic voters in Iowa released today by Monmouth University gives us another glimpse of how the early 2020 field is shaping up. Here were the top choices, with the percentage of voters who favor them. Joe Biden: 27 percent Bernie Sanders: 16 percent Pete Buttigieg: 9 percent Kamala Harris: 7 percent Elizabeth Warren: 7 percent Beto O’Rourke: 6 percent After that, Amy Klobuchar was at 4 percent, Cory Booker at 3 percent and Julián Castro at 2 percent. Tied with 1 percent were John Delaney, Kirsten Gillibrand, Tim Ryan, Eric Swalwell and Andrew Yang. [Read our story on the poll here, and see the numbers for yourself here.] The poll also asked about some of the biggest policies of the primary. Here are the percentages of voters who said it was “very important or somewhat important to nominate someone who supports _________.” Green New Deal: 72 percent “Medicare for All”: 82 percent Impeaching President Trump: 38 percent Before you jump to any conclusions about the race, remember: The Iowa caucuses are still 298 days away. ____________________ •  A “computer glitch” in a Louisiana parish may have left more than 150,000 people — including many born after 1993 — out of a jury roll database, potentially starving young defendants of jurors who were roughly their age. • India’s election is the biggest in history, with nearly 900 million voters set to cast ballots for a new Parliament. Here’s a simple guide to everything you need to know about the vote, which lasts for five weeks. • In The New Yorker, Rachel Aviv writes about the difficulty of going off antidepressants, a struggle millions of Americans face. ____________________ It’s the internet’s new favorite pastime: Isaac Chotiner of The New Yorker interviews a subject — today’s installment features the author Bret Easton Ellis — and pokes at them so adroitly that just reading the back-and-forth makes you tense up in your seat. (His style is even becoming a meme.) _____________________ Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox. Thanks for reading. Politics is more than what goes on inside the White House. On Politics brings you the people, issues and ideas reshaping our world. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.Supported by On Politics With Lisa Lerer By Lisa Lerer Hi. Welcome to On Politics, your guide to the day in national politics. I’m Lisa Lerer, your host. [Get On Politics delivered to your inbox.] He kissed a senator’s wife on the lips. He joked about the attractiveness of several senators’ teenage daughters and granddaughters. And he told a female senator to “spread her legs” because she was “going to be frisked.”  A #MeToo moment? That’s not how it was seen at the time. No, that was just Joe Biden, hamming it up as he swore in the new senators. In his time as vice president, the ceremony became an annual spectacle in Washington, with his behavior even earning an affectionate nickname: “Bidening.” Those jokes, hugs and kisses may look different now. An essay published Friday night by Lucy Flores, a former Nevada legislator, that accuses Mr. Biden of leaning into her, smelling her hair and kissing her head in a way that made her uncomfortable at a 2014 campaign rally, has thrust the possible presidential candidate into a major generational reckoning. [A second woman came forward Monday and accused Mr. Biden of touching her in a way that made her feel uncomfortable.] Mr. Biden entered the Senate in 1973 — before abortion was legal, before the Watergate hearings, before VCRs, before the Democratic presidential candidate Pete Buttigieg was born, and certainly before any serious national conversation about consent. Whether the 76-year-old Mr. Biden can get right with his party’s current mores around race and gender may be the most fraught question hanging over his presidential aspirations. In the #MeToo era, we talk a lot about “open secrets.” But Mr. Biden’s touchy-feely behavior wasn’t a secret at all. It was photographed, televised and widely discussed. And, for years, it was viewed as a political asset. Mr. Biden was a skilled retail politician, according to the conventional wisdom, someone who could work a room, charm a crowd, win them over booth by booth in a New Hampshire diner. This weekend’s accusations could transform that strength into a weakness. In response to Ms. Flores’s account, Mr. Biden said he didn’t believe he had ever acted inappropriately in public life but was willing to “listen respectfully” to those who may feel differently. Ms. Flores flipped the frame, saying Mr. Biden’s perception didn’t matter: How his actions made her feel was more important. “Frankly, my point was never about his intentions, and they shouldn’t be about his intentions,” she said in an interview with CNN. “It should be about the women on the receiving end of that behavior.” Now, the political world finds itself litigating a series of thorny questions. Does intent matter? Are we allowed to think that a back-of-head kiss is “not as bad” as a mouth kiss, even though they are both kind of gross? Can a progressive male politician issue a denial, while still saying he believes women? The debate, which should come as no surprise to Mr. Biden or his team if they’ve been following the news over the past two years, will ultimately be decided by voters, should Mr. Biden jump into the race. Last month, Mr. Biden referred to himself as a “tactile politician” during a speech in Dover, Del., arguing that the skill helped him understand voters. Whether he understands the political moment, though, remains an open question. [Sign up here to get On Politics in your inbox.] We want to hear from our female readers. What do you think about the way Joe Biden interacts with women? Email us your thoughts at onpolitics@nytimes.com. Include your name and home state, and we may feature your response in Thursday’s newsletter. ____________________ It’s Election Day Eve in Wisconsin! The Supreme Court race on the ballot Tuesday won’t change the conservative majority on the state’s highest court. But it will tell us something about the political mood in a key battleground state that Democrats lost by a little more than 22,000 votes in 2016 and carried two years later. While Supreme Court races are technically nonpartisan affairs, they’ve become heavily politicized events, with millions of dollars pouring in from political groups. In this year’s contest, conservatives back Judge Brian Hagedorn and liberals are behind Judge Lisa Neubauer. The candidates faced off in a bitter debate last month that featured accusations of lying and questions of temperament. A win by Judge Neubauer would leave liberals in a strong position to retake control of the court the next time a seat comes up in 2020, when Democrats typically benefit from the larger turnout of a presidential year. The court could face several big political decisions, including questions around the redistricting that will follow the 2020 census and determine the makeup of congressional districts. Turnout for Supreme Court elections is typically around 20 percent, less than half that of a race for governor. Still, political strategists will be watching to try to extrapolate trends about motivation, enthusiasm, and the energy of Democratic and Republican voters in the state. One area to pay attention to: suburban counties outside Milwaukee that typically vote Republican but have shown some erosion during the Trump era. Want to know more? Milwaukee Magazine explains years of Supreme Court races — through Star Wars. ____________________ • Chicago will vote Tuesday on a runoff election for mayor. It’s destined to make history: No matter which candidate wins, Chicago will become the largest U.S. city ever to elect an African-American woman as its mayor. • How is the Trump era molding the next generation of voters? Surveys reveal teenagers to be anxious about the country and likely to embrace liberal views, even when identifying as Republican. • Hey, governor, what are you wearing? The Times’s chief fashion critic reflects on the news that J.B. Pritzker, the governor of Illinois, gets daily style recommendations. ____________________ “Surrounded by rats, black trash bags and graffiti-tagged storefronts on Broadway Street, New York’s primary thoroughfare, I wondered aloud if I would be able to find a decent meal in what was surely a culinary heart of darkness.” For April Fools’ Day, The Los Angeles Times gives us a taste of our own medicine, with a trip to the exotic city of New York to sample the local delicacies like “pizza” and “bagels.” _____________________ Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox. Thanks for reading. Politics is more than what goes on inside the White House. On Politics brings you the people, issues and ideas reshaping our world. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.

Supported by On Politics With Lisa Lerer By Lisa Lerer Hi. Welcome to On Politics, your guide to the day in national politics. I’m Lisa Lerer, your host. [Get On Politics delivered to your inbox.] He kissed a senator’s wife on the lips. He joked about the attractiveness of several senators’ teenage daughters and granddaughters. And he told a female senator to “spread her legs” because she was “going to be frisked.”  A #MeToo moment? That’s not how it was seen at the time. No, that was just Joe Biden, hamming it up as he swore in the new senators. In his time as vice president, the ceremony became an annual spectacle in Washington, with his behavior even earning an affectionate nickname: “Bidening.” Those jokes, hugs and kisses may look different now. An essay published Friday night by Lucy Flores, a former Nevada legislator, that accuses Mr. Biden of leaning into her, smelling her hair and kissing her head in a way that made her uncomfortable at a 2014 campaign rally, has thrust the possible presidential candidate into a major generational reckoning. [A second woman came forward Monday and accused Mr. Biden of touching her in a way that made her feel uncomfortable.] Mr. Biden entered the Senate in 1973 — before abortion was legal, before the Watergate hearings, before VCRs, before the Democratic presidential candidate Pete Buttigieg was born, and certainly before any serious national conversation about consent. Whether the 76-year-old Mr. Biden can get right with his party’s current mores around race and gender may be the most fraught question hanging over his presidential aspirations. In the #MeToo era, we talk a lot about “open secrets.” But Mr. Biden’s touchy-feely behavior wasn’t a secret at all. It was photographed, televised and widely discussed. And, for years, it was viewed as a political asset. Mr. Biden was a skilled retail politician, according to the conventional wisdom, someone who could work a room, charm a crowd, win them over booth by booth in a New Hampshire diner. This weekend’s accusations could transform that strength into a weakness. In response to Ms. Flores’s account, Mr. Biden said he didn’t believe he had ever acted inappropriately in public life but was willing to “listen respectfully” to those who may feel differently. Ms. Flores flipped the frame, saying Mr. Biden’s perception didn’t matter: How his actions made her feel was more important. “Frankly, my point was never about his intentions, and they shouldn’t be about his intentions,” she said in an interview with CNN. “It should be about the women on the receiving end of that behavior.” Now, the political world finds itself litigating a series of thorny questions. Does intent matter? Are we allowed to think that a back-of-head kiss is “not as bad” as a mouth kiss, even though they are both kind of gross? Can a progressive male politician issue a denial, while still saying he believes women? The debate, which should come as no surprise to Mr. Biden or his team if they’ve been following the news over the past two years, will ultimately be decided by voters, should Mr. Biden jump into the race. Last month, Mr. Biden referred to himself as a “tactile politician” during a speech in Dover, Del., arguing that the skill helped him understand voters. Whether he understands the political moment, though, remains an open question. [Sign up here to get On Politics in your inbox.] We want to hear from our female readers. What do you think about the way Joe Biden interacts with women? Email us your thoughts at onpolitics@nytimes.com. Include your name and home state, and we may feature your response in Thursday’s newsletter. ____________________ It’s Election Day Eve in Wisconsin! The Supreme Court race on the ballot Tuesday won’t change the conservative majority on the state’s highest court. But it will tell us something about the political mood in a key battleground state that Democrats lost by a little more than 22,000 votes in 2016 and carried two years later. While Supreme Court races are technically nonpartisan affairs, they’ve become heavily politicized events, with millions of dollars pouring in from political groups. In this year’s contest, conservatives back Judge Brian Hagedorn and liberals are behind Judge Lisa Neubauer. The candidates faced off in a bitter debate last month that featured accusations of lying and questions of temperament. A win by Judge Neubauer would leave liberals in a strong position to retake control of the court the next time a seat comes up in 2020, when Democrats typically benefit from the larger turnout of a presidential year. The court could face several big political decisions, including questions around the redistricting that will follow the 2020 census and determine the makeup of congressional districts. Turnout for Supreme Court elections is typically around 20 percent, less than half that of a race for governor. Still, political strategists will be watching to try to extrapolate trends about motivation, enthusiasm, and the energy of Democratic and Republican voters in the state. One area to pay attention to: suburban counties outside Milwaukee that typically vote Republican but have shown some erosion during the Trump era. Want to know more? Milwaukee Magazine explains years of Supreme Court races — through Star Wars. ____________________ • Chicago will vote Tuesday on a runoff election for mayor. It’s destined to make history: No matter which candidate wins, Chicago will become the largest U.S. city ever to elect an African-American woman as its mayor. • How is the Trump era molding the next generation of voters? Surveys reveal teenagers to be anxious about the country and likely to embrace liberal views, even when identifying as Republican. • Hey, governor, what are you wearing? The Times’s chief fashion critic reflects on the news that J.B. Pritzker, the governor of Illinois, gets daily style recommendations. ____________________ “Surrounded by rats, black trash bags and graffiti-tagged storefronts on Broadway Street, New York’s primary thoroughfare, I wondered aloud if I would be able to find a decent meal in what was surely a culinary heart of darkness.” For April Fools’ Day, The Los Angeles Times gives us a taste of our own medicine, with a trip to the exotic city of New York to sample the local delicacies like “pizza” and “bagels.” _____________________ Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox. Thanks for reading. Politics is more than what goes on inside the White House. On Politics brings you the people, issues and ideas reshaping our world. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.Supported by By Andrea Kannapell and Lisa Iaboni (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)  Good evening. Here’s the latest. 1. Fire ravaged the Cathedral of Notre-Dame. Thousands of people watched in shock from the banks of the Seine, and many more were riveted to television screens, as flames tore through the beloved medieval landmark’s wooden roof. Its iconic spire collapsed. Gray smoke filled the Paris sky into the night as firefighters struggled to contain the blaze, which officials said had begun in the attic. Here’s the latest. No cause was identified as of this writing, nor any injuries. The cathedral had been undergoing extensive renovations, including work on the spire. We have photos and video of the disaster, and a short history of this scarred jewel of Gothic architecture. _____ 2. In the U.S., President Trump visited Burnsville, Minn., for a round table on the economy and tax reform, above. That took him near the district represented by one of his new political targets: Ilhan Omar, a Democrat and one of the first Muslim women elected to Congress. He has portrayed her remarks addressing the suspicions directed at American Muslims after Sept. 11 as dismissive of the terrorist attacks. She has reported a rise in death threats against her. And we have the back story on a meeting at the White House last month that set off the purge of homeland security officials. The key ingredient: the fury of Stephen Miller, the 33-year-old White House senior adviser, that they had not put into effect the policies he pushed. _____ 3. The Mueller report will be released to Congress and the public on Thursday, the Justice Department said. Attorney General William Barr will offer the report after lawyers from Justice and the office of the special counsel, Robert Mueller, finish reviewing the voluminous report on the 22-month investigation. They’re blacking out passages involving secret grand jury testimony, classified information, material related to continuing investigations and other sensitive information. _____ 4. Meanwhile, it’s tax day for most of the U.S. People in Maine and Massachusetts, which celebrate holidays today, have until midnight Wednesday. We assessed how the Trump administration’s tax cuts appear to be unfolding. Senator Bernie Sanders, pictured above at a rally in Pittsburgh on Sunday, disclosed 10 years of his tax returns. They show a sharp rise in income following his first presidential bid, when he built up a national following and his books sold widely. That income, more than $1 million, puts him in the top 1 percent of taxpayers. We’re also watching for campaign finance declarations from all the presidential candidates, including Pete Buttigieg, who joined the field over the weekend. Their deadline is midnight. _____ 5. At least 17 tornadoes ripped through Texas, Mississippi, Alabama and Ohio over the weekend, and powerful storms swept across the South to the Northeast. Nine people, including three children, were killed — though none, amazingly, in the flattened town of Franklin, Tex., above. By this morning, most of the severe weather was pushing off the East Coast. _____ 6. A New York miracle: The three people in the small plane above were spared a probably fatal crash on Sunday night — by getting tangled up in aboveground utility cables. The plane had run out of fuel above Long Island as it circled for a seventh attempt to land in thick fog. The three aboard, all men from Flushing, were uninjured, except, the police said, for a single sprained finger. ___ 7. One of our most-read articles today is about how some cities are considering using their relative stability in the face of climate change as a demographic lure. The mayor in Duluth, Minn., has been intrigued by the idea of becoming a climate refuge. “It’s not as cold as you think,” goes one possible slogan. Above, skiers on Lake Superior last month. Buffalo has floated the idea as well. Separately, there was sad news for bike-share riders who’ve come to love a power assist. Lyft-owned companies pulled their electric bikes from New York, San Francisco and Washington. Dozens of riders have reported injuries while riding, possibly because the front-wheel braking is too powerful. _____ 8. Triumphs in sport. In the Boston Marathon, Lawrence Cherono of Kenya, above left, beat Lelisa Desisa of Ethiopia to the men’s victory by just a stride, in 2:07:57, while Worknesh Degefa of Ethiopia ran away from the field of women, finishing in 2:23:31. In the push rim wheelchair competition, Daniel Romanchuk, a 20-year-old American, became the youngest winner, in 1:21:36. Manuela Schar of Switzerland won the women’s event for a second time, at 1:34:19. And the awe over Tiger Woods’s win at the Masters on Sunday is far from over — he’s joined the ranks of the greatest comebacks in sports history. _____ 9. Pulitzer Prizes:  The Sun Sentinel of South Florida won the prize for public service, the most prestigious of the annual awards for journalism, for its coverage of the deadly shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School. Above, the reaction in the newsroom. The Times celebrated two: one for the investigative team that unmasked the dubious tax schemes President Trump and his siblings used to avoid taxes on hundreds of millions of dollars from their father’s real estate empire; and one for editorial writing, for essays by Brent Staples that helped rewrite the history of race in America. Here’s the full list of winners. _____ 10. And finally, for your entertainment: Our television editor himself recapped Episode 1 of the final season of “Game of Thrones.” (Do we need to warn you? Spoilers!) Or let this thoughtful exploration of the attraction of animal videos give you permission to enjoy a few. Or skip right over to this epic face-off: bird versus cat. Have a delightful evening. Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern. And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here. What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.

Supported by By Andrea Kannapell and Lisa Iaboni (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)  Good evening. Here’s the latest. 1. Fire ravaged the Cathedral of Notre-Dame. Thousands of people watched in shock from the banks of the Seine, and many more were riveted to television screens, as flames tore through the beloved medieval landmark’s wooden roof. Its iconic spire collapsed. Gray smoke filled the Paris sky into the night as firefighters struggled to contain the blaze, which officials said had begun in the attic. Here’s the latest. No cause was identified as of this writing, nor any injuries. The cathedral had been undergoing extensive renovations, including work on the spire. We have photos and video of the disaster, and a short history of this scarred jewel of Gothic architecture. _____ 2. In the U.S., President Trump visited Burnsville, Minn., for a round table on the economy and tax reform, above. That took him near the district represented by one of his new political targets: Ilhan Omar, a Democrat and one of the first Muslim women elected to Congress. He has portrayed her remarks addressing the suspicions directed at American Muslims after Sept. 11 as dismissive of the terrorist attacks. She has reported a rise in death threats against her. And we have the back story on a meeting at the White House last month that set off the purge of homeland security officials. The key ingredient: the fury of Stephen Miller, the 33-year-old White House senior adviser, that they had not put into effect the policies he pushed. _____ 3. The Mueller report will be released to Congress and the public on Thursday, the Justice Department said. Attorney General William Barr will offer the report after lawyers from Justice and the office of the special counsel, Robert Mueller, finish reviewing the voluminous report on the 22-month investigation. They’re blacking out passages involving secret grand jury testimony, classified information, material related to continuing investigations and other sensitive information. _____ 4. Meanwhile, it’s tax day for most of the U.S. People in Maine and Massachusetts, which celebrate holidays today, have until midnight Wednesday. We assessed how the Trump administration’s tax cuts appear to be unfolding. Senator Bernie Sanders, pictured above at a rally in Pittsburgh on Sunday, disclosed 10 years of his tax returns. They show a sharp rise in income following his first presidential bid, when he built up a national following and his books sold widely. That income, more than $1 million, puts him in the top 1 percent of taxpayers. We’re also watching for campaign finance declarations from all the presidential candidates, including Pete Buttigieg, who joined the field over the weekend. Their deadline is midnight. _____ 5. At least 17 tornadoes ripped through Texas, Mississippi, Alabama and Ohio over the weekend, and powerful storms swept across the South to the Northeast. Nine people, including three children, were killed — though none, amazingly, in the flattened town of Franklin, Tex., above. By this morning, most of the severe weather was pushing off the East Coast. _____ 6. A New York miracle: The three people in the small plane above were spared a probably fatal crash on Sunday night — by getting tangled up in aboveground utility cables. The plane had run out of fuel above Long Island as it circled for a seventh attempt to land in thick fog. The three aboard, all men from Flushing, were uninjured, except, the police said, for a single sprained finger. ___ 7. One of our most-read articles today is about how some cities are considering using their relative stability in the face of climate change as a demographic lure. The mayor in Duluth, Minn., has been intrigued by the idea of becoming a climate refuge. “It’s not as cold as you think,” goes one possible slogan. Above, skiers on Lake Superior last month. Buffalo has floated the idea as well. Separately, there was sad news for bike-share riders who’ve come to love a power assist. Lyft-owned companies pulled their electric bikes from New York, San Francisco and Washington. Dozens of riders have reported injuries while riding, possibly because the front-wheel braking is too powerful. _____ 8. Triumphs in sport. In the Boston Marathon, Lawrence Cherono of Kenya, above left, beat Lelisa Desisa of Ethiopia to the men’s victory by just a stride, in 2:07:57, while Worknesh Degefa of Ethiopia ran away from the field of women, finishing in 2:23:31. In the push rim wheelchair competition, Daniel Romanchuk, a 20-year-old American, became the youngest winner, in 1:21:36. Manuela Schar of Switzerland won the women’s event for a second time, at 1:34:19. And the awe over Tiger Woods’s win at the Masters on Sunday is far from over — he’s joined the ranks of the greatest comebacks in sports history. _____ 9. Pulitzer Prizes:  The Sun Sentinel of South Florida won the prize for public service, the most prestigious of the annual awards for journalism, for its coverage of the deadly shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School. Above, the reaction in the newsroom. The Times celebrated two: one for the investigative team that unmasked the dubious tax schemes President Trump and his siblings used to avoid taxes on hundreds of millions of dollars from their father’s real estate empire; and one for editorial writing, for essays by Brent Staples that helped rewrite the history of race in America. Here’s the full list of winners. _____ 10. And finally, for your entertainment: Our television editor himself recapped Episode 1 of the final season of “Game of Thrones.” (Do we need to warn you? Spoilers!) Or let this thoughtful exploration of the attraction of animal videos give you permission to enjoy a few. Or skip right over to this epic face-off: bird versus cat. Have a delightful evening. Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern. And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here. What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.Supported by Yes, the women are making history. But the male candidates represent a historically diverse range of expressions of masculinity, and that’s good for everyone. By Richard Dorment Mr. Dorment is the editor in chief of Men’s Health. The 2020 presidential field is shaping up to have the most diverse group of candidates Americans have ever seen. That there’s a historic number of women leading the pack has been much discussed — and rightly so — along with just how “likable” these women may or may not be. Less discussed, however, has been the historically diverse group of men seeking the presidency, a motley crew of contenders that just got a bit motlier — Hi, Beto! — who could help redefine masculinity and power. Before you roll your eyes at the prospect of a male journalist interrupting this momentous time for female candidates to remind people that guys are running for president, too!, consider the current and would-be candidates. There’s Cory Booker, with his bear hugs and his celebrity girlfriend and his veganism. There’s Pete Buttigieg, with his military stripes and his schoolteacher husband.  There’s John Hickenlooper, whom this newspaper recently deemed Colorado’s “geek in chief,” and there’s Bernie Sanders, patron saint of the dirtbag left. There’s Mr. O’Rourke, who is avocado toast incarnate — wholesome, trendy, Insta-friendly — and in the still-maybe-but-probably column, there’s Joe Biden, who is closer to corned beef hash.  There are a bunch of others that you’ll have to Google, but the point is, that from woke bros to Cold Warriors, bridge builders to bomb throwers, we have never seen so many different expressions of manhood represented among the top-tier candidates — mostly because Americans have historically been interested in only one kind of man becoming their president. In their 1976 book, “The Forty-Nine Percent Majority: The Male Sex Role,” the social scientists Deborah S. David and Robert Brannon laid out the cornerstones of “our culture’s blueprint for manhood:” Be a Big Wheel; Be a Sturdy Oak; Give ’Em Hell; and No “Sissy Stuff” (quotation marks theirs). And that, for the longest time, was what it meant to be a normal American man.  It meant domination. It meant solidity. It meant taking risks and holding back tears, and as a result, most of the men who ran for president fit some version of that mold. Sure, we’d see differences in background and temperament — the war hero (Dwight Eisenhower) versus the egghead (Adlai Stevenson); the outsider (Bill Clinton) versus the insider (George H.W. Bush); the everyman (George W. Bush) versus the elitist (John Kerry) — but by and large, they were white, heterosexual Christian men in pleated khakis. But men today live lives vastly different from their fathers’. They’re less likely to marry and have children, and when they do, they spend a lot more time with those kids than their dads could’ve imagined. They spend more time cooking and cleaning, and worry about work-life balance and spiritual fulfillment.  They are more likely to cry openly, as John Boehner used to do all the time when he was the House speaker, and they are more likely to practice self-care, as Mr. Booker does with his regular mani-pedis. (His 2013 Senate opponent, Steve Lonegan, tried to make a thing of Mr. Booker’s nail-salon habit. “As a guy, I personally like being a guy,” Mr. Lonegan said. “I like a good Scotch and a cigar.” The thing didn’t become a thing: Mr. Booker won by 11 points.) They are more likely to say “Being a man is, first and foremost, being a good human” and that making masculinity about dominating others is “an old view,” as Barack Obama did last month. Politics has always been our national fun-house mirror, exaggerating the finer points of real life. And as our social concepts of masculinity have become more expansive and elastic, it was only a matter of time before our candidates began to break free from the Big Wheel model.  This liberation should be celebrated: To see men who embody less traditional models of manhood competing at the highest levels of civic life is good for everybody. (Not that there isn’t still a ways to go: Lots of gender expressions remain unlikely to fly in presidential campaigns.) It might even be good politics as well: In a Pew Research Center survey last summer, an overwhelming majority of Americans considered “aggressive” and “masculine” to be negative personality traits while “kind” and “responsible” were viewed positively. Which brings us to the current president.  “He is the almost cartoon of an alpha dog,” Glenn Beck said of President Trump recently. “And I think because we have taken alpha dogs and shot them all, when he comes to the table there’s a lot of guys that are out there going, ‘Damn right!’” Mr. Beck has a point, and we don’t need surveys to tell us that many voters, men as well as women, revel in Mr. Trump’s strongman persona and throwback masculinity. (No diaper changing for that guy!) But we also don’t need surveys to tell us that many voters think he’s a bully and a brute, and when they go to the polls — in the Democratic primaries or in the general election — they’re going to think about what kind of man, and what version of manhood, they might want to see in the White House.  Do we want a man who has threatened to rough up an opponent, as Mr. Biden has done with Mr. Trump? Do we want a man who talks constantly about love, like Mr. Booker? What about a man who promises to stand up to bullies, like Mr. Hickenlooper? So many options, so many possible outcomes. And in the end, voters just might say they don’t want any man in the White House at all. Richard Dorment is the editor in chief of Men’s Health. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

Supported by Yes, the women are making history. But the male candidates represent a historically diverse range of expressions of masculinity, and that’s good for everyone. By Richard Dorment Mr. Dorment is the editor in chief of Men’s Health. The 2020 presidential field is shaping up to have the most diverse group of candidates Americans have ever seen. That there’s a historic number of women leading the pack has been much discussed — and rightly so — along with just how “likable” these women may or may not be. Less discussed, however, has been the historically diverse group of men seeking the presidency, a motley crew of contenders that just got a bit motlier — Hi, Beto! — who could help redefine masculinity and power. Before you roll your eyes at the prospect of a male journalist interrupting this momentous time for female candidates to remind people that guys are running for president, too!, consider the current and would-be candidates. There’s Cory Booker, with his bear hugs and his celebrity girlfriend and his veganism. There’s Pete Buttigieg, with his military stripes and his schoolteacher husband.  There’s John Hickenlooper, whom this newspaper recently deemed Colorado’s “geek in chief,” and there’s Bernie Sanders, patron saint of the dirtbag left. There’s Mr. O’Rourke, who is avocado toast incarnate — wholesome, trendy, Insta-friendly — and in the still-maybe-but-probably column, there’s Joe Biden, who is closer to corned beef hash.  There are a bunch of others that you’ll have to Google, but the point is, that from woke bros to Cold Warriors, bridge builders to bomb throwers, we have never seen so many different expressions of manhood represented among the top-tier candidates — mostly because Americans have historically been interested in only one kind of man becoming their president. In their 1976 book, “The Forty-Nine Percent Majority: The Male Sex Role,” the social scientists Deborah S. David and Robert Brannon laid out the cornerstones of “our culture’s blueprint for manhood:” Be a Big Wheel; Be a Sturdy Oak; Give ’Em Hell; and No “Sissy Stuff” (quotation marks theirs). And that, for the longest time, was what it meant to be a normal American man.  It meant domination. It meant solidity. It meant taking risks and holding back tears, and as a result, most of the men who ran for president fit some version of that mold. Sure, we’d see differences in background and temperament — the war hero (Dwight Eisenhower) versus the egghead (Adlai Stevenson); the outsider (Bill Clinton) versus the insider (George H.W. Bush); the everyman (George W. Bush) versus the elitist (John Kerry) — but by and large, they were white, heterosexual Christian men in pleated khakis. But men today live lives vastly different from their fathers’. They’re less likely to marry and have children, and when they do, they spend a lot more time with those kids than their dads could’ve imagined. They spend more time cooking and cleaning, and worry about work-life balance and spiritual fulfillment.  They are more likely to cry openly, as John Boehner used to do all the time when he was the House speaker, and they are more likely to practice self-care, as Mr. Booker does with his regular mani-pedis. (His 2013 Senate opponent, Steve Lonegan, tried to make a thing of Mr. Booker’s nail-salon habit. “As a guy, I personally like being a guy,” Mr. Lonegan said. “I like a good Scotch and a cigar.” The thing didn’t become a thing: Mr. Booker won by 11 points.) They are more likely to say “Being a man is, first and foremost, being a good human” and that making masculinity about dominating others is “an old view,” as Barack Obama did last month. Politics has always been our national fun-house mirror, exaggerating the finer points of real life. And as our social concepts of masculinity have become more expansive and elastic, it was only a matter of time before our candidates began to break free from the Big Wheel model.  This liberation should be celebrated: To see men who embody less traditional models of manhood competing at the highest levels of civic life is good for everybody. (Not that there isn’t still a ways to go: Lots of gender expressions remain unlikely to fly in presidential campaigns.) It might even be good politics as well: In a Pew Research Center survey last summer, an overwhelming majority of Americans considered “aggressive” and “masculine” to be negative personality traits while “kind” and “responsible” were viewed positively. Which brings us to the current president.  “He is the almost cartoon of an alpha dog,” Glenn Beck said of President Trump recently. “And I think because we have taken alpha dogs and shot them all, when he comes to the table there’s a lot of guys that are out there going, ‘Damn right!’” Mr. Beck has a point, and we don’t need surveys to tell us that many voters, men as well as women, revel in Mr. Trump’s strongman persona and throwback masculinity. (No diaper changing for that guy!) But we also don’t need surveys to tell us that many voters think he’s a bully and a brute, and when they go to the polls — in the Democratic primaries or in the general election — they’re going to think about what kind of man, and what version of manhood, they might want to see in the White House.  Do we want a man who has threatened to rough up an opponent, as Mr. Biden has done with Mr. Trump? Do we want a man who talks constantly about love, like Mr. Booker? What about a man who promises to stand up to bullies, like Mr. Hickenlooper? So many options, so many possible outcomes. And in the end, voters just might say they don’t want any man in the White House at all. Richard Dorment is the editor in chief of Men’s Health. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.